source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5aab9b54fdaa6b4d43804400876a4b9b6a757f2990da7b9dc478e5b331e8dbda
pages: 551
ocr_pages: 17
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
November 3, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: November 3, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 875 7059 4534      Passcode: 742458
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
50th Anniversary of the San Mateo Garden Center — Proclamation
2.
United Against Hate — Proclamation
3.
World Town Planning Day — Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
4.
2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin) — Agreement
Award an agreement to Duke’s Root Control, Inc. for the 2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin)
project in an amount not to exceed $685,565.54; establish a contingency reserve of $70,000.00; and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
within the contingency reserve.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because root foaming for the City’s
sanitary sewer collection system consists of the operation, repair, or maintenance of existing public structures
involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
1 of 551

--- page 2 ---
5.
Decommissioned Plant Processes Cleaning Project — Agreement
Approve an agreement with Ancon Marine dba Ancon Services, for the cleaning of decommissioned tanks and
equipment at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $236,258.88; establish a $50,000 contingency
reserve; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency reserve.
CEQA: This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Digital Analyst Software — Agreement
Approve an agreement with Closure Intelligence, Inc., for a digital analyst software platform license for the San
Mateo Police Department for a three-year term in the cumulative amount of $150,000; and authorize the Chief
of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
7.
Grant Award Acceptance and Budget Appropriation – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $30,000 from the California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Law Enforcement Grant Program; authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement and all
other necessary grant documents; and appropriate $30,000 to the Police Department’s fiscal year 2025-26
budget.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
8.
Independent Audit Services — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to an Agreement with The Pun Group LLP for independent audit services to extend
the Agreement by one additional year; increase the compensation by $73,973, for a new total Agreement
amount of $422,543.68; and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form
provided.
CEQA: This independent audit services amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
9.
2025 Triennial Building Code Update — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23 “Buildings and Construction” to adopt the
2025 Building Standards Code by reference with local amendments; amend various sections of San Mateo
Municipal Code Title 23 “Buildings and Construction”; update procedural language and revise miscellaneous
sections; add Chapter 23.29 “Wildland-Urban Interface Code”.
CEQA: This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
10.
Establish the Civic Arts Committee as a Standing Commission – Ordinance Adoption
2 of 551

--- page 3 ---
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.22 and amend Chapter 23.60 to
change the “Civic Arts Committee” to the “Civic Arts Commission,” establish its powers and duties, implement
term limits and update the appointment process to align with other City boards and commissions; and amend
2.22.010 to provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members.
CEQA: This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
11.
Human Resources and Finance Department Request for Additional Positions – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to add one (1) Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Human Resources Analyst position and one (1) FTE
Payroll Technician I/II position.
CEQA: This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)​
12.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of the City Council on October 20, 2025.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
13.
Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Application — Informational
Receive an overview of the proposed project, receive public comments, and provide early feedback and direction
to the applicant and staff.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065). The level of environmental
review required for this project is still being assessed.)
NEW BUSINESS
14.
Economic Development Work Plan 2026-2029 — Adoption
Adopt Economic Development Work Plan 2026–2029.
3 of 551

--- page 4 ---
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
15.
City Council Priority List Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Progress Report
Receive a progress report on the City Council Priority List for Fiscal Year 2025-26 and provide any direction to staff
if any edits are desired.
CEQA: This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of
the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-
Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group
presentation, with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals
associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be
submitted to clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the
City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make
reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 551

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 25-10506
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin) — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to Duke’s Root Control, Inc. for the 2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin) project in an 
amount not to exceed $685,565.54; establish a contingency reserve of $70,000.00; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The City treats parts of its sanitary sewer collection system with a foam herbicide to control root intrusion as part of the 
Public Works Department’s Sewer System Management Plan. Root control is one of the methods the City uses to reduce 
sanitary sewer overflows caused by root blockages, required as part of the 2009 Cease and Desist Order issued by the 
Regional Water Quality Control Board. The project area limits are west of El Camino Real, south of State Route 92, and 
north of the border with Belmont. This project will treat approximately 343,000 linear feet of sanitary sewer pipe sizes 
between four and 30 inches in diameter. 
The City advertised this project on September 16, 2025, and bids were opened on October 7, 2025. One (1) bid was 
received, shown in the table below. The engineer’s estimate is $640,000.00. 
Company Name
Total Bid Amount
Duke’s Root Control, Inc.
$685,565.54
After a review of the bid documents submitted by Duke’s Root Control, Inc., staff determined that the bid is responsive 
and the bidder is responsible, and therefore recommends awarding the agreement to Duke’s Root Control, Inc.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Root Foaming Project (469933) for this agreement and the requested contingency 
reserve.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because root foaming for the City’s sanitary sewer 
collection system consists of the operation, repair, or maintenance of existing public structures involving negligible or no 
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
5 of 551

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Att 2 – Bid Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Zach Silverman, Assistant Engineer
zsilverman@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
Laura Webb, Senior Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Thomas Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
6 of 551

--- page 7 ---
Construction Contract
Page 1 of 9
Rev 1/24
AGREEMENT WITH DUKE’S ROOT CONTROL, INC.
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
2024-25 SANITARY SEWER ROOT FOAMING (SOUTH BASIN)
CITY PROJECT NO. 469933
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and DUKE’S ROOT CONTROL, a corporation, with offices at 400 E Airport Road, Suite E, Elgin, IL 
60123 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ____________________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction 
of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin) Project
CITY PROJECT NO. 469933
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of $685,565.54 in full 
payment for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the 
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015 
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to 
as the “contract documents”).
7 of 551

--- page 8 ---
Construction Contract
Page 2 of 9
Rev 1/24
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
8 of 551

--- page 9 ---
Construction Contract
Page 3 of 9
Rev 1/24
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of 
City’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty to 
indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by 
the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
9 of 551

--- page 10 ---
Construction Contract
Page 4 of 9
Rev 1/24
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa.
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo.
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.
10 of 551

--- page 11 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 1/24
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
11 of 551

--- page 12 ---
Construction Contract
Page 5 of 9
Rev 1/24
12 of 551

--- page 13 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and Duke’s Root 
Control, Inc. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first 
above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Matt Fishbune
Its Authorized Agent
President & CEO
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
13 of 551

--- page 14 ---
Construction Contract
Page 6 of 9
Rev 1/24
14 of 551

--- page 15 ---
Construction Contract
Page 7 of 9
Rev 1/24
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for x years thereafter, 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in 
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, 
representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily 
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit.  
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty 
provisions.
5. Surety Bonds as described below.
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions 
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by 
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance 
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity, 
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions 
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be 
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or 
Entity.
Other Insurance Provisions 
15 of 551

--- page 16 ---
Construction Contract
Page 8 of 9
Rev 1/24
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed 
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to 
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, 
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except with notice to the Entity.
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction 
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation 
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that 
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing 
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall 
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, 
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit, 
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the 
contract or the beginning of contract work.
2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5) 
years after completion of contract work. 
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form 
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must 
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion 
of contract work. 
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review. 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services 
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not 
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including 
mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
16 of 551

--- page 17 ---
Construction Contract
Page 9 of 9
Rev 1/24
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be 
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor, 
its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by 
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy 
endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.   
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance 
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at 
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1. Bid bond
2. Performance bond
3. Payment bond
4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If 
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 
10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, 
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with 
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, 
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
17 of 551

--- page 18 ---
ITEM
EST.
UNIT
TOTAL
UNIT
TOTAL
NO.
QTY.
UNIT
PRICE
COST
PRICE
COST
1
Mobilization
1
LS
$3,200.00
$3,200.00
$0.00
$0.00
2
Traffic Control
1
LS
$2,700.00
$2,700.00
$0.00
$0.00
3
Apply Root Foaming Product to 4" Sewer Line
1,202
LF
$1.70
$2,043.40
$1.87
$2,247.74
4
Apply Root Foaming Product to 6" Sewer Line
218,393
LF
$1.70
$371,268.10
$1.87
$408,394.91
5
Apply Root Foaming Product to 8" Sewer Line
87,515
LF
$1.70
$148,775.50
$1.87
$163,653.05
6
Apply Root Foaming Product to 10" Sewer Line
14,762
LF
$2.00
$29,524.00
$2.06
$30,409.72
7
Apply Root Foaming Product to 12" Sewer Line
2,369
LF
$2.10
$4,974.90
$2.24
$5,306.56
8
Apply Root Foaming Product to 15" Sewer Line
6,157
LF
$2.60
$16,008.20
$3.13
$19,271.41
9
Apply Root Foaming Product to 18"-30" Sewer Line
12,535
LF
$5.10
$63,928.50
$4.49
$56,282.15
$640,000.00
$685,565.54
c:
Thomas Williams, PM-CWP
BIDDERS
CITY PROJECT NO. 469933
BID OPENING: 10/07/2025         Council Award:  11/03/2025
BIDDER #1
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
2024-25 Sanitary Sewer Root Foaming (South Basin)
BID SUMMARY
Duke's Root Control, Inc.
ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
NOTE
TOTAL BID 
Page 1
2024-25 Root Foaming-BidResultsBreakdown
18 of 551

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10507
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Decommissioned Plant Processes Cleaning Project — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Ancon Marine dba Ancon Services, for the cleaning of decommissioned tanks and equipment 
at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $236,258.88; establish a $50,000 contingency reserve; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within 
the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The Decommissioned Plant Processes Cleaning Project (Project) is part of the Wastewater Treatment Plant’s plan to safely 
decommission obsolete tanks and equipment following completion of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and 
Expansion Project. The upgrade and expansion project consists of new liquid treatment process facilities and other plant 
upgrades to replace aging infrastructure and produce high-quality treated water that will protect human health and the 
environment. However, the project did not include the decommissioning of the processes and equipment being removed 
from service.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for the Project. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Bids was issued on July 3, 2025, to advertise the project. On July 17, 2025, the bid opening date, 
one (1) bid was received from Ancon Marine dba Ancon Services (Ancon) with a bid amount of $477,188, which exceeded 
treatment plant staff’s estimate by $327,188.
On September 15, 2025, the City Council rejected the sole bid received from Ancon and authorized the Director of Public 
Works to directly negotiate a potential contract with Ancon. These negotiations were successful and achieved a 50% cost 
reduction for the Project. Accordingly, staff recommends approving an agreement with Ancon in the amount of 
$236,258.88 and establishing a $50,000 contingency reserve to address any unknown issues that arise during the project.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Wastewater Treatment Plant’s operating budget to award this agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
19 of 551

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Decommissioned Plant Processes Cleaning Agreement                      
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Knox, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent
rknox@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7376
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
20 of 551

--- page 21 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 1 of 12
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH ANCON MARINE DBA ANCON SERVICES
FOR DECOMMISSIONED TANK AND EQUIPMENT CLEANING SERVICES
FOR 
THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and Ancon Marine (dba Ancon Services), a corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 
4808 E. 2nd Street, Benicia, CA 94510.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain tank and equipment cleaning services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these tank and equipment cleaning 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement. CONTRACTOR shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
21 of 551

--- page 22 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 2 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on upon execution of this 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount not 
to exceed $236,258.88, a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by 
reference.
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
22 of 551

--- page 23 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 3 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or employee 
of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s 
performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful 
misconduct. CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The 
CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
23 of 551

--- page 24 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 4 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is 
the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney 
fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
24 of 551

--- page 25 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 5 of 12
Rev 9/22
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Robert Knox
City of San Mateo
2050 Detroit Drive
San Mateo, CA 94404
To CONTRACTOR:
Ancon Services
Attn: Steve Rojas
4808 E. 2nd Street
Benicia, CA 94510
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
25 of 551

--- page 26 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/22
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
26 of 551

--- page 27 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/22
27 of 551

--- page 28 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and ANCON MARINE 
DBA ANCON SERVICES has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and 
year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Rhys Hardin
Its Authorized Agent
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Kris Palmerton
Vice-President of Operations
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
28 of 551

--- page 29 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/22
29 of 551

--- page 30 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 8 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
The contract scope of services includes:
Task 1: Influent Junction Box & Diversion Box Cleaning
The function of the Influent Junction Box (IJB) is to collect all incoming flows for measuring and sampling 
and divert the flow to selected primary clarifiers. Flow passes through a Parshall flume for measurement, 
then enters the Diversion Box and combines with the recycle stream from the WWTP Site Waste Station. 
Flow is then diverted to selected primary clarifiers by four adjustable weir gates. The weirs act as isolation 
and flow metering devices.
The IJB & DB cleaning shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
•
The removal of material, decanting, and then placing the material into bins.
•
The contractor will provide bins, 6 mil liners and all other supplies to contain and transport 
grit, rags, scum, and debris removed from the IJB & DB.
•
The contractor will cover the entire work area with 6 mil plastic and use sandbags, as 
necessary, to secure the plastic and contain any liquid.
•
The contractor will dewater the bins prior to transportation.
•
The contractor will haul and dispose of all material in accordance with regulations set forth 
by the State of California.
Task 2 – Primary Clarifier & Scum Pit Cleaning
The purpose of primary clarification is to remove solids from liquids by sedimentation, remove scum from 
liquid by floatation, and thicken solids for removal and further treatment. The WWTP employs four 
primary clarifiers of differing size to meet its treatment goals.
Primary clarifier cleaning shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
•
The removal of material, decanting, and then placing the material into bins.
•
The cleaning of all clarifier’s interior surfaces and mechanical equipment.
•
The contractor will provide bins, 6 mil liners and all other supplies to contain and transport 
grit, rags, scum, and debris removed from each primary clarifier.
•
The contractor will dewater the bins prior to transportation.
•
The contractor will haul and dispose of all material in accordance with regulations set forth 
by the State of California.
Task 3 – Vacuum & Hydro Jetting Sewer Lines
Raw wastewater is conveyed to the WQCP through five separate force mains which converge at the IJB. 
Additional pipelines carry wastewater and sludge throughout the plant. All lines to be decommissioned 
will require thorough cleaning.
Sewer line cleaning shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
•
Hydro jetting to clear debris and scour sewer lines.
•
The removal of material, decanting, and then placing the material into bins.
30 of 551

--- page 31 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/22
•
The contractor will provide bins, 6 mil liners and all other supplies to contain and transport 
grit, rags, scum, and debris removed from each primary clarifier.
•
The contractor will dewater the bins prior to transportation.
•
The contractor will haul and dispose of all material in accordance with regulations set forth 
by the State of California.
Additional Tasks
The City may request, and the Contractor shall agree to perform, additional services on a time-and-materials 
basis.
31 of 551

--- page 32 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/22
32 of 551

--- page 33 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 10 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Schedule: 
Start Date: TBD 
Task 1: IJB - 9 days and removing 22 tons of material. 
Task 2: Clarifier and scum pits - 10 days and removing 14 tons of material. 
Task 3: Line cleaning - 3 days 4 tons of material. 
End Date: Approximately 22 Cleaning days after start date. 
All necessary equipment, materials, supplies, and PPE to complete the projects in a safe manner.
Pricing:
1
Influent Junction Box & Diversion Box Cleaning
$96,280.16
2
Primary Clarifier & Scum Pit Cleaning
$101,435.88
3
Vacuum & Hydro Jetting Sewer Lines
$23,599.84
Subtotal
$221,315.88
Transportation
$7,200.00
Disposal
$7,743.00
TOTAL
$236,258.88
Contingencies and Clarifications: 
•
Work was estimated at current time and material prevailing wage rates.
•
If additional time is needed for any task it will be billed at the current T & M Rates provided.
•
Disposal is based on a total of 40 tons for all 3 task.
•
Ancon will utilize 4 dewatering boxes on site for the duration of the project.
•
City to provide a dewatering area directly to a drain for dewatering purposes.
•
IJB, Clarifiers and Scum Pits to be drained as much as possible prior to our cleaning processes.
•
A pre job walk will be required prior to start date when start date is available.
•
All pricing is based on the schedule above.
•
IJB, 9 days and removing 22 tons of material.
•
Clarifier and scum pits 10 days and removing 14 tons of material.
•
Line cleaning 3 days 4 tons of material. 
33 of 551

--- page 34 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 11 of 12
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 
forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City of 
San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
34 of 551

--- page 35 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 12 of 12
Rev 9/22
Contractor hereby grants to the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District a 
waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor may acquire against the City by 
virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
35 of 551

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 20-5154
File ID: 25-10522
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Digital Analyst Software — Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Closure Intelligence, Inc., for a digital analyst software platform license for the San Mateo 
Police Department for a three-year term in the cumulative amount of $150,000; and authorize the Chief of Police to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Police Department continues to seek innovative tools that enhance investigative capabilities, improve digital evidence 
analysis, and strengthen public safety outcomes. Increasingly, law enforcement investigations rely on large volumes of 
digital data from multiple sources such as cellular devices, cloud storage, social media, and other electronic records.  
Traditional manual analysis of digital evidence is time-intensive and may cause delay in case Resolution. Closure 
Intelligence offers a digital analyst software platform designed specifically for law enforcement agencies to accelerate 
investigations, automate data correlation, and identify patterns and connections across multiple data sets. The Police 
Department wishes to purchase a subscription to this comprehensive software program.
The Closure product provides advanced analytical tools which will assist investigators in:
•
Consolidating data from a wide variety of datatypes and various digital sources across 13 languages into a unified, 
searchable interface.
•
Automating link analysis, timelines, and relationship mapping between individuals, devices, and locations.
•
Enhancing case collaboration among detectives, analysts, and partner agencies.
•
Improving efficiency and accuracy in complex investigations involving electronic evidence.
The platform’s features will enable the Police Department to increase investigative efficiency in quickly identifying relevant 
evidence, reducing case backlogs, and support data-driven policing strategies. The platform's secure and multilingual 
capabilities are designed to streamline workflows and reduce manual effort, making it particularly valuable for agencies 
dealing with high data volumes and language barriers. Closure Intelligence is compliant with Criminal Justice Information 
Services (CJIS) requirements, which is essential for protecting sensitive criminal justice information while ensuring national 
security and safeguarding civil liberties. The technology is already in use by several local law enforcement agencies 
including the San Mateo County District Attorney’s Office. 
Staff recommends entering into an agreement with Closure Intelligence for a three-year term. The cost for the Digital 
Analyst Platform is $50,000 annually, reflecting a significant discount due to the multi-year commitment. The proposed 
agreement provides the Police Department with access to the Digital Analyst Platform including software licensing, 
technical support, and ongoing system updates for the duration of the term. 
36 of 551

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Police Department will utilize Asset Forfeiture funds for this purchase. There are sufficient funds to cover the cost of 
this agreement, resulting in no impact on the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Jen Maravillas, Captain
jmaravillas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7633
Matt Earnshaw, Lieutenant
mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7627
37 of 551

--- page 38 ---
CLOSURE INTELLIGENCE 
ORDER FORM 
 
CUSTOMER NAME:                   San Mateo Police Department                                         (“Customer”) 
 
OFFER VALID THROUGH:         
 
  
 
This Order Form (“Order Form”) is subject to terms of the Platform Services Agreement between Customer and Closure 
Intelligence, Inc. (“Closure”) dated _____________ (the “Services Agreement”).  Capitalized terms used but not defined in 
this Order Form will have the meanings assigned to them in the Services Agreement. 
 
 
Customer Order Contact:  
Contact Name: 
Matthew Earnshaw 
Contact Email: 
mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo.org  
Contact Phone: 
650-522-7627 
 
 
Billing Information: 
 
 
 
 
SERVICES  
Please select and initial one of the following Subscription Term options for the Closure Intelligence Platform License. 
 
Service 
 
Annual Price 
 
 
Subscription Term 
 
Total Value  
Over Term 
 
Closure Intelligence Platform: License 
● 
 Option 1  
 
Initials _________ 
  $65,000     $130,000 
 1 Year 
  $65,000     $130,000 
● 
 Option 2 
 
Initials _________ 
  $57,500     $115,000 
 2 Years 
  $57,500     $230,000 
● 
 Option 3 
 
Initials _________ 
  $50,000     $100,000 
 3 Years 
  $150,000   $300,000  
Implementation & Configuration Services 
  $0              $100,000  
N/A 
N/A 
 
 
NOTES 
 
● 
Payment 
o 
Discounts reflect Customer’s early Design Partner Status. Renewals of this Order Form after the first 
Subscription Term will be subject to Closure’s then-current price for the Service. 
Contact Name: 
Alexa Newton 
Billing Address: 
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Billing Email: 
anewton@cityofsanmateo.org 
38 of 551

--- page 39 ---
o 
The pricing in this Order Form only applies during the Order Form Term.  
o 
The fees set forth in this Order Form do not include any amounts that might be charged to Customer or 
Closure by Customer’s other vendors and services providers (e.g., API usage fees for an integrated 
service) or any amounts that might be incurred by Closure in connection with meeting any additional 
Customer requirements or providing any services or resources not expressly set forth in the Agreement 
(e.g., additional insurance coverage) (collectively, all such amounts, “Additional Charges”).  
o 
During the Subscription Term, Services shall include twenty-five thousand (25,000) hours of audio 
and/or video per year, and seven-hundred-fifty thousand (750,000) PDF pages per year.  
o 
Should Customer exceed these allotments, the excess shall be charged at a rate of two dollars ($2) per 
hour of audio and/or video and two cents ($0.02) per PDF page.  
o 
Closure shall notify Customer in writing (which may include email) when Customer reaches fifty 
percent (50%) of either allotment, and again upon eighty percent (80%) of either allotment, and again 
upon full usage of any included allotment. Customer shall not be obligated to pay any overage charges 
incurred prior to the delivery of the applicable notices. 
o 
All executed Order Forms are non-cancelable. All payments are non-cancelable and non-refundable 
except as expressly provided for the Trial Period in Section 8.5 of the Services Agreement or as otherwise 
expressly provided in this Order Form or the Services Agreement. 
 
● 
Other Terms: 
o 
By signing this Order Form, Customer orders from Closure the Services described in this Order Form. 
o 
In the event of a conflict between this Order Form, as executed by Customer and Closure, and a 
provision of the Services Agreement, the Services Agreement will control. Any changes made to this 
Order Form other than the execution of the signature block will be null and void and of no effect. No 
terms, provisions, or conditions of any purchase order will have any effect on the obligations of the 
parties under or otherwise modify this Order Form or the Services Agreement. 
o 
This Order Form is effective as of the date of last signature below (the “Order Effective Date”). 
 
 
 
 
Customer 
By:  
 
 Ed Barberini 
 
(Print Name)  
Title: Chief of Police 
 
Date:  
 
 
Closure Intelligence, Inc. 
By:  
 
 Aaron Zelinger 
 
(Print Name)  
Title: Chief Executive Officer 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 of 551

--- page 40 ---
Closure Intelligence, Inc. 
Platform Services Agreement 
 
This Platform Services Agreement (together with all Orders, the “Agreement”) is between Closure Intelligence, Inc. 
(“Closure”) and the City of San Mateo (“Customer”) and is effective as of                    (the “Effective Date”). This Agreement 
allows Customer and its Affiliates to purchase access to certain of Closure’s services as specified under one or more Orders. 
Certain capitalized terms are defined in Exhibit A and others are defined contextually in this Agreement. 
 
Agreed as of the Effective Date by each party’s authorized representative: 
 
 
Customer 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Closure 
169 Madison Ave 
STE 15345 
New York, NY 10016 
 
  
 
Signature 
 
 
Ed Barberini 
 
Print Name 
 
Chief of Police 
 
Title 
 
Primary Contact: 
Email: mearnshaw@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
Aaron Zelinger 
 
Print Name 
 
Chief Executive Officer  
 
Title 
 
Primary Contact: 
Email: aaron@closure-intel.com 
 
 
 
1. 
Services. Services can be purchased pursuant to Orders. During a Subscription Term, Customer may access and use 
the Services only for its internal purposes in accordance with the Documentation, this Agreement, and any limitations set 
forth in the applicable Order. Closure may, in its sole discretion, charge Customer for excess use at Closure’s then-current 
overage rates. 
2. 
Data.  
2.1. 
Use of Customer Data. Customer grants Closure the non-exclusive, worldwide, sublicensable right to use, 
copy, store, disclose, transmit, transfer, publicly display, modify, and create derivative works from Customer Data 
only as necessary to: (a) provide the Services; (b) derive or generate Product Data; (c) create and compile Aggregated 
Data; and (d) as otherwise required by Laws or as agreed to in writing between the parties. Customer agrees and 
acknowledges that Closure may also Process log-in credentials and related information of Users in connection with 
Closure’s provision of the Services. 
2.2. 
Product Data; Aggregated Data. Closure may Process Product Data and Aggregated Data for internal 
business purposes, such as to improve, support, develop, and maintain its current and future technology, products, 
and services, including to test and improve its models and algorithms.  
2.3. 
Third-Party Data. Any Third-Party Data that Closure may provide via the Services is governed by the 
third-party providers’ policies. Closure may choose to terminate the provision of any Third-Party Data if Closure’s 
rights to such Third-Party Data change. 
3. 
Customer Obligations.  
3.1. 
General. Customer is solely responsible for its Customer Data and will provide and maintain its Customer 
40 of 551

--- page 41 ---
Systems.  Customer represents and warrants that: (a) it has all rights necessary for Closure to integrate the Services 
with Customer’s systems, databases, Customer Data, and applicable Third-Party Data and Third-Party Platforms; (b) 
it has made all disclosures, provided all notices, and obtained all rights, consents, and permissions necessary for 
Closure to collect, access, use, disclose, transfer, transmit, store, host, or otherwise Process Customer Data as set forth 
in this Agreement; and (c) Customer will ensure that its Users do not share log-in credentials (including between 
Users) for the Services.  Customer will comply with Laws when using the Services and is responsible for its Users’ 
compliance with this Agreement and all actions taken through their log-in credentials. 
3.2. 
Illegal Content. Closure recognizes that Customer is a law enforcement agency and that Customer will use 
the Services exclusively for authorized law enforcement purposes.  In that context, Closure understands that 
Customer may, in its official capacity, use the Services in connection with law enforcement investigations related to 
illegal content (“Illegal Content”), including without limitation child pornography and child sexual assault materials. 
Without limiting the generality of Customer’s obligations set forth in Section 3.1, Customer agrees that with respect 
to any Customer Data that is, or includes, Illegal Content, (a) Customer, and not Closure, is the exclusive owner, 
controller, and sole possessor of such Illegal Content; (b) to the extent that Closure receives any Illegal Content from, 
or Processes any Illegal Content on behalf of, Customer, Closure is acting exclusively at the direction of Customer as 
Customer’s agent; (c) Customer is solely responsible for, and holds Closure harmless with respect to, all requirements 
under Law related to or arising from the use, possession, storage, or other Processing of such Illegal Content, including 
without limitation all reporting and notification requirements related thereto. 
3.3. 
CJIS Requirements. For any CJIS Data, Customer will comply with the following CJIS requirements: (a) 
Customer agrees to use training, policy and procedures to ensure Users use proper handling, processing, storing and 
communication protocols for Customer Data and Third-Party Data; (b) Customer agrees to protect the Services and 
all Third-Party Data, in each case, by monitoring and auditing staff user activity to ensure that it is only within the 
purview of system application development, system maintenance and the support roles assigned; (c) Customer will 
only provide access to the Services and any Third-Party Data through Customer-managed role-based access and 
applied sharing rules configured by Customer; (d) Customer agrees to create and retain activity transaction logs to 
enable auditing by Closure staff, CJIS, and any Third-Party Data owners; (e) Customer agrees to perform independent 
employment background screening for its staff at Customer’s own expense; and (f) Customer agrees to reinforce staff 
policies for creating User accounts with only one Customer domain email address for each User, with exceptions only 
as granted in writing by Closure. 
4. 
Third-Party Platforms. Use of any Third-Party Platforms integrated into, or otherwise provided or used in 
connection with, the Services are subject to Customer’s agreement with the relevant provider. Closure is not responsible 
for, does not control, and has no liability for Third-Party Platforms or their respective providers. By enabling a Third-Party 
Platform to interact with the Services, Customer authorizes Closure to access and exchange Customer Data with such Third-
Party Platform on Customer’s behalf.  
5. 
Commercial Terms. 
5.1. 
Subscription Term. Except as set forth in an Order, each Subscription Term will automatically renew for 
successive 12-month periods unless either party gives the other party notice of non-renewal at least 90 days before 
the current Subscription Term ends.  
5.2. 
Fees and Taxes. Fees for the Services are described in each Order (“Fees”).  Fees are invoiced as described 
on the schedule in the Order. Unless the Order provides otherwise, all Fees are due within 30 days of the invoice 
date. Fees for renewal Subscription Terms are at Closure’s then-current rates, regardless of any discounted pricing in 
any Order. Late payments are subject to a service charge of 1.5% per month or the maximum amount allowed by 
Law, whichever is less. Customer is responsible for any sales, use, GST, value-added, withholding, or similar taxes or 
levies that apply to Orders, whether domestic or foreign, other than Closure’s income tax (“Taxes”). All Fees are 
exclusive of Taxes and are non-refundable.  
6. 
Restrictions. Customer will not (and will not permit anyone else to) do any of the following: (a) provide access to 
a Service to a third party (other than Users for use in accordance with this Agreement); (b) use any Service on behalf of, or 
to provide any product or service to, third parties; (c) use any Service to develop a similar product or service; (d) reverse 
engineer, decompile, disassemble, or seek to access the source code or non-public APIs to any Service, except to the extent 
41 of 551

--- page 42 ---
such a restriction is expressly prohibited by Law (and then only with prior notice to Closure); (e) modify or create derivative 
works of any Service or copy any element of any Service; (f) remove or obscure any proprietary notices in any Service; (g) 
publish benchmarks or performance information about any Service; (h) interfere with the operation of any Service, 
circumvent any access restrictions, or conduct any security or vulnerability test of any Service; (i) take any action that risks 
harm to others or to the security, availability, or integrity of any Service; (j) access or use any Service for any fraudulent 
activities or in any manner that violates any Law; or (k) send, store, input, upload, submit, transmit, or otherwise provide 
any viruses or any infringing, unlawful, or injurious materials to or in connection with the Services.  
7. 
Disclaimers. 
7.1. 
General.  The Services are provided “AS IS”. Closure, on its own behalf and on behalf of its suppliers and 
licensors, makes no other warranties, whether express, implied, statutory, or otherwise, including warranties of 
merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, or noninfringement. Closure does not warrant that Customer’s 
use of the Services will be uninterrupted or error-free, that Closure will review Customer Data for accuracy, or that 
it will maintain Customer Data without loss. Closure is not liable for (a) delays, failures, or problems inherent in use 
of the Internet and electronic communications or other systems outside Closure’s control; (b) any decisions, actions, 
or omissions that Customer or any Users make as a result of using the Services or any Reports obtained or accessed 
via the Services or in connection with use of the Services; (c) any Third-Party Data or Third-Party Platform; (d) any 
trial, beta, or other evaluation products or services; (e) any Service suspension.  
7.2. 
Service Output.  Customer is solely responsible for (a) reviewing all Reports to determine they are accurate 
and suitable for Customer’s intended use and (b) Customer and Users’ use of the Services and any Reports, results, or 
other materials thereof or derived therefrom.  Customer acknowledges and agrees that (i) there may be errors, 
inconsistencies, or inaccuracies in Reports and Service Output for various reasons (including the quality of the input 
from which it is derived from and the inherent technical limitations and probabilistic nature of the technology used 
in connection with the Services); (ii) due to the nature of the Services, Service Output may not be unique, novel, 
exclusive, or otherwise specific to Customer or Users and Customer and other users of the Services may receive 
similar output via the Services; (iii) the Service Output or any part thereof may be owned or controlled by a third 
party, or otherwise protected or protectable by intellectual property or other proprietary rights; (iv) Customer may 
not have any right or license to use or otherwise exploit the Service Output; (v) Customer may not be able to secure 
or obtain, in any jurisdiction, any right in the output or any patents or other intellectual property rights relating to 
the Service Output; and (vi) Service Output may have applicability or otherwise be relevant to other users of the 
Services.  Closure does not represent or warrant that the Service Output will be accurate, reliable, free from errors 
or other defects, and Closure is not and will not be liable for any Service Output or Customer’s use of any Service 
Output.  Customer is and will be solely liable for any reliance placed on any Service Output.   
8. 
Term and Termination. 
8.1. 
Term; Termination. The term of this Agreement (the “Term”) starts on the Effective Date and continues 
until expiration or termination of all Orders. Either party may terminate this Agreement (including any or all Orders) 
if the other party fails to cure a material breach of this Agreement (including a failure to pay fees) within 30 days 
after notice. Without limitation to such rights or remedies as Customer shall otherwise have by law, if the Order 
specifies a three-year term, Customer shall have the right to terminate this agreement after the first year of the Term 
by providing written notice of termination at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the Effective Date, after 
which Customer will have no further payment obligations for subsequent years.    
8.2. 
For Non-Appropriation. Customer’s obligation to pay any amounts due for those fiscal periods succeeding 
the current fiscal period are contingent upon appropriation or approval of funds for that purpose.  If such funds 
become unavailable, then Customer may elect to terminate this Agreement by giving written notice of termination 
to Closure effective immediately or on such other date as Customer specifies in the notice.  In such an event, the 
Customer shall have no further liability to pay any funds to Closure or to furnish any other consideration under this 
Agreement, and Closure shall not be obligated to perform any provisions of this Agreement or to provide services 
intended to be funded pursuant to this Agreement.  If partial funds are appropriated or provided, Customer shall have 
the option to either terminate this Agreement with no liability to the Customer or offer an amendment to the Closure 
to reflect the reduced amount. 
42 of 551

--- page 43 ---
8.3. 
Mutual Consent. Services under this Agreement may be terminated by mutual written consent of the 
parties (email acceptable). 
8.4. 
Effect of Termination. Upon expiration or termination of an Order, Customer’s access to and Closure’s 
obligations to provide the Services described in the Order will cease. Closure will be under no obligation to store or 
retain any Customer Data and may delete the applicable Customer Data at any time in its sole discretion. Customer 
Data and other Confidential Information, as defined in Section 11, may be retained in Recipient’s standard backups 
notwithstanding any obligation to delete the applicable Confidential Information but will remain subject to this 
Agreement’s confidentiality restrictions. 
8.5. 
Survival. These Sections survive expiration or termination of this Agreement: 2.2 (Product Data; 
Aggregated Data), 3 (Customer Obligations), 4 (Third-Party Platforms); 5.2 (Fees and Taxes), 6 (Restrictions), 
7 (Disclaimers), 8.2 (Effect of Termination), 8.3 (Survival), 9 (Ownership), 10 (Limitations of Liability), 
11 (Confidentiality), 12 (Required Disclosures), 14 (General Terms), and Exhibit A (Definitions). Except where an 
exclusive remedy is provided in this Agreement, exercising a remedy under this Agreement, including termination, 
does not limit other remedies a party may have.  
8.6. 
Suspension. Closure may immediately suspend or terminate Customer’s access to any or all of the Services 
if: (a) Customer breaches this Agreement; (b) Closure’s provision of any Service is prohibited or otherwise adversely 
affected by Laws or changes to Laws; (c) Customer’s actions risk harm to any of Closure’s other customers or the 
security, availability, or integrity of a Service; (d) Closure reasonably determines that there is a threat or potential 
threat or attack or potential attack on any Service; (e) any vendor suspends or terminates Closure’s access to or use of 
any products or services required for the Service; or (f) Customer’s Service usage substantially exceeds normal usage 
levels.  
8.7. 
Trial Period Termination. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 5.2 or the Order Form, 
Customer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement and any associated Order Form for convenience within 
forty five (45) days following the Order Effective Date (the "Trial Period"). To exercise this right, Customer must 
provide written notice of termination to Closure within the Trial Period. Upon such termination, Closure shall refund 
to Customer any Fees paid by Customer to Closure under the applicable Order Form for the terminated Services. The 
provisions of Section 8.2 (Effect of Termination) and Section 8.3 (Survival) shall apply to the extent consistent with 
this Section 8.5. 
9. 
Ownership. Neither party grants the other any rights or licenses not expressly set out in this Agreement. Except as 
expressly provided in this Agreement, as between the parties, Customer retains all intellectual property rights and other 
rights in Customer Data. Except for Customer’s use rights in this Agreement, Closure and its licensors retain all intellectual 
property rights and other rights in and to (a) the Services; (b) any work product or results of the provision, operation, or 
maintenance of the Services; (c) all Documentation, Product Data, and Aggregated Data; (d) all Closure technology, 
templates, algorithms, formats, and dashboards; (e) all general skills, know-how, processes, methodologies, tools, 
techniques, routines, or technologies, in each case, that are created, adapted or used by Closure in its business generally; 
and (f) all modifications or improvements to any of the foregoing items set forth in subsections (a) through (e) made by or 
on behalf of Closure. If Customer provides Closure with feedback or suggestions regarding the Services or other Closure 
offerings, Closure may use the feedback or suggestions without restriction or obligation.   
10. 
Limitations of Liability. Closure, its successors, assigns, Affiliates, and each of their suppliers, licensors, employees, 
officers, and agents, will not have any liability arising out of or related to this Agreement for (a) any loss of use, lost data, 
lost profits, failure of security mechanisms, interruption of business, or any indirect, special, incidental, reliance, or 
consequential damages of any kind, even if informed of their possibility in advance or (b) any amounts that exceed, in 
aggregate, the amounts paid or payable by Customer to Closure pursuant to this Agreement during the 6 months prior to 
the date on which the applicable claim giving rise to the liability arose under this Agreement.  The waivers and limitations 
in this Section 10 apply regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability or 
otherwise and will survive and apply even if any limited remedy in this Agreement fails of its essential purpose. 
11. 
Confidentiality.  
43 of 551

--- page 44 ---
11.1. 
Definition. “Confidential Information” means information disclosed to the receiving party (“Recipient”) 
under this Agreement that is designated by the disclosing party (“Discloser”) as proprietary or confidential or that 
should be reasonably understood to be proprietary or confidential due to its nature and the circumstances of its 
disclosure. Closure’s Confidential Information includes any technical or performance information about the Services. 
Customer’s Confidential Information includes Customer Data.  
11.2. 
Obligations. As Recipient, each party will: (a) hold Confidential Information in confidence and not disclose 
it to third parties except as expressly permitted in this Agreement, including Section 2.1 (Use of Customer Data); and 
(b) only use Confidential Information to fulfill its obligations and exercise its rights expressly set forth in this 
Agreement. At Discloser’s request, Recipient will delete all Confidential Information, except, in the case where 
Closure is the Recipient, Closure may retain the Customer’s Confidential Information to the extent required to 
continue to provide the Services. Recipient may disclose Confidential Information to its employees, agents, 
contractors, and other representatives having a legitimate need to know (including, for Closure, the subcontractors 
referenced in Section 14.11), provided it remains responsible for their compliance with this Section 11 and they are 
bound to confidentiality obligations no less protective than this Section 11. 
11.3. 
Exclusions. These confidentiality obligations do not apply to information that Recipient can document: (a) 
is or becomes public knowledge through no fault of the receiving party; (b) it rightfully knew or possessed prior to 
receipt under this Agreement; (c) it rightfully received from a third party without breach of confidentiality 
obligations; or (d) it independently developed without using Confidential Information.  
11.4. 
Remedies. Unauthorized use or disclosure of Confidential Information may cause substantial harm for 
which damages alone are an insufficient remedy. Each party may seek appropriate equitable relief, in addition to 
other available remedies, for breach or threatened breach of this Section 11. 
12. 
Required Disclosures. Nothing in this Agreement prohibits either party from making disclosures, including of 
Customer Data and other Confidential Information, if required by Law, subpoena, or court order, provided (if permitted by 
Law) it notifies the other party in advance and cooperates in any effort to obtain confidential treatment. 
13. 
Publicity. Neither party may publicly announce that the parties have entered into this Agreement, except with the 
other party’s prior consent or as required by Laws. However, Closure may include Customer and its trademarks in Closure’s 
customer lists and promotional materials but will cease further use at Customer’s written request.  
14. 
General Terms. 
14.1. 
Assignment. Neither party may assign this Agreement without the prior consent of the other party, except 
that either party may assign this Agreement to a successor to all or substantially all of its business or assets to which 
this Agreement relates (including in connection with a merger, reorganization, acquisition, or other transfer of all or 
substantially all its assets or voting securities). Any non-permitted assignment is void. This Agreement will bind and 
inure to the benefit of each party’s permitted successors and assigns. 
14.2. 
Governing Law; Arbitration.   This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, 
in the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
14.3. 
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. CUSTOMER AND CLOSURE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE, TO THE 
FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING 
OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STATUTE, TORT (SUCH AS NEGLIGENCE), OR 
OTHERWISE) RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT. 
14.4. 
Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. The prevailing party in any action to enforce this Agreement will be entitled 
to recover its attorneys’ fees and costs in connection with such action. 
14.5. 
Notices. Except as set out in this Agreement, any notice or consent under this Agreement must be in 
writing to the addresses on the first page and will be deemed given: (a) upon receipt if by personal delivery; (b) upon 
receipt if by certified or registered U.S. mail (return receipt requested); (c) one day after dispatch if by a commercial 
overnight delivery service; or (d) upon confirmation of receipt by email to the email address set forth for the party 
on the signature block of this Agreement or, if no confirmation has been received, one business day after the date of 
sending. Either party may update its address with notice to the other party. Closure may also send operational notices 
44 of 551

--- page 45 ---
to Customer through the Services.  
14.6. 
Entire Agreement. This Agreement (which includes all Orders) is the parties’ entire agreement regarding 
its subject matter and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous agreements regarding its subject matter. In this 
Agreement, headings are for convenience only and “including” and similar terms are to be construed without 
limitation. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (including electronic copies and PDFs), each of which 
is deemed an original and which together form one and the same agreement. 
14.7. 
Amendments. Any amendments, modifications, or supplements to this Agreement must be in writing and 
signed by each party’s authorized representatives or, as appropriate, agreed through electronic means provided by 
Closure. The terms in any Customer purchase order or business form will not amend or modify this Agreement and 
are expressly rejected by Closure; any of these Customer documents are for administrative purposes only and have 
no legal effect. 
14.8. 
Waivers and Severability. Waivers must be signed by the waiving party’s authorized representative and 
cannot be implied from conduct. If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, it will 
be limited to the minimum extent necessary so the rest of this Agreement remains in effect. 
14.9. 
Government Terms. Elements of the Services are commercial computer software. If the user or licensee of 
the Services is an agency, department, or other entity of the United States Government, the use, duplication, 
reproduction, release, modification, disclosure, or transfer of the Services or any related documentation of any kind, 
including technical data and manuals, is restricted by the terms of this Agreement in accordance with Federal 
Acquisition Regulation 12.212 for civilian purposes and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
227.7202 for military purposes. The Services were developed fully at private expense. All other use is prohibited.  
14.10. 
Force Majeure. Neither party is liable for any delay or failure to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement (except for a failure to pay fees) due to events beyond its reasonable control, such as a strike, blockade, 
war, pandemic, act of terrorism, riot, Internet or utility failures, refusal of government license, or natural disaster. 
14.11. 
Subcontractors. Closure may use subcontractors and permit them to exercise Closure’s rights, but Closure 
remains responsible for their compliance with this Agreement and for its overall performance under this Agreement. 
14.12. 
Independent Contractors. The parties are independent contractors, partners, or joint venturers. 
14.13. 
Conflicts in Interpretation. If there are inconsistencies or conflicts between the terms of the body of this 
Agreement and the terms of any schedules, exhibits, attachments, addenda, policies, and other documents attached 
to or incorporated by reference in this Agreement, the order of precedence is as follows: (a) the terms contained in 
the body of this Agreement; (b) the terms of the schedules, exhibits, attachments, addenda, and policies to this 
Agreement; 
and 
(c) 
the 
Documentation. 
14.14. 
Insurance. Closure shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in 
Exhibit B to this Agreement.   
 
 
 
45 of 551

--- page 46 ---
Exhibit A 
Definitions 
 
1.1. 
“Affiliate” means an entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by a party, where “ownership” means the 
beneficial ownership of 50% or more of an entity’s voting equity securities or other equivalent voting interests and “control” 
means the power to direct the management or affairs of an entity.  
1.2. 
“Aggregated Data” means Customer Data that has been deidentified or aggregated with other data such that the 
resulting data no longer reasonably identifies Customer or a specific individual.  
1.3. 
“CJIS Data” means Customer Data that is subject to the requirements of the CJIS Security Policy set forth by the U.S. 
Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Criminal Justice Information Services Division. 
1.4. 
“Criminal Justice Information Services Division” or “CJIS” means the FBI division responsible for the collection, 
warehousing, and timely dissemination of relevant criminal justice information to the FBI and to qualified law enforcement, 
criminal justice, civilian, academic, employment and licensing agencies. 
1.5. 
“Customer Data” means any data or information that: (a) Customer (including its Users) submits to the Services, 
including from Third-Party Platforms; and (b) is Processed by Closure to provide the Services to Customer. 
1.6. 
“Customer Systems” means Customer’s hardware, software, other technology, and infrastructure that Customer is 
required to provide and maintain in order for Customer to access and use the Services. 
1.7. 
“Documentation” means the then-current version of Closure’s usage guidelines and standard technical 
documentation for the Services that Closure makes generally available to its customers of the applicable Services. 
1.8. 
“Laws” means all applicable relevant local, state, federal and international laws, regulations and conventions, 
including those related to data privacy and data transfer, international communications, and export of data. 
1.9. 
“Order” means an order form that describes the Services being purchased by Customer that is executed by the parties 
and references this Agreement. 
1.10. “Process” or “Processed” means to collect, access, use, disclose, transfer, transmit, store, host, or otherwise process. 
1.11. “Product Data” means information generated from the use of the Services, which data does not identify Users, any 
other natural human persons, or Customer, such as technical logs, data, and learnings about Customer’s use of the Services, 
but excluding any identifiable Customer Data.  
1.12. “Report” means any information, reports, outputs, or other materials obtained or accessed via, or provided by the 
Services, including Service Output. 
1.13. “Service” or “Services” means the then-current version of Closure’s proprietary platform and other Services that are 
identified in the relevant Order.  
1.14. “Service Output” means any data, text, software, audio, video, images, content, computational results, predictions, 
recommendations, decisions, output, or other information or material that is provided by the Service, derived from 
Customer Data, and provided to Customer or Customer Affiliates, or any of their employees, agents, consultants, third-
party contractors, vendors, customers, or end users.   
1.15. “Subscription Term” means the period during which Customer’s subscription to access and use the Services is in 
effect, as identified in the applicable Order. 
1.16. “Third-Party Data” means any third-party data that is licensed from third party vendors and made accessible via the 
Service. For clarity, Third-Party Data does not include any Customer Data. 
1.17. “Third-Party Platform” means any third-party platform, database, add-on, service, or product not provided by 
Closure that Customer elects to integrate or enable for use with any Service.  
1.18. “User” means any employee or contractor of Customer or its Affiliates that Customer allows to use the Services on 
Customer’s behalf. 
1.19. "Trial Period" means the forty-five (45) day period following the Order Effective Date during which Customer may 
terminate this Agreement and any associated Order Form for convenience, as further described in Section 8.5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 of 551

--- page 47 ---
Exhibit B 
Insurance Requirements 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Solely for the period after November 1, 2025, Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services 
Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed 
operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
2. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s 
Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be entitled to 
coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
 The City’s elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor 
including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability 
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO 
Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance as 
respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance 
maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after thirty (30) 
days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor may 
acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may require the 
Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and 
related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.   
 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
47 of 551

--- page 48 ---
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise 
acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable 
policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to be received 
and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the 
work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these 
specifications, at any time.  
 
 
48 of 551

--- page 49 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
                                       
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 20-5150
File ID: 25-10523
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Grant Award Acceptance and Budget Appropriation – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $30,000 from the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage 
Control Law Enforcement Grant Program; authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement and all other necessary 
grant documents; and appropriate $30,000 to the Police Department’s fiscal year 2025-26 budget. 
BACKGROUND:
The California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) administers a grant program to assist local jurisdictions 
with increasing safety by addressing alcohol-related harm in the community. The Police Department applied for and has 
been awarded this grant, which comes with specific criteria for grant activities. The grant funds will enable the Police 
Department to implement programs such as:
•
Minor Decoy operations – designed to educate and deter licensed locations from selling/furnishing alcohol to 
minors
•
Shoulder Tap operations – used to detect and deter adults who are purchasing alcohol for minors outside of the 
stores
•
Informed Merchants Preventing Alcohol-Related Crime Tendencies (IMPACT) Inspections – to educate licensees on 
alcohol related laws to help reduce alcohol-related crime in and around licensed premises
•
Holiday Enforcement – consisting of enforcement targeting underage drinking, sales/furnishing to minors, sales to 
obviously intoxicated patrons, and other related violations
The grant activities aim to reduce underage drinking and the resultant DUI driving injuries and fatalities, and/or property 
damages, reduce youth access to alcoholic beverages through the education of licensee, enforcement intervention and the 
impressions of omnipresence of law enforcement.
The grant requires that a Resolution and grant agreement (Attachments 1 and 2) be approved by the City Council. The 
Police Department looks forward to the opportunity to enhance the depth of services we provide to our community by 
performing the work funded by the grant.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The ABC Law Enforcement Grant requires no matching funds, and the Police Department already has all related equipment 
needed to conduct grant activities. There is no impact on the General Fund and once appropriated, $30,000 in funds will 
be added to the Police Grant (Fund 200) budget.
49 of 551

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Grant Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Peruzzaro, Captain
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7684
Lupe Mejia, Sergeant
gmejia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7683
50 of 551

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROPRIATING FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING THE CHIEF OF POLICE TO EXECUTE THE GRANT AGREEMENT 
TO EXPEND THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ABC-OTS 
GRANT PROGRAM FUNDS TOTALING $30,000 
WHEREAS, the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control has awarded the City of San Mateo 
a grant totaling $30,000 through its ABC-OTS Grant Program; and 
WHEREAS, in order to receive the grant funding, the City must submit a signed Grant Agreement to the 
State; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control requires recipient cities to adopt Resolutions 
to appropriate funds, which would be reimbursed through the grant, and authorize the expenditure of grant 
monies; and
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by Resolution for amendments 
to the City’s budget.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES AND 
AGREES that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
2.
Grant funding in the amount of $30,000 from the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage 
Control is accepted, and appropriation of these funds into the Police Grants Fund (Fund 200) is 
authorized. 
3.
The Chief of Police is authorized, on behalf of the City, to execute and submit the grant agreement 
and any additional documents including, without limitation, contracts, amendments, extensions, 
modifications, and payment requests as appropriate to accept the funds and comply with the 
conditions of the grant.
4.
Any liability arising out of the performance of this contract, including civil court actions for damages, 
shall be the responsibility of the grant recipient and the authorizing agency. The State of California 
and Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control disclaim responsibility for any such liability.
5.
Grant funds received hereunder shall not be used to supplant ongoing law enforcement operations 
or other expenditures controlled by the body. 
6.
This award is not subject to local hiring freezes. 
51 of 551

--- page 52 ---
SCO ID: 2100-26015121
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES

STANDARD AGREEMENT AGREEMENT NUMBER PURCHASING AUTHORITY NUMBER (If Applicable)
STD 213 (Rev. 04/2020) 26-OTS121 ABC-2100
1. This Agreement is entered into between the Contracting Agency and the Contractor named below:

CONTRACTING AGENCY NAME

Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control

CONTRACTOR NAME

City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department

2. The term of this Agreement is:

START DATE

October 1, 2025

THROUGH END DATE

August 31, 2026

3. The maximum amount of this Agreement is:

$ 30,000.00 Thirty thousand dollars and no cents

4. The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following exhibits, which are by this reference made a part of the Agreement.

Exhibit A Scope of Work
Exhibit B Budget Detail and Payment Provisions
ExhibitC* | General Terms and Conditions (GTC 02/2025)

Exhibit D Special Terms and Conditions po

Items shown with an asterisk (*), are hereby incorporated by reference and made part of this agreement as if attached hereto.
These documents can be viewed at https.//www.dgs.ca.gov/OLS/Resources
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THIS AGREEMENT HAS BEEN EXECUTED BY THE PARTIES HERETO.
CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR NAME (if other than an individual, state whether a corporation, partnership, etc.)
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department

CONTRACTOR BUSINESS ADDRESS CITY STATE | ZIP
200 Franklin Parkway San Mateo CA 94403

es

PRINTED NAME OF PERSON SIGNING TITLE
Ed Barberini Chief of Police
CONTRACTOR AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE DATE SIGNED

Pane 1 of?


--- page 53 ---
SCO ID: 2100-26015121
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES

STANDARD AGREEMENT AGREEMENT NUMBER PURCHASING AUTHORITY NUMBER (If Applicable)
STD 213 (Rev. 04/2020} 26-0TS121 ABC-2100

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
CONTRACTING AGENCY NAME
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control
CONTRACTING AGENCY ADDRESS CITY STATE | ZIP
3927 Lennane Drive, Suite 100 Sacramento 95834
PRINTED NAME OF PERSON SIGNING TITLE
Pattye Baker Chief, Business Management Branch
CONTRACTING AGENCY AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE DATE SIGNED
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES APPROVAL EXEMPTION (If Applicable)

Paae 2 of 2


--- page 54 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 1 of 3 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
 
Purpose and Description of Services 
 
Contractor agrees to implement the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control programs as listed:  
 
• 
Minor Decoy operations – designed to educate and deter licensed locations from 
selling/furnishing alcohol to minors and shall be conducted at both “On-Sale” and “Off-Sale” 
licensed establishments within the operations period of the grant.  
 
• 
Shoulder Tap operations – used to detect and deter adult furnishers outside of a licensed 
business and shall be performed at “Off-Sale” licensed locations to apprehend adults that are 
unaffiliated with the licensed businesses who are purchasing alcohol for minors outside of the 
stores within the operation period of the grant.  
 
• 
Informed Merchants Preventing Alcohol-Related Crime Tendencies (IMPACT) Inspections – 
primary goal is to educate licensees on alcohol related laws to help reduce alcohol-related 
crime in and around licensed premises.  Contractor agrees to conduct visits and inspections of 
licensed premises identifying areas of non-compliance at “On-Sale” and “Off-Sale” licensed 
locations within the operation period of the grant.  
 
• 
Holiday Enforcement – This program consists of working general undercover and high-profile 
enforcement targeting underage drinking, sales/furnishing to minors, sales to obviously 
intoxicated patrons, and other related violations.  
 
Holidays shall be defined as:  
o Halloween – Friday, October 31 to Sunday, November 2, 2025  
o Thanksgiving – Wednesday, November 26 to November 30, 2025 
o New Year’s Eve – Wednesday, December 31, 2025 
o St. Patrick’s Day – Friday, March 13 to Tuesday, March 17, 2026 
o Cinco de Mayo – Friday, May 1 to Tuesday, May 5, 2026 
o Memorial Day Weekend – Friday, May 22 to Monday, May 25, 2026 
o 4th of July – Friday, July 3 to Sunday, July 5, 2026 
 
The project is targeted to reduce underage drinking and the resultant DUI driving injuries and fatalities, 
and/or property damages, reduce youth access to alcoholic beverages through the education of licensee, 
enforcement intervention and the impressions of omnipresence of law enforcement. 
 
In addition, contractor agrees to the following goals:   
 
• 
Raise public awareness that selling, serving and/or furnishing alcoholic beverages to individuals 
under twenty-one years old is a criminal violation that will be prosecuted by local city and district 
attorneys. 
 
• 
Establish and implement a coordinated effort between contactor and ABC, and acknowledges no 
operations will be conducted until after the contractor’s representative has completed training 
conducted by ABC.  
 
 
54 of 551

--- page 55 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 2 of 3 
 
• 
Issue press releases as follows: 
o To announce the start of the program 
o At the conclusion of each Minor Decoy Operation held (to announce the number of 
licensed premises who sold to the minor decoy). 
o At the conclusion of each Shoulder Tap Operation held (to announce the number of adults 
arrested for purchasing alcoholic beverages for the decoy). 
o At the conclusion of each IMPACT operation held. 
 
• 
Email each press release to the Department’s Public Information Office, pio@abc.ca.gov as soon 
as it is released.  
 
• 
In all press releases, in addition to any credits the agency wishes to give, will include the following 
statement: “This project is part of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control’s Minor 
Decoy/Shoulder Tap Grant Project, funded by the California Office of Traffic Safety through the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.” 
 
• 
Complete and submit bi-monthly reports, in a format designed by ABC due no later than the 
following:  
o On or before January 15, 2026 (with results of operations October, November & 
December 2025) 
o On or before March 15, 2026 (with results of operations January & February 2026) 
o On or before May 15, 2026 (with results of operations March & April 2026) 
o On or before July 15, 2026 (with results of operations May & June 2026) 
o On or before September 15, 2026 (With results of operations July & August 2026) 
 
• 
Submit an Executive Summary as part of the final report due on or before September 15, 2026.  
The summary shall contain the following: 
o  An evaluation statement concerning the end product and cost benefits; and a listing of 
recommended and/or adopted policy or procedure changes, if any, occurring as a result of 
the project.  
o Project personnel identifying the key personnel who worked on the project, together with 
their job classification, and a brief description of their contribution. 
o Problems – describe any operational or cost problems that were encountered in project 
implementation.  If known, state alternative methods that would have avoided the problem 
and increased the effectiveness of the project. 
o Results – describe the results of the project in terms of meeting the original objectives as 
stated in the project agreement.  Also, describe the results in terms of how they will be 
specifically applied for future improvement of the agency’s continuing activities relating to 
alcohol problem prevention and enforcement.  Where possible, describe estimated 
savings resulting from implementing project results.  
o Disclaimer – The final report shall include the following: “The opinions, findings, and 
conclusions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and not necessarily 
those of the State of California, Business, Consumer Services and Housing Agency, or 
the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.”  
o Documentation – Attach any relevant documents developed. Examples are new or revised 
forms, diagrams, management reports, photos, coding manuals, instructional manuals, 
etc.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 of 551

--- page 56 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
Contract Term 
 
The operation period of the grant is October 1, 2025 through August 31, 2026 
 
 
Project Representatives 
 
The project representatives during the term of this agreement will be:  
 
San Mateo Police Department 
Alcoholic Beverage Control  
Guadalupe Mejia 
Diana Fouts-Guter, Grant Coordinator 
200 Franklin Parkway 
3927 Lennane Drive, Suite 100  
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Sacramento, CA 95834  
(650) 522-7683 
(916) 928-9807 
gmejia@cityofsanmateo.org  
Diana.fouts-guter@abc.ca.gov 
 
 
 
San Mateo Police Department 
Alcoholic Beverage Control  
Tricia Toomey 
Kristine Okino, Grant Fiscal Analyst 
200 Franklin Parkway 
3927 Lennane Drive, Suite 100  
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Sacramento, CA 95834  
(650) 522-7623 
 Kristine.okino@abc.ca.gov  
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56 of 551

--- page 57 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
EXHIBIT B 
BUDGET DETAIL AND PAYMENT PROVISIONS 
 
 
INVOICING AND PAYMENT 
 
• 
For services satisfactorily rendered, and upon receipt and approval of services, Alcoholic Beverage 
Control agrees to compensate for approved reimbursable costs of personnel overtime and benefits 
(actual cost) and travel.  
 
• 
Invoices shall clearly reference the agreement number 26-OTS121 and must not exceed the total 
authorized contract amount of $30,000. Invoices shall be submitted on a bi-monthly basis, on the 
prescribed form designed by ABC. 
 
Submit to:  Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control 
Attn: Kristine Okino, Grants Fiscal Analyst 
3927 Lennane Drive, Suite 100 
Sacramento, CA 95834 
 
• 
This grant is only for overtime compensation on approved operations and travel for training held on 
October 16, 2025 only.  
 
• 
In accordance with State of CA travel policy, agencies are eligible to receive reimbursement for travel 
expenses incurred for training on October 16, 2025. https://www.calhr.ca.gov/about-calhr/divisions-
programs/benefits/travel-reimbursements/  
 
• 
Payment shall be made in arrears within 45 days from the receipt of an undisputed invoice.  
 
• 
Contractor understands in order to eligible for reimbursement; cost must be incurred on or after the 
effective date of the project, October 1, 2025 and on or before the project termination date, August 
31, 2026. 
 
• 
Contractor understands any other costs incurred by contractor, other than attendance at initial 
training and/or personnel overtime and benefits as authorized above, in the performance of this 
agreement are the sole responsibility of contractor. 
 
BUDGET CONTINGENCY CLAUSE 
 
• 
It is mutually agreed that if the Budget Act of the current year and/or any subsequent years covered 
under this agreement does not appropriate sufficient funds for the program, this agreement shall be 
of no further force and effect. In this event, the State shall have no liability to pay any funds 
whatsoever to contractor or to furnish any other considerations under this agreement and contractor 
shall not be obligated to perform any provisions of this agreement. 
 
• 
If funding for any fiscal year is reduced or deleted by the Budget Act for purposes of this program, the 
State shall have the option to either cancel this agreement with no liability occurring to the State, or 
offer an agreement amendment to contractor to reflect the reduced amount. 
 
PROMPT PAYMENT CLAUSE 
 
Payment will be made in accordance with, and within the time specified in, Government Code Chapter 
4.5, commencing with Section 927. 
57 of 551

--- page 58 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 1 of 4 
 
 
EXHIBIT C 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
  
1. APPROVAL: This Agreement is of no force or effect until signed by both parties and approved by 
the Department of General Services, if required. Contractor may not commence performance until 
such approval has been obtained.  
 
2. AMENDMENT: No amendment or variation of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless 
made in writing, signed by the parties and approved as required. No oral understanding or 
Agreement not incorporated in the Agreement is binding on any of the parties.  
 
3. ASSIGNMENT: This Agreement is not assignable by the Contractor, either in whole or in part, 
without the consent of the State in the form of a formal written amendment.  
 
4. AUDIT: Contractor agrees that the awarding department, the Department of General Services, 
the Bureau of State Audits, or their designated representative shall have the right to review and to 
copy any records and supporting documentation pertaining to the performance of this Agreement. 
Contractor agrees to maintain such records for possible audit for a minimum of three (3) years 
after final payment, unless a longer period of records retention is stipulated. Contractor agrees to 
allow the auditor(s) access to such records during normal business hours and to allow interviews 
of any employees who might reasonably have information related to such records. Further, 
Contractor agrees to include a similar right of the State to audit records and interview staff in any 
subcontract related to performance of this Agreement. (Gov. Code §8546.7, Pub. Contract Code 
§10115 et seq., CCR Title 2, Section 1896).  
 
5. INDEMNIFICATION: Contractor agrees to indemnify, defend and save harmless the State, its 
officers, agents and employees from any and all claims and losses accruing or resulting to any 
and all contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, laborers, and any other person, firm or corporation 
furnishing or supplying work services, materials, or supplies in connection with the performance 
of this Agreement, and from any and all claims and losses accruing or resulting to any person, 
firm or corporation who may be injured or damaged by Contractor in the performance of this 
Agreement.  
 
6. DISPUTES: Contractor shall continue with the responsibilities under this Agreement during any 
dispute.  
 
7. TERMINATION FOR CAUSE: The State may terminate this Agreement and be relieved of any 
payments should the Contractor fail to perform the requirements of this Agreement at the time 
and in the manner herein provided. In the event of such termination the State may proceed with 
the work in any manner deemed proper by the State. All costs to the State shall be deducted from 
any sum due the Contractor under this Agreement and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the 
Contractor upon demand.  
 
8. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: Contractor, and the agents and employees of Contractor, in the 
performance of this Agreement, shall act in an independent capacity and not as officers or 
employees or agents of the State.  
 
9. RECYCLING CERTIFICATION: The Contractor shall certify in writing under penalty of perjury, 
the minimum, if not exact, percentage of post-consumer material as defined in the Public Contract 
Code Section 12200, in products, materials, goods, or supplies offered or sold to the State 
regardless of whether the product meets the requirements of Public Contract Code Section 
58 of 551

--- page 59 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 2 of 4 
 
12209. With respect to printer or duplication cartridges that comply with the requirements of 
Section 12156(e), the certification required by this subdivision shall specify that the cartridges so 
comply (Pub. Contract Code §12205).  
 
10.  NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE: During the performance of this Agreement, Contractor and its 
subcontractors shall not deny the contract’s benefits to any person on the basis of race, religious 
creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, 
genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual 
orientation, or military and veteran status, nor shall they discriminate unlawfully against any 
employee or applicant for employment because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, 
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital 
status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or military and 
veteran status. Contractor shall insure that the evaluation and treatment of employees and 
applicants for employment are free of such discrimination. Contractor and subcontractors shall 
comply with the provisions of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code §12900 et seq.), 
the regulations promulgated thereunder (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §11000 et seq.), the provisions 
of Article 9.5, Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code (Gov. Code §§11135-
11139.5), and the regulations or standards adopted by the awarding state agency to implement 
such article. Contractor shall permit access by representatives of the Department of Fair 
Employment and Housing and the awarding state agency upon reasonable notice at any time 
during the normal business hours, but in no case less than 24 hours’ notice, to such of its books, 
records, accounts, and all other sources of information and its facilities as said Department or 
Agency shall require to ascertain compliance with this clause. Contractor and its subcontractors 
shall give written notice of their obligations under this clause to labor organizations with which 
they have a collective bargaining or other agreement. (See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §11105.)  
 
 
Contractor shall include the nondiscrimination and compliance provisions of this clause in all 
subcontracts to perform work under the Agreement.  
 
11. CERTIFICATION CLAUSES: The CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION CLAUSES contained in the 
document CCC 04/2017 are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement 
by this reference as if attached hereto.  
 
12.  TIMELINESS: Time is of the essence in this Agreement.  
 
13. COMPENSATION:  The consideration to be paid Contractor, as provided herein, shall be in 
compensation for all of Contractor's expenses incurred in the performance hereof, including 
travel, per diem, and taxes, unless otherwise expressly so provided. 
 
14. GOVERNING LAW: This contract is governed by and shall be interpreted in accordance with the 
laws of the State of California. 
 
15. ANTITRUST CLAIMS:  The Contractor by signing this agreement hereby certifies that if these 
services or goods are obtained by means of a competitive bid, the Contractor shall comply with 
the requirements of the Government Codes Sections set out below. 
 
a. The Government Code Chapter on Antitrust claims contains the following definitions: 
 
1) "Public purchase" means a purchase by means of competitive bids of goods, services, 
or materials by the State or any of its political subdivisions or public agencies on 
whose behalf the Attorney General may bring an action pursuant to subdivision (c) of 
Section 16750 of the Business and Professions Code. 
 
59 of 551

--- page 60 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 3 of 4 
 
2) "Public purchasing body" means the State or the subdivision or agency making a 
public purchase. Government Code Section 4550. 
 
b. In submitting a bid to a public purchasing body, the bidder offers and agrees that if the bid is 
accepted, it will assign to the purchasing body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes 
of action it may have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec.15) or under the 
Cartwright Act (Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of  the 
Business and Professions Code),arising from purchases of goods, materials, or services by 
the bidder for sale to the purchasing body pursuant to the bid. Such assignment shall be 
made and become effective at the time the purchasing body tenders final payment to the 
bidder. Government Code Section 4552. 
 
c. If an awarding body or public purchasing body receives, either through judgment or 
settlement, a monetary recovery for a cause of action assigned under  this chapter ,the 
assignor shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for actual legal costs incurred and may, 
upon demand, recover from the public body any portion of the recovery, including treble 
damages, attributable to over charges that were paid by the assignor but were not paid by the 
public body as part of the bid price, less the expenses incurred in obtaining that portion of the 
recovery. Government Code Section 4553. 
 
d. Upon demand in writing by the assignor, the assignee shall, within one year from such 
demand, reassign the cause of action assigned under this part if the assignor has been or 
may have been injured by the violation of law for which the cause of action arose and (a)the 
assignee has not been injured thereby, or (b) the assignee declines to file a court action for 
the cause of action. See Government Code Section 4554. 
 
 
16.  CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE ACT: For any Agreement in excess of $100,000, the contractor 
acknowledges in accordance with Public Contract Code 7110, that:  
 
 
a. The contractor recognizes the importance of child and family support obligations and shall 
fully comply with all applicable state and federal laws relating to child and family support 
enforcement, including, but not limited to, disclosure of information and compliance with 
earnings assignment orders, as provided in Chapter 8 (commencing with section 5200) of 
Part 5 of Division 9 of the Family Code; and  
 
b. The contractor, to the best of its knowledge is fully complying with the earnings assignment 
orders of all employees and is providing the names of all new employees to the New Hire 
Registry maintained by the California Employment Development Department.  
 
17.  UNENFORCEABLE PROVISION: In the event that any provision of this Agreement is 
unenforceable or held to be unenforceable, then the parties agree that all other provisions of this 
Agreement have force and effect and shall not be affected thereby.  
 
18. PRIORITY HIRING CONSIDERATIONS: If this Contract includes services in excess of $200,000, 
the Contractor shall give priority consideration in filling vacancies in positions funded by the 
Contract to qualified recipients of aid under Welfare and Institutions Code Section 11200 in 
accordance with Pub. Contract Code §10353.  
 
19.  SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION AND DVBE PARTICIPATION REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS:  
 
a. If for this Contract Contractor made a commitment to achieve small business participation, 
then Contractor must within 60 days of receiving final payment under this Contract (or within 
60 of 551

--- page 61 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 4 of 4 
 
such other time period as may be specified elsewhere in this Contract) report to the awarding 
department the actual percentage of small business participation that was achieved. (Govt. 
Code § 14841.)  
 
b. If for this Contract Contractor made a commitment to achieve disabled veteran business 
enterprise (DVBE) participation, then Contractor must within 60 days of receiving final 
payment under this Contract (or within such other time period as may be specified elsewhere 
in this Contract) certify in a report to the awarding department: (1) the total amount the prime 
Contractor received under the Contract; (2) the name and address of the DVBE(s) that 
participated in the performance of the Contract; (3) the amount each DVBE received from the 
prime Contractor; (4) that all payments under the Contract have been made to the DVBE; and 
(5) the actual percentage of DVBE participation that was achieved. A person or entity that 
knowingly provides false information shall be subject to a civil penalty for each violation. (Mil. 
& Vets. Code § 999.5(d); Govt. Code § 14841.)  
 
 
20.  LOSS LEADER: If this contract involves the furnishing of equipment, materials, or supplies then 
the following statement is incorporated: It is unlawful for any person engaged in business within 
this state to sell or use any article or product as a “loss leader” as defined in Section 17030 of the 
Business and Professions Code. (PCC 10344(e).)  
 
21.  GENERATIVE AI DISCLOSURE OBLIGATIONS:  
 
a. The following terms are in addition to the defined terms and shall apply to the Contract: 
 
 
1) “Generative AI (GenAI)” means an artificial intelligence system that can generate 
derived synthetic content, including text, images, video, and audio that emulates the 
structure and characteristics of the system's training data. (Gov. Code § 11549.64.)  
 
 
b.  Contractor shall immediately notify the State in writing if it: (1) intends to provide GenAI as a 
deliverable to the State; or (2), intends to utilize GenAI, including GenAI from third parties, to 
complete all or a portion of any deliverable that materially impacts: (i) functionality of a State 
system, (ii) risk to the State, or (iii) Contract performance. For avoidance of doubt, the term 
“materially impacts” shall have the meaning set forth in State Administrative Manual (SAM) § 
4986.2 Definitions for GenAI.  
 
c. Notification shall be provided to the State designee identified in this Contract.  
 
d. At the direction of the State, Contractor shall discontinue the provision to the State of any 
previously unreported GenAI that results in a material impact to the functionality of the 
System, risk to the State, or Contract performance, as determined by the State.  
 
 
e. If the use of previously undisclosed GenAI is approved by the State, then Contractor will 
update the Deliverable description, and the Parties will amend the Contract accordingly, 
which may include incorporating the GenAI Special Provisions into the Contract, at no 
additional cost to the State.  
 
f. 
The State, at its sole discretion, may consider Contractor’s failure to disclose or discontinue 
the provision or use of GenAI as described above, to constitute a material breach of Contract 
when such failure results in a material impact to the functionality of the System, risk to the 
State, or Contract performance. The State is entitled to seek any and all remedies available to 
it under law as a result of such breach, including but not limited to termination of the contract.  
 
 
61 of 551

--- page 62 ---
Agreement Number: 26-OTS121 
City of San Mateo through the San Mateo Police Department 
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
EXHIBIT D 
SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
Disputes:  Any disputes concerning a question of fact arising under this contract which is not disposed of 
by agreement shall be decided by the Director, Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, or designee, 
who shall reduce his decision in writing and mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof to the contractor.  
The decision of the Department shall be final and conclusive unless, within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of such copy, the contractor mails or otherwise furnishes to the State a written appeal addressed 
to the Director of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.  The decision of the Director of Alcoholic 
Beverage Control or his duly authorized representative for the determination of such appeals shall be 
final and conclusive unless determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been fraudulent, 
capricious, arbitrary, or so grossly erroneous as necessarily to imply bad faith, or not supported by 
substantial evidence.  In connection with any appeal proceeding under this clause, the contractor shall 
be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of its appeal.  Pending final 
decision of a dispute hereunder, contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the contract 
and in accordance with the decision of the State. 
 
Cancellation/Termination:  This agreement may be cancelled or terminated without cause by either 
party by giving thirty (30) calendar days advance written notice to the other party.  Such notification shall 
state the effective date of termination or cancellation and include any final performance and/or 
payment/invoicing instructions/requirements.  No penalty shall accrue to either party because of contract 
termination. 
 
Contractor Certifications:  By signing this agreement, contractor certifies compliance with the 
provisions of CCC 04/2017, Standard Contractor Certification Clauses.  This document may be viewed 
at: https://www.dgs.ca.gov/OLS/Resources/Page-Content/Office-of-Legal-Services-Resources-List-
Folder/Standard-Contract-Language  
 
If the State determines that the grant project is not achieving its goals and objectives on schedule, 
funding may be reduced by the State to reflect this lower level of project activity. 
 
62 of 551

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2011
File ID: 25-10536
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Independent Audit Services — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to an Agreement with The Pun Group LLP for independent audit services to extend the 
Agreement by one additional year; increase the compensation by $73,973, for a new total Agreement amount of 
$422,543.68; and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form provided.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo released a Request for Proposals (RFP) for audit services in December 2020 and sent direct 
solicitations to eight professional Certified Public Accountant (CPA) firms that provide audit services to local government 
entities. The City received five responses to the RFP. Following an internal evaluation process, the City selected The Pun 
Group LLP (Pun Group) as the preferred CPA firm. On April 7, 2021, the City Council approved a five-year Agreement with 
Pun Group for independent audit services. 
The current Agreement with Pun Group expires on December 31, 2025. City staff recommends extending this Agreement 
for one additional year, which will add the audit for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026 to the Agreement. Staff 
recommends adding one year to the contract because Pun Group has proved an excellent audit partner as the City has 
moved all of its financial processes to Workday. The current audit team has been supportive during the transition to 
Workday and has worked through new reporting with staff to obtain the proper information for the audit. By waiting one 
more year, City staff can continue to work with Pun Group on the first full audit with all the City‘s financial pieces, 
including payroll, in Workday. At the same time, the original audit Agreement was five years, and audit contracts are more 
typically six years. Best practice for cities is to change auditors or at least to change managing partners within an audit firm 
every six years. By adding one more year, the Agreement term is more standard, allows one more year to work with the 
current audit partner from Pun Group, and provides more time for the Finance Department to conduct a new RFP process.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no additional fiscal impact as the operating funds for the City's annual audit are already included in the Finance 
budget and this additional year represents a 2% increase from the year prior, which can be covered by that budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This independent audit services amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
63 of 551

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Abby Veeser, Finance Director
aveeser@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
64 of 551

--- page 65 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
CAO Approved June 2024 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
THE PUN GROUP LLP FOR 
INDEPENDENT AUDIT SERVICES 
($348,570.70 [Original Amount] / $73,973.00 [Amendment No. 1]) 
 
 
 
This Amendment is made and entered into this day of _____________ by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
THE PUN GROUP LLP, a limited liability partnership ("CONSULTANT"). 
 
              WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT entered into an agreement for independent audit services 
(“Agreement”) effective May 1, 2021 to December 31, 2025; and 
 
              WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to extend the term by one 
additional audit year, and to update the base service fee by $73,973 for a new total Agreement 
amount of $422,543.68. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 4, “Term,” of the Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on May 1, 2021 
and be completed on January 31, 2027. 
 
2. 
Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount of $67,000 for FY 2020-21, $68,340 for FY 2021-
22, $69,706.80 for FY 2022-23, $71,100.93 for FY 2023-24, $72,522.95 for FY 2024-25, 
and $73,973.00 for FY 2025-2026 pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this 
Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
3. 
EXHIBIT B, as attached to this Amendment No. 1, hereby replaces Exhibit B in its 
entirety, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  
 
 
4. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
65 of 551

--- page 66 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
CAO Approved June 2024 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and The Pun Group, LLP have executed this Amendment 
No. 1 on ___________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Alex Khojikian  
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Its Authorized Agent 
 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
 
Exhibit B  
 
66 of 551

--- page 67 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 5/20 
Page 1 of 1 
 
EXHIBIT B 
FEE RATES 
The fees(1)  for professional auditing services for five (5) fiscal years beginning with fiscal year ending 
June 30, 2021 are as follows: 
 
FY 2020-2021 
FY 2021-2022 
FY 2022-2023 
FY 2023-2024 
FY 2024-2025 
Basic City Audit/CAFR 
$ 
50,000.00 
51,000.00 
52,020.00 
53,060.40 
54,121.61 
Single Audit1 
5,000.00 
5,100.00 
5,202.00 
5,306.04 
5,412.16 
TDA Fund 
3,000.00 
3,060.00 
3,121.20 
3,183.62 
3,247.30 
Measure A 
2,000.00 
2,040.00 
2,080.80 
2,122.42 
2,164.86 
S. Bayfront Levee AD 
3,000.00 
3,060.00 
3,121.20 
3,183.62 
3,247.30 
GANN Report 
500.00 
510.00 
520.20 
530.60 
541.22 
Measure S - AUP 
1,500.00 
1,530.00 
1,560.60 
1,591.81 
1,623.65 
Measure W 
2,000.00 
2,040.00 
2,080.80 
2,122.42 
2,164.86 
Printing of All Reports 
Included 
Included 
Included 
Included 
Included 
Total 
$ 
67,000.00 
$ 
68,340.00 
$ 
69,706.80 
$ 
71,100.94 
$ 
72,522.95 
 
(1) Single Audit fees based on 1 (one) major program. The fee to audit additional major programs will be $5,000 
each. The number of programs determined to be “major” will be based on OMB Uniform Guidance. The 
Engagement Team will discuss this with the City’s Management before starting Single Audit work. 
 
In addition, the proposed total all-inclusive maximum price (1) (2) for professional auditing services for 
one (1) additional fiscal year beginning with fiscal year ending June 30, 2026 is as follows: 
 
 
FY 2025-2026 
Basic City Audit/CAFR 
$ 
55,204.00 
Single Audit1 
5,52.00 
TDA Fund 
3,312.00 
Measure A 
2,208.00 
S. Bayfront Levee AD 
3,312.00 
GANN Report 
552.00 
Measure S - AUP 
1,656.00 
Measure W 
2,208.00 
Printing of All Reports 
Included 
Total 
$ 
73,973.00 
 
(1) Above quote includes Single Audit services based on up to one (1) major program. The fees to audit additional major programs will be $5,000 
each. The number of programs determined to be “major” will be based on OMB Uniform Guidance. The Engagement Team will discuss this with 
the City’s Management before starting Single Audit work. 
(2) Supplemental reports, audits, or agreed-upon procedures must be added in a written agreement prior to commencing audit work. The Firm 
and the City will discuss and approve the scope and associated costs of these tasks. 
67 of 551

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10575
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2025 Triennial Building Code Update — Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23 “Buildings and Construction” to adopt the 2025 
Building Standards Code by reference with local amendments; amend various sections of San Mateo Municipal Code Title 
23 “Buildings and Construction”; update procedural language and revise miscellaneous sections; add Chapter 23.29 
“Wildland-Urban Interface Code”. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 20, 2025, the City Council introduced the attached proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 23 “Buildings and Construction” to adopt the 2025 Building Standards Code by reference with 
local amendments; amend various sections of San Mateo Municipal Code Title 23 “Buildings and Construction”; update 
procedural language and revise miscellaneous sections; add Chapter 23.29 “Wildland-Urban Interface Code”. The 
amendments will provide consistency with current State building standards, ensure alignment with local conditions and 
best practices, and maintain the City’s continued commitment to safety, sustainability, and resilience in the built 
environment. If adopted, this Ordinance will become effective 30 days after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact is anticipated as a result of this Ordinance adoption.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
68 of 551

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance Adopting By Reference the 2025 Building Standards Codes with Local Amendments and 
Amending Chapter 23.06 “Administrative Code,” Chapter 23.07 “Residential Code,” Chapter 23.08 “Building 
Code,” Chapter 23.09 “Existing Building Code,” Chapter 23.12 “Electrical Code,” Chapter 23.16 “Plumbing 
Code,” Chapter 23.20 “Mechanical Code,” Chapter 23.24 “Energy Code,” Chapter 23.36 “Historical Building 
Code,” Chapter 23.38 “Referenced Standards Code,” Chapter 23.44 “Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations,” 
Chapter 23.46 “Small Residential Rooftop Solar Energy Systems,” and Chapter 23.70 “Green Building 
Standards Code” of Title 23 “Buildings and Construction”; and Adopting by Reference the 2025 “Wildland-
Urban Interface Code” by adding Chapter 23.29 to Title 23 “Buildings and Construction” of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code
WHEREAS, the California Building Standards Code are published every three years by the California 
Building Standards Commission; and
WHEREAS, the California Building Standards Commission has published the 2022 California Building 
Standards Codes by amending Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations, effective January 1, 2026; and
WHEREAS, cities may establish more restrictive building standards than those in the California Building 
Standards Codes, if certain findings are made pertaining to local climactic, geological, or topographical 
conditions; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Mateo has concurrently adopted a resolution of local 
findings supporting modifications to the technical provisions of the California Residential Code, 2025 Edition; 
California Building Code, 2025 Edition; and California Plumbing Code, 2025 Edition based on local climatic, 
geological, or topographical conditions; and
WHEREAS, Assembly Bill 130 (2025) restricts cities and counties from adopting local amendments to the 
California Building Standards Code applicable to residential units until June 1, 2031, with certain exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local amendments provided herein are within the exceptions contained in AB 
130 because: they are substantially equivalent to changes or modifications previously filed by the City and were 
in effect prior to September 30, 2025; necessary as emergency standards that protect health and safety; or 
modifications that relate to home hardening.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 23.06.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.06.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Administrative Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 1, as adopted 
and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Administrative Code," is adopted as the rules, 
regulations, and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
69 of 551

--- page 70 ---
(b) No section of the Administrative Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or 
on any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports 
to impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate officer, 
official, agent, employee, board, council or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to enforce 
it.
(c) A copy of the Administrative Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 2. Section 23.06.011 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 3. Section 23.06.012 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 4. Section 23.06.014 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 5. Section 23.06.015 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 6. Section 23.06.016 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 7. Section 23.06.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 8. Section 23.06.021 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 9. Section 23.06.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 10. Section 23.06.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 11. Section 23.06.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 12. Section 23.06.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 13. Section 23.06.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 14. Section 23.06.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 15. Section 23.06.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 16. Section 23.06.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 17. Section 23.06.140 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 18. Section 23.06.150 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 19. Section 23.06.160 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 20. Section 23.06.170 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 21. Section 23.07.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
70 of 551

--- page 71 ---
23.07.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Residential Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2.5 and 
Appendices BF—Patio Covers, BG—Sound Transmission, and CI—Swimming Pool Safety Act, as adopted and 
amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Residential Code," are adopted as the rules, regulations, 
and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) No section of the Residential Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on 
any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate officer, official, 
agent, employee, board, council, or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to enforce it.
(c) A copy of the Residential Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 22. Section 23.07.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 23. Section 23.07.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 24. Section 23.07.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 25. Section 23.07.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 26. Section 23.07.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 27. Section 23.07.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 28. Section 23.07.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.07.110 Table R602.10.3(3) And Section R602.10.4.5 Prohibit The Use Of Gypsum Board And Limit The Use Of 
Portland Cement Plaster As Prescriptive Wall Bracing Materials In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1 And D2 
Amended.
(a) Chapter 6 (Wall Construction) Table R602.10.3(3) (Bracing Requirements Based on Seismic Design 
Category) is amended as follows:
(1) The title of Table R602.10.3(3) is amended to read:
TABLE R602.10.3(3) Bracing Requirements Based on Seismic Design Category
(2) Footnotes "i" and "j" are added to Table R602.10.3(3), to read:
i. Methods PBS, HPS, SFB and CS-SFB are not permitted in Seismic Design Categories D0, 
D1, and D2.
j. Methods GB, DWB and PCP are not permitted in Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, 
and D2 where S1 is greater than or equal to 0.75.
(b) Add a new subsection R602.10.4.5, to read:
71 of 551

--- page 72 ---
R602.10.4.5 Limits on methods GB and PCP. In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2, Method GB is 
not permitted for use as intermittent braced wall panels, but gypsum board is permitted to be installed when 
required by this section to be placed on the opposite side of the studs from other types of braced wall panel 
sheathing. In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2, the use of Method PCP is limited to one-story single-
family dwellings and accessory structures.
Section 22. Section 23.08.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.08.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Building Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 2, Volumes 1 and 2 
and Appendix G—Flood Resistant Construction, as adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter 
called "Building Code," are adopted as the rules, regulations, and standards within this City as to all matters 
therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) No section of the Building Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on any 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate officer, official, 
agent, employee, board, council or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to enforce it.
(c) A copy of the Building Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 23. Section 23.08.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 24. Section 23.08.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 25. Section 23.08.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 26. Section 23.08.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 27. Section 23.08.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 28. Section 23.08.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.08.100 1505.1 - Roofing Requirements Amended.
Fire classification of roof assemblies shall be in accordance with Section 1505. The minimum fire 
classification of roof assemblies installed on buildings shall comply with Table 1505.1, as amended, and based on 
the type of construction of the building. Class A, B, and C roof assemblies and roof coverings required to be 
listed by this section shall be tested in accordance with ASTM E108 or UL 790. In addition, fire-retardant-treated 
woodroof coverings shall be tested in accordance with ASTM D2898; fire-retardant-treated shingles and shakes 
shall comply with Section 1505.6
Exception: Skylights and sloped glazing that comply with Chapter 24 or Section 2610.
72 of 551

--- page 73 ---
TABLE 1505.1 MINIMUM ROOF COVERING CLASSIFICATION FOR TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION
IA
IB
IIA
IIB
IIIA
IIIB
IV
VA
VB
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
Section 29. Section 23.08.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 30. Section 23.08.140 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.08.140 Section 2308 Table 2308.10.1 – Wall Bracing Requirements.
(a) Table 2308.10.1 Wall Bracing Requirements of CBC Chapter 23 (Wood) is amended as follows:
1. The title of Table 2308.10.1 is amended to read:
TABLE 2308.10.1 – Wall Bracing Requirementsa
2. Footnotes "f" and "g" are added to Table 2308.10.1, to read:
f. Methods PBS, HPS, and SFB are not permitted in Seismic Design Categories D or E.
g. Methods GB, DWB and PCP are not permitted in Seismic Design Category E.
Section 31. Section 23.08.160 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 32. Section 23.08.170 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.08.170 Section 3109.3 Pool Equipment Enclosure Added.
Section 3109.3 is added as follows:
Pool Equipment Enclosure. Pumps and other swimming pool equipment which produce sound above 
the level of 35 dba shall not be located within twenty-five feet of any neighboring property unless such 
equipment is enclosed in an enclosure that will reduce the sound at the property line to a level of 35 dba or less. 
Swimming pool heaters need not be enclosed in a pool equipment enclosure.
Section 33. Section 23.08.175 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 23.08 as follows:
23.08.175 Section 3110 - Automatic Vehicular Gates.
Section 3110.1 General is amended by adding Section 3110.1.1 Gate Safety as follows:
3110.1.1 Gate Safety.
Automatic vehicular gates shall comply with the requirements of Sections 3110.2 and 3110.3 and all 
other applicable sections of this code. All gates are to comply with 3110.1.1 Gate Safety.
73 of 551

--- page 74 ---
Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to promote public safety and welfare by reducing the risk of 
death or injury that may result from gates detaching from supporting hardware or gates not being well 
maintained and inspected.  The city finds it necessary to require gates to be inspected periodically by a 
professional and record keeping to ensure the basic life safety of its residents.
Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
1.
“Building official” means the building official, an authorized deputy, designated building inspector or 
other designated employee of the city charged with enforcement and administration of this chapter.
2.
“Owner” means any person, co-partnership, association, corporation or fiduciary, or their 
authorized agent(s) having legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property.
3.
“Professional” means any licensed fence installer, ICC certified building inspector, licensed architect, 
or licensed engineer responsible for inspecting and providing a written certification.
4.
“Written certification” means a document attesting the gate meets all of the requirements of the 
referenced standards, the gate has been maintained and  in good working order. In addition, the 
document shall clearly include the following:
a.
Inspection date. 
b.
Site address.
c.
Name of the property owner. 
d.
Contact information of inspector.
e.
Signed and/or stamped.
Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all vehicular gates and any gate more than 48 inches 
(1219 mm) in width or more than 84 inches (2134 mm) in height.
General requirements. Gates shall meet the requirements of ASTM F1184; shall be installed per 
manufacturer’s recommendations; and, at a minimum shall be designed, constructed, and installed to 
not fall over more than 45 degrees from a vertical plane when the gate is detached from supporting 
hardware.  Gates with operators or similar systems shall also meet the requirements of UL 325 and 
ASTM F2200.
Duty of owner or agent.  Property owners, and their agents, shall keep gates well maintained and have 
gates inspected by a professional once every five years.  Property owners and agents must keep the 
written certifications and make them available to City officials upon request.  Any gate repair work 
undertaken must result in a safe outcome.
Time Limits for Compliance. Property owners are responsible for adhering to this standard in the 
interest of public safety. Owners of existing gates shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and 
74 of 551

--- page 75 ---
obtain third-party inspections of their gates no later than July 1, 2026, and at least once every five years 
thereafter. These inspections are intended to ensure ongoing safety and proper maintenance.
Violations Penalties.  Any property owner or their agent that fails to comply with the provision of this 
chapter or a directive of the building official may be subject to enforcement and penalties as provided 
by Title 1 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, and all additional remedies provided by law.
Section 34. Section 23.09.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.09.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Existing Building Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 10, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Existing Building Code," is adopted as the 
rules, regulations, and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or 
amended.
(b) No section of the Existing Building Code shall imply a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or 
on any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports 
to impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate officer, 
official, agent, employee, board, council or commission with discretion to enforce the section or not to enforce 
it.
(c) A copy of the Existing Building Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 35. Section 23.12.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.12.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Electrical Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 3, as adopted and 
amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Electrical Code," is adopted as the rules, regulations, and 
standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) No section of the Electrical Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on 
any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, said section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the appropriate 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission thereof with discretion to enforce the section, 
or not to enforce it.
(c) A copy of the California Electrical Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 36. Section 23.16.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.16.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Plumbing Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 5, as adopted and 
amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Plumbing Code," is adopted as the rules, regulations, and 
standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
75 of 551

--- page 76 ---
(b) No section of the Plumbing Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on 
any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate officer, official, 
agent, employee, board, council, or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to enforce it.
(c) One copy of the Plumbing Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 37. Section 23.16.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.16.020 Section 719.0 Cleanouts.
Section 719.1 Locations is amended by adding Section 719.1.1 as follows:
719.1.1 Additional Locations.
Cleanouts shall be installed adjacent to the property line where the private sewer system connects to 
the public sanitary sewer lateral and in conformance with the California Plumbing Code. All such line cleanouts 
shall be extended to grade with materials and according to specifications approved by the Director of Public 
Works, or designee, and terminate within a concrete box.
Section 38. Section 23.20.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.20.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Mechanical Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 4, as adopted and 
amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Mechanical Code," is adopted as the rules, regulations, 
and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) No section of the Mechanical Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on 
any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, said section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the appropriate 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof with discretion to enforce the section or 
not enforce it.
(c) A copy of the Mechanical Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 39. Section 23.24.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.24.010 Adoption.
(a) The California Energy Code, 2025 Edition, Title 24, Part 6 of the California Code of Regulations, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Energy Code," is adopted as the rules, 
regulations and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or amended.
(b) No section of the Mechanical Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on 
any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, said section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the appropriate 
76 of 551

--- page 77 ---
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof with discretion to enforce the section or 
not enforce it.
(c) One copy of the Energy Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 40. Section 23.24.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 41. Section 23.24.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 42. Section 23.24.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 43. Section 23.24.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 44. Section 23.24.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 45. Section 23.24.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 46. Section 23.24.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is deleted.
Section 47. Chapter 23.29 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 23 as follows:
Chapter 23.29
Wildland-Urban Interface Code
23.29.010 Adoption.
(a) The California Wildland-Urban Interface Code adopted by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department, and as amended from time to time, hereinafter called "WUI Code," is adopted as the rules, 
regulations, and standards within the City as to all matters therein, except otherwise provided.
(b) No section of the WUI Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, or on any 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission thereof. Instead, if any section purports to 
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, said section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the appropriate 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to 
enforce it.
(c) A copy of the WUI Code, as defined herein, shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
23.29.015 Violations.
It is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with any provisions of this code, or violate or fail to comply with 
any order made under this code or to build in violation of any detailed statement of specification or plans 
submitted and approved under this code, or any certificate or permit issued under this code.
Section 48. Section 23.36.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
77 of 551

--- page 78 ---
23.36.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Historical Building Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 8, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Historical Building Code," is adopted as the 
rules, regulations, and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or 
amended.
(b) No section of the Historical Building Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on the City, 
or on any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission thereof. Instead, if any section 
purports to impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, and the appropriate 
officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission with discretion to enforce the section, or not to 
enforce it.
(c) A copy of the Historical Building Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 49. Section 23.38.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.38.010 Adoption.
(a) The 2025 California Referenced Standards Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 12, as 
adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Referenced Standards Code," is adopted as 
the rules, regulations, and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter modified or 
amended.
(b) No section of the California Referenced Standards Code shall impose a mandatory duty of 
enforcement on the City, or on any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission thereof. 
Instead, if any section purports to impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall invest the City, 
and the appropriate officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission with discretion to enforce 
the section, or not to enforce it.
(c) A copy of the California Referenced Standards Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of 
the City Clerk.
Section 50. Section 23.44.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 23.44 as follows:
23.44.010 Purpose and Intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide an expedited, streamlined permitting process for electric 
vehicle charging stations that complies with Government Code Sections 65850.7 and 65850.71, as enacted by 
Assembly Bill 1236 (2015) and Assembly Bill 970 (2021). The intent of this chapter is to encourage and promote 
the use of electric vehicle charging infrastructure by removing unreasonable barriers, minimizing costs to 
property owners and the City, and expanding the ability of property owners to install charging stations while 
protecting the public health and safety.
This chapter is designed to:
(a) Meet California’s goals to expand zero-emission vehicle adoption and greenhouse gas reduction.
78 of 551

--- page 79 ---
(b) Provide timely and cost-effective installation of electric vehicle charging stations through an 
administrative, nondiscretionary permitting process.
(c) Ensure that permit review is limited to objective health and safety standards and that applications 
are processed consistent with statutory timelines.
(d) Require the development and public availability of a checklist and standards for expedited review, 
consistent with state guidance.
(e) Clarify that charging station permits shall not be denied absent a specific, adverse impact on public 
health or safety, supported by substantial evidence in the record.
(f) Adjust minimum parking requirements when installation of charging stations reduces the number of 
available parking spaces, in accordance with state law.
Section 51. Section 23.44.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.44.020 Definitions.
(a) "Electric vehicle charging station(s)" or "charging station(s)" means any level of electric vehicle supply 
equipment station that is designed and built in compliance with California Code of Regulations, Title 24 Part 3 
California Electrical Code Article 625, as it reads on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter or 
as it may be amended, and delivers electricity from a source outside an electric vehicle into a plug-in electric 
vehicle.
(b) "Electronic submittal" means the use email, the internet, or facsimile to submit a permit application 
required by this chapter.
(c) "Feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact" includes, but is not 
limited to, any cost-effective method, condition, or mitigation imposed by the City on another similarly situated 
application in a prior successful application for a permit.
(d) "Specific, adverse impact" means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on 
objective, identified, and written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the 
date the application was deemed complete.
(e)  “Application completeness review” means the process of determining whether a permit application 
for an electric vehicle charging station includes all documents and information required by the City’s published 
checklist.
(f) “Deemed complete” means that if the City does not notify the applicant of deficiencies within the 
statutory timelines established in Government Code Section 65850.71, the application shall be deemed 
complete.
(g) “Deemed approved” means that if the City does not approve or deny the application within the 
statutory timelines established in Government Code Section 65850.71, the application shall be deemed 
approved.
79 of 551

--- page 80 ---
Section 59. Section 23.44.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.44.030 Applicability.
This chapter applies to the permitting of all levels of electric vehicle charging stations, including Level 1, 
Level 2, and direct current fast charging (DCFC) stations, in the City of San Mateo. Electric vehicle charging 
stations legally established or permitted prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter are 
not subject to the requirements of this chapter unless physical modifications or alterations are undertaken that 
materially change the size, type, or components of an electric vehicle charging station in such a way as to 
require new permitting. Routine operation and maintenance shall not require a permit.
Section 60. Section 23.44.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.44.050 Submittal Process.
(a) All documents required for the submission of an electric vehicle charging station permit application 
shall be made available on the City's website and updated as necessary.
(b) Electronic submittal of the required permit application and documents shall be accepted. The City 
shall accept electronic signature on all forms, applications, and other documents in lieu of a wet signature.
(c) The City's Building Division shall adopt and publish a checklist of all requirements with which the 
electric vehicle charging stations shall comply to be eligible for expedited review. The permit process, 
standard(s) and checklist(s) may substantially conform to recommendations for permitting, including the 
checklist and standards contained in the "Plug-In Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting Checklist" of the 
"Zero-Emission Vehicles in California: Community Readiness Guidebook" published by the Office of Planning and 
Research.
(d) The checklist shall be published on the City’s website and shall be the basis for completeness 
determinations.
Section 61. Section 23.44.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.44.060 Submittal Review, Permit, And Inspection.
(a) Timelines
(1) For applications for one to twenty-five (1–25) charging stations at a single site, the City shall notify 
the applicant of any incompleteness within five (5) business days. If no such notice is provided, the application 
shall be deemed complete. Upon completeness, the City shall approve or deny the application within twenty 
(20) business days, or the application shall be deemed approved.
(2) For applications for twenty-six (26) or more charging stations, the City shall notify the applicant of 
any incompleteness within ten (10) business days. If no such notice is provided, the application shall be deemed 
complete. Upon completeness, the City shall approve or deny the application within forty (40) business days, or 
the application shall be deemed approved.
80 of 551

--- page 81 ---
(b)  Administrative review. The Building Official shall implement an administrative review process to 
expedite review of charging station applications. Review shall be limited to compliance with health and safety 
standards and the published checklist. The determination of conformance shall be made by the Community 
Development Director or designated staff members of the Community Development Department.
(c) Approval. If the application meets the requirements of the checklist and there is no specific, adverse 
impact on public health or safety, the Building Division shall issue the building permit through a 
nondiscretionary, ministerial process.
(d) Denial. The Building Official may deny an application only upon making written findings, based on 
substantial evidence in the record, that the proposed installation would have a specific, adverse impact upon 
public health or safety and there is no feasible method to mitigate or avoid the impact.
(e) Parking adjustments. If installation of the charging station and associated equipment reduces the 
number of available parking spaces below the minimum required by the City’s Zoning Code for existing uses, the 
number of required parking spaces shall be reduced by the number of spaces occupied by the charging station 
equipment, in compliance with Government Code Section 65850.71.
(f) Appeals. The building official's decision to approve or deny an application under this Chapter may be 
appealed to the Planning Commission.
(g) Inspections. A separate fire inspection may be performed by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department, if required.
Section 52. Section 23.46.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.010 Purpose And Intent.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide an expedited, streamlined solar energy system permitting 
process consistent with the Solar Rights Act and Solar Permitting Efficiency Act (AB 2188, Gov. Code § 65850.5), 
and the Residential Solar Energy Permit Program (SB 379, Gov. Code § 65850.52).  These laws collectively 
establish the framework for achieving timely and cost-effective installations of residential rooftop solar energy 
systems, including the requirement to adopt automated permitting for qualifying solar and energy storage 
systems. This chapter encourages the use of solar energy systems by removing unreasonable barriers, 
minimizing costs to property owners and the City, and ensuring the public health and safety are protected.
Section 53. Section 23.46.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.020 Definitions.
(a) "Association" means a nonprofit corporation or unincorporated association created for the purpose 
of managing a common interest development.
(b) "Automated permitting system" means an online, web-based portal that verifies code compliance for 
eligible residential solar and solar-plus-storage systems and issues permits in real time or near-real time, 
consistent with California Government Code Section 65850.52.
81 of 551

--- page 82 ---
(c) "Common interest development" means any of the following:
(1) A community apartment project.
(2) A condominium project.
(3) A planned development.
(4) A stock cooperative.
(d) "Electronic submittal" includes email, web-based portals, or other digital platforms.
(e) "Feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid a specific, adverse impact" includes, but is not 
limited to, any cost-effective method, condition or mitigation imposed by a city on another similarly situated 
application in a prior successful application for a permit. The city shall use its best efforts to ensure that the 
selected method, condition, or mitigation meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of 
subdivision (d) of Section 714 of the Civil Code.
(f) "Reasonable restrictions" shall be as defined in Civil Code § 714, meaning restrictions that do not add 
more than 10% to the cost of the system, add no more than $1,000 to the cost of the system, or reduce system 
efficiency by more than 10%.
(g) "Small residential rooftop solar energy system" means all of the following:
(1) A solar energy system that is no larger than 10 kilowatts alternating current nameplate rating 
of 30 kilowatts thermal.
(2) A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire, structural, electrical, and 
other building codes as adopted or amended by the City, and all state and City health and safety 
standards.
(3) A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex family dwelling.
(4) A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal building height as 
defined by the City.
(h) "Solar energy system" means either of the following:
(1) Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary purpose is to provide for the 
collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for space heating, space cooling, electric generation, 
or water heating.
(2) Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose is to provide for the 
collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for electricity generation, space heating or cooling, 
or for water heating.
82 of 551

--- page 83 ---
(i) "Specific adverse impact" means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on 
objective, identified, and written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the 
date the application was deemed complete.
Section 64. Section 23.46.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.030 Applicability.
This chapter applies to the permitting of small residential rooftop solar systems. Systems lawfully 
installed before the effective date are exempt unless modified to materially change size, type, or components. 
Routine operation, maintenance, or like-kind replacements do not require a new permit.
Section 65. Section 23.46.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.040 Duties Of Building Department.
(a) All documents required for the submission of a small residential rooftop solar energy system 
application shall be available on the City's website.
(b) Electronic submittal of the required permit application and documents by email or facsimile shall be 
available to all small residential rooftop solar energy system permit applicants.
(c) The City's Building Division shall adopt, and post on the City's website, a (1) standard electrical plan; 
and (2) standard checklist of all requirements with which small residential rooftop solar energy systems shall 
comply to be eligible for expedited review, consistent with the California Solar Permitting Guidebook.
Section 66. Section 23.46.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.050 Submittal Requirements.
The following are required in order to submit a complete application for a solar energy system:
(a) Completed permit application form;
(b) Completed eligibility checklist for expedited review;
(c) A completed standard electrical plan, which will be available on the City's website;
(d) A roof plan showing roof layout, PV panels, and the following fire safety items:
(1) Approximate location of roof access point,
(2) Location of code-compliant access pathways,
(3) PV system fire classifications, and
(4) Locations of all required labels and markings;
83 of 551

--- page 84 ---
(e) Completed structural criteria checklist; and
84 of 551

--- page 85 ---
(f) Payment of City's processing fee in the amount established by resolution of the City Council.
(g) Applicants for systems eligible under SB 379 may submit through the automated permitting portal in 
lieu of paper or standard electronic submittals.
Section 54. Section 23.46.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.46.070 Permit Review And Inspection Requirements.
(a) Review of the application shall be limited to the building official's review of whether the application 
is complete and meets local, state, and federal health and safety requirements.
(b) If an application is deemed incomplete or fails to meet local, state, and federal health and safety 
requirements, the Building Official will issue a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the 
application and any additional information or documentation required to be eligible for expedited permit 
issuance.
(c) If an application is complete and meets local, state, and federal health and safety requirements, only 
one inspection shall be required and performed by the Building Division. An inspection will be scheduled within 
two business days of a request and provide a two-hour inspection window. If a small residential rooftop solar 
energy system fails inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the requirements 
of this subsection.
(d) Applications submitted through the automated permitting platform under SB 379 shall be processed 
automatically, with approvals issued in real time or near-real time where compliance is verified.
(e) A City shall not condition approval of an application on the approval of an association, as defined in 
Section 4080 of the Civil Code.
(f) Approval or denial of an application for a small residential rooftop solar energy system may be 
appealed by any interested party to the City's Planning Commission within 10 days of the mailing date of the 
Building Official's decision.
Section 55. The title of Chapter 23.70 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
Chapter 23.70
Green Building Standards Code
Section 56. Section 23.70.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.70.010 Adoption.
(a) The California Green Building Standards Code, 2025 Edition, Title 24, Part 11 of the California Code of 
Regulations, as adopted and amended by the State of California, hereinafter called "Green Building Code," is 
adopted as the rules, regulations and standards within this City as to all matters therein except as hereinafter 
modified or amended;
85 of 551

--- page 86 ---
(b) No section of the Green Building Standards Code shall impose a mandatory duty of enforcement on 
the City, or on any officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof. Instead, if any section 
purports to impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, said section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the 
appropriate officer, official, agent, employee, board, council or commission thereof with discretion to enforce 
the section or not enforce it.
(c) One copy of the Green Building Standards Code shall at all times be kept on file in the office of the 
City Clerk.
Section 57. Section 23.70.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code will be removed.
Section 58. Environmental Determination. The City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the 
environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
Section 59. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 60. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 61. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
86 of 551

--- page 87 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10576
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Establish the Civic Arts Committee as a Standing Commission – Ordinance Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.22 and amend Chapter 23.60 to change the 
“Civic Arts Committee” to the “Civic Arts Commission,” establish its powers and duties, implement term limits and update 
the appointment process to align with other City boards and commissions; and amend 2.22.010 to provide for Council 
appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 20, 2025, the City Council introduced an Ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code 
to add Chapter 2.22 and amend Chapter 23.60 to change the “Civic Arts Committee” to the “Civic Arts Commission,” 
establish its powers and duties, implement term limits and update the appointment process to align with other City boards 
and commissions. The introduction included an amendment to Section 2.22.010 to provide for Council appointment of two 
non-voting youth advisory members to the Civic Arts Commission. A track changes version of Chapter 2.22 that shows the 
text added at the October 20, 2025 hearing is included as Attachment 2. The amendments will enhance the structure and 
effectiveness of the City’s public art program by providing a more formal framework for decision-making, ensuring 
consistent oversight of civic art projects, and strengthening accountability. If adopted, this Ordinance will become effective 
30 days after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact is anticipated as a result of this Ordinance adoption.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Ordinance
Att 2 - Chapter 2.22 Text – Tracked Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
87 of 551

--- page 88 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance Adding San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.22 and Amending Chapter 23.60 to update the 
Civic Arts Committee to be a Standing City Commission
WHEREAS, on March 3, 2025, the City Council directed staff to update San Mateo Municipal Code 
(“SMMC”) Chapter 23.60 to bring the Civic Arts Committee (“Committee”) into alignment with the appointment 
and term limits practices of other City advisory bodies; and
WHEREAS, the Committee was formed in 2008 as a special committee subject to the provisions of 
Section 6.09 of the San Mateo City Charter to support administration of the Art in Public Places Program; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has renewed the Civic Arts Committee every two years since its formation 
and now desires that it continue as a standing City commission; and
WHEREAS, the applicable sections of the Art in Public Places Ordinance (SMMC Chapter 23.60) are 
updated to reflect the title of the Civic Arts Commission.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 2.22 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Title 2 as follows:
Chapter 2.22 
Civic Arts Commission
2.22.010 Organization.
The Civic Arts Commission of the City shall consist of no more than five members appointed by the 
Council, and two non-voting youth advisory members who must be at least 13 years old, and no more than 17 
years old at the time of appointment ("Youth Commissioners"). Youth Commissioners must present written 
documentation of parental or guardian consent to be considered for appointment. Youth commissioners shall 
serve only in an advisory capacity and shall not count towards a quorum of the commission. In making 
appointments, the Council shall prioritize appointing applicants who display an interest in and appreciation of 
art, architecture, local business, or the broader art community.
Each member of the Civic Arts Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and for a term of 
four years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the initial terms of the first members appointed 
shall be determined by lot at their first meeting so that each year at least one term will expire. Thereafter, all 
appointments shall be for a term of four years. No member shall be eligible for reappointment after serving two 
consecutive four-year terms. Each Youth Commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of the Council for a term of 
one year and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Youth Commissioners may be reappointed 
for one additional one-year term.
2.22.020 Meetings.
The Civic Arts Commission shall elect a chair and vice-chair to serve at the pleasure of the Commission.
A regular time and place of meetings shall be established and adhered to in the manner of holding public 
meetings for legislative bodies in the state. All meetings shall be open to the public unless otherwise provided by 
law.
88 of 551

--- page 89 ---
2.22.030 Powers – Duties.
It shall be the duty of the Civic Arts Commission, as an advisory body to the City Council, to advise on 
policies and programs related to public art as assigned and to carry out the duties as established in Chapter
23.60 (Art in Public Places).
Section 2. Section 23.60.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.60.020 Program Execution.
The Civic Arts Commission and the Community Development Department shall carry out the duties 
established by this chapter.
Section 3. Section 23.60.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.60.080 Approval for Placement of Artwork on Private Property
(a) Completed applications shall be submitted to the Community Development Department for review 
of the artwork.
(b) The Community Development Department shall present the completed application to the Civic Arts 
Commission. The Civic Arts Commission shall review the application for installation of the artwork considering its 
proposed location, the aesthetic quality and harmony with the proposed project, and the public accessibility to 
the artwork, including any recommended conditions of approval.
(c) The Civic Arts Commission shall approve a request to install artwork on private property, if it finds:
(1) The aesthetic quality of the artwork merits approval;
(2) The location of the proposed artwork is compatible and in harmony with the proposed 
development project and with the character of adjacent developed parcels; and
(3) There is sufficient public accessibility to the artwork.
(d) The decision of the Civic Arts Commission is subject to a fifteen-day review period by the City 
Council, and then becomes final. During this fifteen-day review period, any person may appeal a Civic Arts 
Commission decision to the City Council, who shall conduct a hearing thereon. The decision of the City Council 
shall be final.
Section 4. Section 23.60.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
23.60.100 Artwork on Public Property
(a) Every two years, the Civic Arts Commission shall prepare and submit to the City Council a report for 
the Art in Public Places Program. The report shall include a discussion of the amount of money in the Art in 
Public Places Fund ("the Fund"), any plans for the expenditure of money from the Fund, and any other matters 
the Civic Arts Commission deems appropriate to include in the report.
89 of 551

--- page 90 ---
90 of 551

--- page 91 ---
(b) Before money from the Fund is expended to purchase and install artwork on public property, the 
Civic Arts Commission shall consider the proposed expenditure and make a recommendation on the proposal to 
the City Council. In addition, at any time the Civic Arts Commission may make a recommendation to the City 
Council to purchase a particular artwork to be displayed on public property. Any recommendations made under 
this provision shall include the type of artwork considered, an analysis of the constraints applicable to placement 
of the artwork on a site, the need for and practicality of the maintenance of the artwork, and the costs of 
acquisition and installation of the artwork.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is an administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect 
physical changes in the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This Ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
91 of 551

--- page 92 ---
CHAPTER 2.22 CIVIC ARTS COMISSION
2.22.010
ORGANIZATION.
The Civic Arts Commission of the City shall consist of no more than five members 
appointed by the Council, and two non-voting youth advisory members who must be at 
least 13 years old, and no more than 17 years old at the time of appointment ("Youth 
Commissioners"). Youth Commissioners must present written documentation of 
parental or guardian consent to be considered for appointment. Youth commissioners 
shall serve only in an advisory capacity and shall not count towards a quorum of the 
commission. In making appointments, the Council shall prioritize appointing applicants 
who display an interest in and appreciation of art, architecture, local business, or the 
broader art community. 
Each member of the Civic Arts Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council 
and for a term of four years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the 
initial terms of the first members appointed shall be determined by lot at their first 
meeting so that each year at least one term will expire. Thereafter, all appointments 
shall be for a term of four years. No member shall be eligible for reappointment after 
serving two consecutive four-year terms. Each Youth Commissioner shall serve at the 
pleasure of the Council for a term of one year and until the appointment and 
qualification of a successor. Youth Commissioners may be reappointed for one 
additional one-year term.
2.22.020 MEETINGS.
The Civic Arts Commission shall elect a chair and vice-chair to serve at the pleasure of 
the Commission. A regular time and place of meetings shall be established and adhered 
to in the manner of holding public meetings for legislative bodies in the state. All 
meetings shall be open to the public unless otherwise provided by law. 
2.22.030 POWERS – DUTIES. 
It shall be the duty of the Civic Arts Commission, as an advisory body to the City 
Council, to advise on policies and programs related to public art as assigned and to 
carry out the duties as established in Chapter 23.60 (Art in Public Places).
92 of 551

--- page 93 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2311
File ID: 25-10579
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Human Resources and Finance Department Request for Additional Positions – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to add one (1) Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Human Resources Analyst position and one (1) FTE Payroll 
Technician I/II position.
BACKGROUND:
On July 28, 2025, the City Council approved an updated agreement between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) for Finance and Human Resources services for a five (5)-year term from August 1, 
2025, through June 30, 2030. Among other revisions in the agreement, the City agreed to provide SMC Fire with one (1) 
FTE HR Analyst and one (1) FTE Payroll Technician I/II to support SMC Fire in Finance and Human Resources services. A 
third-party consultant conducted a study and recommended an additional two (2) FTE in staffing (for a total of 6 FTEs) to 
support the SMC Fire contract. These two new positions have since been added to the contract to reflect the service levels 
needed to meet contract expectations between the City and SMC Fire. In addition, the updated contract factors in the 
costs for these two positions. Based on the above, staff recommend the City Council authorize these two new positions. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The two positions are not currently in the FY 25-26 budget and will cost approximately $315,000 annually. However, staff 
does not recommend a new appropriation of funding as the current year cost will be a portion of this amount and the City 
will be receiving additional revenues from San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department to offset the cost. The full cost of the 
two positions will be included in the adopted budgets going forward. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
93 of 551

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
AUTHORIZING THE ADDITION OF 1.00 FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) HUMAN RESOURCE ANALYST
AND 1.00 FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PAYROLL TECHNICIAN I/II
              WHEREAS, the Human Resources and Finance Departments requests approval to add 1.0 Full Time 
Equivalent (FTE) Human Resources (HR) Analyst and 1.0 FTE Payroll Technician to support the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire); and 
              WHEREAS, on July 28, 2025, City Council approved an updated agreement between the City of San 
Mateo SMC Fire for Finance and Human Resource Services; and 
               WHEREAS, a third-party consultant conducted a study and recommended an additional two (2) FTEs in 
staffing to support SMC Fire; and 
               WHEREAS, the addition of these two (2) FTEs reflects the service levels needed to meet contract 
expectations between the City and SMC Fire; and 
               WHEREAS, the contract factors in the costs for these two (2) FTEs and the current year costs will be 
covered by additional revenues from SMC Fire; and 
               WHEREAS, the full cost of these two (2) FTEs will be included in adopted budgets moving forward
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2. The addition of 1.0 FTE to Human Resources and 1.0 FTE to Finance is authorized. 
94 of 551

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10581
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of the City Council on October 20, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2025-10-20 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2025-10-20 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
95 of 551

--- page 96 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 10/20/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
October 20, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:31 p.m.
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Newsom, Council Members: Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki and Diaz Nash
Absent and Excused: Deputy Mayor Loraine
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
STUDY SESSION
Citywide Facilities Condition Assessment – Informational
Steve Woo, Facilities & Fleet Services Manager, Matt Fabry, Public Works Director, and David Masenten, from 
ELS Architecture and Urban Design gave the presentation.
Public Comment: There were no speakers.
Council asked questions and made comments. Council provided direction to move forward using a blended 
strategy focused on Approach 2 (making like-for-like improvements to extend the useful life of priority facilities), 
Approach 3 (pursuing opportunities for strategic redevelopment at key sites), and Approach 4 (conducting 
citywide operational and programmatic assessments to guide future investments). Where necessary, the City 
will maintain the status quo and continue deferred maintenance (Approach 1), though the primary focus will be 
on forward-looking and strategic improvements. Staff and professional consultants will help determine which 
approach is most appropriate for each facility. Council emphasized the importance of equitable investment 
across all districts and committed to study sessions on key topics such as City Hall, recreation and aquatic 
facilities, and parking. This long-term planning effort is expected to unfold over the next 18–36 months, with 
regular five-year reviews as a standard practice of good governance.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:48 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
96 of 551

--- page 97 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/20/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
October 20, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:01 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present: Mayor Newsom, Council Members: Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, Diaz Nash 
Absent and Excused: Deputy Mayor Loraine
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CEREMONIAL
1.
The Livin’ Project – Proclamation 
Philip Grele and Drew Diaz, Founders of the LIVIN Project received the proclamation. Assemblymember Papan 
presented a Resolution on behalf of the State Assembly.
2.
San Mateo Daily Journal 25th Anniversary – Proclamation
Jon Mays, editor in chief of the San Mateo Daily Journal received the proclamation.
3.
SMU Home Maintenance Awards – Recognition
The San Mateo United Home Maintenance Awards recognized the exemplary appearance and landscaping of 
local homes. Congratulations to:
•
Joann - Central
•
Eleanor & Emile - Sugarloaf
•
Chris and Kate - Baywood
•
Vanna and Jason - Beresford Hillsdale
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 4 through 11 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 4-0. 
Moved:       
   Fernandez, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes:
   Fernandez, Newsom, Diaz Nash, Cwirko-Godycki,
Noes: 
   None
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of the City Council on October 6, 2025. Approve the 
minutes of the City Council special meeting of October 2, 2025.
97 of 551

--- page 98 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/20/2025
Page 2
5.
San Mateo Police Officers’ Association Memorandum of Understanding — Amendment 
Adopt a Resolution to amend the San Mateo Police Officers’ Association (SMPOA) Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) to include a side letter of agreement outlining guidelines for mandatory 
training for which Police Officers receive Police Earned Worked Saved (PEWS) hours.
Enactment: Resolution No. 97 (2025)
6.
Animal Control Amendments — Ordinance Adoption 
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 8.02 "Animal Control" and adding 
Chapter 8.34 “Animal Fanciers Permit” to maintain enforceability and alignment with San Mateo 
County's Animal Control Ordinance.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2025-08
7.
Byrne State Crisis Intervention Grant Award and Backfill CSO Position – Approval and Budget 
Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $224,131 from the California Board of 
State and Community Corrections, Byrne State Crisis Intervention Program (Byrne SCIP); authorize 
the Chief of Police to execute the grant agreement with the Board of State and Community 
Corrections and all other necessary grant documents; authorize the addition of 1.00 Full-Time 
Equivalent Community Service Officer position for the duration of the grant period; and appropriate 
$82,000 to the Police Department’s fiscal year 2025-26 budget.
Enactment: Resolution No. 98 (2025)
8. 
365 2nd Avenue — Lease Amendment
Approve the Assignment and Fourth Amendment to the lease between the City and Genius Learning and Dennis 
Tong, dba Beard Papa’s, for the City-owned property at 365 2nd Avenue, to assign the lease to KIZUNA US, LLC 
and Thai Ho; authorize an increase in the security deposit to $3,000; and authorize the City Manager to execute 
the amendment in substantially the form presented.
9. 
Personal Computer Replacements — Adoption
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure for a Master Purchasing Agreement with 
Lenovo Inc. for the purchase of 54 personal computers in an amount not-to-exceed $92,700.37; establish a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $13,905.10, for a total amount of $106,605.47; and authorize the Director 
of Information Technology to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment: Resolution No. 99 (2025)
10. 
Mapping Software — Enterprise Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve an Enterprise Agreement (EA) 
with Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI) for a three-year renewal of software subscription, 
cloud hosting, and technical support in the amount of $268,200; and authorize the City Manager to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented.
Enactment: Resolution No. 100 (2025)
11. 
Clean Water Program, Program Management Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 11 to the agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers, Inc. to authorize scope and funding for 
program management services for the Clean Water Program; authorize payment in an amount not to exceed 
98 of 551

--- page 99 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/20/2025
Page 3
$5,461,527; establish a contingency amount of $2,424,500; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute 
this amendment and task amendments within the contingency amount in substantially the form presented.
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
PUBLIC COMMENT
Peter Mott, president of On Ice Rinks, shared plans for the 10th anniversary of the seasonal skating rink, 
highlighting its community partnerships, economic impact, and upcoming free events. Trina Pierce expressed 
support for restoring parking on Humboldt Street and raised concerns about equity, safety, and past city 
decisions. Allison McQueen urged the City to publish and act on the 2024 Safe Routes to School Strategic Plan, 
refund the coordinator position, and prioritize infrastructure improvements over shifting responsibilities to the 
school district. Robin Solis Rodriguez asked questions about the current status of the Hillsdale Mall 
redevelopment plan and the inclusion of office space instead of additional housing. Astrid Varteressian 
requested City assistance in resolving ongoing service issues with Recology regarding inadequate bulky item 
pickups.
Following the closing of public comment, Council directed staff to follow up on Robin Solis Rodriguez’s questions 
about the Hillsdale Mall project and Astrid Varteresian’s Recology service concerns.
NEW BUSINESS
12. 
2025 Triennial Building Code Update — Ordinance Introduction
Michael Titsworth, Deputy Director and Building Official and Mary Eusebio, Deputy Building Official, gave the 
presentation.
Public Comment: There were no speakers.
Council asked questions and made comments.
Motion to adopt a Resolution to set forth express findings that amendments to the 2025 Building Standards 
Codes are reasonably necessary based on local climatic, topographical, or geological conditions; and, introduce 
an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23 “Buildings and Construction” to adopt the 2025 
Building Standards Code by reference with local amendments; amend various sections of San Mateo Municipal 
Code Title 23 “Buildings and Construction”; update procedural language and revise miscellaneous sections; add 
Chapter 23.29 “Wildland-Urban Interface Code”. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:     Diaz Nash, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki,
Ayes:         Diaz Nash, Cwirko-Godycki, Fernandez, and Newsom
Noes:     None
Enactment: Resolution No. 101 (2025)
13.
Establish the Civic Arts Committee as a Standing Commission – Ordinance Introduction
Jennifer Rosas, Business Manager, gave a presentation.
Public Comment: There were no speakers.
Council asked questions and made comments. Council discussed the proposed changes and directed staff to 
amend the Ordinance to include Youth Commissioners as part of the new Civic Arts Commission structure.
99 of 551

--- page 100 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 10/20/2025
Page 4
Motion to introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to add Chapter 2.22 and amend 
Chapter 23.60 to change the “Civic Arts Committee” to the “Civic Arts Commission,” establish its powers and 
duties, implement term limits and update the appointment process to align with other City boards and 
commissions. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:     Diaz Nash, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki,
Ayes:         Diaz Nash, Cwirko-Godycki, Fernandez, and Newsom
Noes:     None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council 
requests for scheduling future items. 
Councilmember Cwirko-Godycki reminded the public about the final community meeting on the Humboldt bike 
lane project, scheduled for next Monday at Fiesta Gardens School. Council clarified that the joint e-bike safety 
letter with Foster City is still under internal review. In response to public comment, Councilmember Fernandez 
requested a staff update on the Safe Routes to School Strategic Plan and the coordinator position; staff will 
provide an update in a future weekly report.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 8:28 p.m. Council moved to closed session in conference room C.
The Council adjourned with a moment of silence in memory of Chess Grandmaster Daniel Naroditsky.
CLOSED SESSION
14. 
Total Compensation Survey Methodology Meet and Confer Update — Various Bargaining Units.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
100 of 551

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 26-3111
File ID: 25-10429
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Application — Informational
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an overview of the proposed project, receive public comments, and provide early feedback and direction to the 
applicant and staff.
BACKGROUND:
On February 6, 2025, the applicant submitted a preliminary application for a housing development project under the 
Housing Accountability Act (HAA) (Government Code Section 65941.1). Once deemed complete, an eligible housing 
development project vests in development standards, fees, and regulations as they existed at the time of submission, 
provided that all required documents outlined in the City’s SB 330 Preliminary Application Checklist are provided 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/79071/Preliminary-Application-For-Housing-
Development?bidId=) . On March 20, 2025, with the submittal of all required information, the preliminary application was 
deemed complete. Following submittal of the preliminary application, both the applicant and the City sought clarification 
from the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) as to whether the project qualified as a “housing 
development project” pursuant to the HAA. As further discussed below, the HAA confers significant procedural and 
substantive protections to the project applicant, and the HAA must be interpreted and implemented to support housing 
development.
On August 12, 2025, HCD issued a technical assistance letter stating that the project qualified as a housing development 
project and was subject to the HAA (Attachment 1). The City then sought further clarification from HCD on the construction 
timing for residential components in this multi-phased mixed-use project. In a meeting on September 25, 2025, HCD staff 
verbally confirmed that jurisdictions may require the information listed in the City’s application submittal checklist to ensure 
that both the residential and commercial components are adequately planned. In other words, the City may require phasing 
information and add permitting requirements to support delivery of the residential components concurrently with the non-
residential components to ensure that the overall project continues to meet the criteria of a housing development project.
On June 20, 2025, the applicant submitted a formal planning application. The submission included a processing letter and 
consistency analysis, and a Master Development Plan set, both of which provided high-level information about the proposed 
project. However, the application did not include critical information, such as architectural design, building elevations, and 
detailed land uses and programs, even though these materials were required for the preliminary application to be deemed 
complete (Government Code Section 65941.1). On July 21, 2025, the City issued an incomplete letter based on the Planning 
Application Checklist for Non-Single-Family Projects (including SB330 applications). 
On October 17, 2025, the applicant resubmitted revised plans and application materials for the second round of review. 
Because this submission was received only a week and a half before agenda publication, this agenda report includes only 
101 of 551

--- page 102 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
high-level information from the second submittal. Staff from all reviewing departments are currently evaluating the updated 
application plans and documentation, with comments due by November 17, 2025. 
PROJECT SITE:
The project site consists of the main Hillsdale Shopping Center, bound by 31st Avenue to the north, El Camino Real to the 
east, Laurel Creek to the south, and Edison Street to the west, as well as a separate parcel consisting of a surface parking lot 
behind PetSmart Center on 36th Avenue, for a combined total of 32.66 acres. The shopping mall site and the surface parking 
lot are two separate parcels. The 12.03-acre North Block at Hillsdale Shopping Center, on the north side of 31st Avenue, is 
not part of the project site and will remain as currently developed. 
Proposed to be demolished as part of this project include the Hillsdale Shopping Center and associated parking structures, 
three commercial buildings that house Barnes & Noble, Trader Joe’s, and Wells Fargo/Citi Bank, as well as associated and 
standalone surface parking lots. Adjacent uses include a variety of commercial and residential uses:
•
North: Hillsdale North Block shopping mall
•
South: PetSmart and multi-family residential uses, separated from the project site by Laurel Creek
•
West: single-family uses 
•
East: Bay Meadow office development and single-family uses on the other side of El Camino Real and Railroad tracks.
In addition, the project site is located within ½-mile of major transit stops, which means that the project is exempt from all 
off-street parking requirements pursuant to AB 2097. The project site is also identified in the City’s 2023-2031 Housing 
Element as a housing opportunity site, with a potential capacity of 1,200 housing units. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The project proposes to demolish a significant portion of the Hillsdale Mall regional shopping center (approximately 1.5-
million square feet) and associated parking garage structures and subdivide the main mall site into 13 parcels through vesting 
tentative maps. The standalone surface parking lot at the south end of the project will remain as a separate parcel to be 
developed with residential uses. 
Conceptually, the main site is organized into four distinct land use zones: commercial zones along El Camino Real; a retail 
center in the northern portion of the site, providing a connection to the North Block; a residential zone along the western 
edge adjacent to Edison Street; and a flexible-use zone in the middle of site, bridging the commercial and residential areas.
To be specific, four newly created lots along El Camino Real are proposed to be office buildings ranging from five to ten 
stories, with potential ground-level retail spaces. The retail core is situated in two central blocks as standalone retail buildings 
and ground-level retail in two residential buildings. Residential development is concentrated on the western side, with five 
to eight-story apartment buildings in the mid-site area and a three to five-story apartment building and two rows of three 
to four-story townhomes along Edison Street as a transition zone to adjacent single-family residential neighborhood. The 
two central blocks between commercial and residential zones are programed as “flexible zones”, which may be developed 
with residential and/or commercial uses after the application approval. The Density Bonus Letter noted that the project 
would designate 14% of the total housing units for lower income (15% of the rental units for lower income household, and 
15% of the townhomes for moderate income).
The detailed land use information for each block was not included in the first-round submittal. A comparison of the overall 
land use programs between the preliminary application submittal and both formal application submittals is detailed in the 
table below. 
102 of 551

--- page 103 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Preliminary Application
Formal Application
1st Submission
Formal Application
2nd Submission
Existing Non-Residential Floor 
Area to be Demolished
1,490,331 sq. ft.
1,490,331 sq. ft.
1,490,331 sq. ft.
Residential Units
1,392 units
Up to 1,670 units
1,389 units1
Residential Floor Area
1,905,000 sq. ft.
Up to 2,390,800 sq. ft.
2,029,508 sq. ft.2
Non-Residential Floor Area
2,059,000 sq. ft.
Up to 2,056,000 sq. ft.
2,105,866 sq. ft.3
Parking
5,390 spaces
No Information provided
4,963 spaces
 
The Cover Letter from the applicant (Attachment 2) provides more information and details about the proposed project, and 
a condensed version of the project plans is included as Attachment 3.  Additional information about the project can be found 
on the City’s Current Development page (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4856/Hillsdale-Mall-Redevelopment---Mixed-
Use).
DISCUSSION:
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA) sets processing deadlines and rigid review procedures for housing development 
projects. For example, the formal application is expected to be deemed complete within three cycles of review pursuant to 
Government Code section 65943. Otherwise, the City bears the burden to demonstrate that the incompleteness 
determination does not constitute an effective disapproval of the project. The HAA also prohibits jurisdictions from 
disapproving or conditionally approving a housing development project in a manner that renders the project infeasible, 
unless the project has a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety (Government Code Section 65589.5(d)). 
Equally important, the HAA only allows a jurisdiction to apply objective, quantifiable, written development standards, 
conditions, and policies in a manner to facilitate and accommodate development at the density permitted on the site and 
proposed by the development. 
Thus, the City Council’s discretionary authority is significantly limited regarding conditions and requirements that can be 
imposed on this project because of state housing laws regarding housing development projects.  In the past, the adoption 
of a Specific Plan or master development plan for a project of this size and scale would be a legislative action conducted 
through a discretionary review process, and potentially utilizing a development agreement, allowing the Planning 
Commission and City Council to set specific requirements and modifications based on the community and site-specific needs, 
and all applicable City plans, policies, and standards. 
Based on this context, staff has developed a list of high priority issues for the City Council to consider as part of this study 
session.
•
Issue 1 – Project Timeline and Phasing Plan
As currently submitted, the application does not include a timeline or phasing plan. In their original submittal, the 
applicant stated that the timeline is “not required in City published application checklist” and “specific phasing and 
sequence is expected to vary based on market conditions at the time of redevelopment to ensure Project 
financeability.” Based on the applicant’s Hillsdale Reimagined Website, the complete redevelopment is estimated 
to occur in phases over the next 20 years, which is also referenced in the applicant-held neighborhood meeting on 
April 29, 2025. 
Staff are actively working with the applicant and consulting with HCD to ensure that the project is processed and 
constructed in compliance with the state law and local regulations. Absence of phasing and timeline information 
1 Up to 1,670 units identified on Master Plan Document
2 Up to 2,390,800 sq.ft. identified on Master Plan Document
3 Up to 2,059,000 sq.ft. identified on Master Plan Document
103 of 551

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
adds uncertainty given the project’s complexity and extended duration. Key technical studies, such as utility capacity 
analysis, water supply assessment, and traffic analysis, also depend on the project’s phasing plan. 
As a housing development project, the application is subject to a tight timeline and limited to three rounds of review 
to determine application completeness with City requirements. Each of these review cycles starts with a 30-day City 
review, followed by a 90-day period for the applicant to respond to City comments. Based on three rounds of review, 
the project’s completeness review would finish in March 2026. 
Crucially, the phasing of residential development remains unclear, and City staff are continuing to work with the 
applicant to help support delivery of residential components concurrently and proportionately with non-
residential components consistent with the City’s BMR guidelines.  As stated above, this is to ensure that the overall 
project delivers housing units as the commercial components are built.
After review for completeness, the City must provide written documentation identifying any inconsistencies with 
local regulations within 60 days of being deemed complete (Government Code Section 65589.5(j)(2)(A)(ii)). A list of 
policies and codes in the City’s General Plan, adopted plans and the Zoning Code that may be applicable to the 
project is included as Attachment 4. The applicant is expected to address all the inconsistency issues while the 
environmental (CEQA) analysis prepared. Following completion of the environmental review, the City must schedule 
public hearings to consider approval of the project. 
•
Issue  2 – Regional Shopping Center Designation and Community Serving Commercial
The Hillsdale Station Area Plan (HSAP) identifies the Hillsdale Mall as a regional retail and employment center, while 
also recognizing its potential for housing development opportunities (Policy LU-2.4). The HSAP anticipates that any 
major modification to the mall or surrounding properties would require preparation of a comprehensive master 
plan. When the HSAP was adopted, such a master plan was typically processed through discretionary review and 
adopted as a legislative action. However, this process is no longer applicable to a housing development project, 
unless the applicant voluntarily engages with the City in a conversation to preserve the regional retail function 
consistent with the Area Plan’s vision.
The proposed demolition of approximately 1.5 million square feet of existing retail and commercial space, along 
with associated parking, and its replacement with only ground-level retail space would represent a significant loss 
of regional commercial activity. Approval of the Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment project as currently proposed would 
leave the City with BridgePoint as the sole remaining regional retail center. However, the redevelopment of the site 
and added office uses will support increased property tax revenue and local jobs. To fully assess these issues, the 
City will be engaging an economic consultant and retail consultant to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the 
proposed project, including how it will impact the local economy and City revenues. 
Furthermore, the project proposes to develop “up to” 1,670 new housing units (or 1,389 units as identified on the 
last submitted Plan Set ) which will generate substantial demand for community-serving retail and commercial 
services. For comparison, Bay Meadows Phase I included 734 residential units and 300,000 square feet of 
retail/commercial space, and Phase II included 1,048 homes and 150,000 square feet of retail/commercial space. 
Although the applicant introduces a grocery store in Building E1 as part of the second-round submittal, the total 
amount and type of proposed retail/commercial space is still undefined. To help meet the needs of both existing 
and new residents, it would be ideal for the project to include sufficient space for retail and commercial service 
businesses to serve local needs and continue to be a regional destination.
•
Issue 3 – Pedestrian Connection to Hillsdale Caltrain Station
Since the project is exempt from parking requirements under state law, a strong connection to the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station and transit along El Camino Real is critical to maximize transit use and support the viability of reduced off-
street parking. Implementing a pedestrian bridge linking the station and the mall across El Camino Real would not 
only enhance connectivity but also improve pedestrian safety, encourage transit-oriented development, and 
strengthen the overall vitality of the site.
104 of 551

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Issue 4 – Off-Street Parking
The project proposes extensive ground-level parking for both residential and commercial buildings, rather than 
maximizing ground-level retail space, which could result in a suboptimal pedestrian experience along El Camino Real 
and the newly created internal streets. A standalone parking structure (Building C5) is also proposed in the center 
of this site. Because the project is located within one-half mile of Hillsdale Caltrain Station, the City cannot impose 
any parking requirements pursuant to AB 2097. The applicant, however, may voluntarily work with the City to locate 
parking strategically to maximize both the feasibility and vitality of the project.
•
Issue 5 – Traffic and Circulation
Under SB 743 (Public Resources Code Section 21099), if a project is located within one-half mile of a major transit 
stop, the project may be presumed to have a less-than-significant Vehicle Mile Traveled (VMT) impact, especially for 
residential and office uses, unless substantial evidence shows otherwise. In other words, projects near transit can 
streamline traffic analysis under CEQA. However, General Plan 2040’s Circulation Element, specifically policies C 6.3 
and C 6.4, require site-specific transportation impact analysis following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) Policy for development projects. City staff is currently working with its consultant team to prepare a 
transportation impact analysis (TIA) to evaluate the project and what improvements will be needed to minimize any 
potential impacts.
•
Issue 6 – Site and Architectural Design Standards
The architectural design, submitted in the second-round submittal, is under staff review to evaluate its consistency 
with San Mateo’s Objective Design Standards. At a high level, staff will focus on the overall design quality of the 
tallest office buildings fronting along El Camino Real, the compatibility of the proposed residential buildings with the 
surrounding neighborhood, and the quality of ground-level interfaces with the public realm.
•
Issue 7 – Environmental Review
The applicant is seeking a CEQA exemption pursuant to Section 15183, which would allow the project to tier off of 
a previously certified program-level Environmental Impact Report (EIR) when the project is consistent with the 
underlying general plan and its policies. In this case, the applicant proposes to tier from the General Plan 2040 EIR, 
arguing that the Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment project falls within the scope of the General Plan’s land use and 
development policies, thereby streamlining the environmental review process. However, if there are any site-
specific impacts that require further study, the project would not be eligible for this exemption. For the proposed 
project, factors such as (but not limited to) water supply, utility capacity, construction traffic, noise and vibration, 
air quality, and proximity to Laurel Creek could indicate potential site-specific significant effects, which would 
require preparation of an initial study and/or EIR. The project, however, is exempt from VMT analysis and aesthetic 
impact review under SB 743, as it is located within one-half mile of a major transit stop. 
Staff is seeking input from the City Council on the project, including but not limited to the discussion topics outlined above. 
Early feedback from the Council and the public will help inform the next steps of the application process to the extent 
possible and will assist the applicant in further updating and refining the design of the proposed project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065). The level of environmental review required for this 
project is still being assessed.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this Study 
Session was noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the meeting: 
•
Over 2,800 property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local utilities, 
105 of 551

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Project email subscription list; 
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list;
•
Twelve 18”x24” Placards placed by the applicant at each side of the project site facing the access points; and
•
Email recipients of Citywide Planning eNews and Citywide eNews, as well as social media followers.
All public comments that have been received since notices were mailed out are included as Attachment 5. Any additional 
public comments submitted after agenda publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post 
Packet Public Comments.”
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – HCD Technical Assistant Letter
Att 2 – Applicant Cover Letter (2nd Submission)
Att 3 – Project Plans (2nd Submission)
Att 4 – Applicable Local Codes and Policies
Att 5 – Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner 
eling@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216
106 of 551

--- page 107 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - BUSINESS, CONSUMER SERVICES AND HOUSING AGENCY 
GAVIN NEWSOM, Governor 
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
DIVISION OF HOUSING POLICY DEVELOPMENT 
651 Bannon Street, Suite 400 
Sacramento, CA  95811 
(916) 263-2911 / FAX (916) 263-7453 
www.hcd.ca.gov 
 
 
 
August 12, 2025 
 
 
 
Sung Kwon 
Deputy Director of Community Development 
City of San Mateo 
Via: skwon@cityofsanmateo.org 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Sung Kwon: 
 
RE: City of San Mateo – 60 E 31st Avenue – Letter of Technical Assistance 
 
The California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) received a 
request from the applicant of the proposed project at 60 E 31st Avenue (Project) 
regarding qualification as a housing development project under the Housing 
Accountability Act (HAA). Additionally, City of San Mateo (City) staff requested 
assistance with construction deadlines and the potential for expanding the number of 
review periods under the HAA and the Permit Streamlining Act (PSA). 
 
Background 
 
The Project is proposed on the site of the existing Hillsdale Mall. The Project proposes 
to demolish approximately 1.5 million square feet of commercial space and to construct 
2 million square feet of commercial space and 569,000 square feet of residential area. 
The residential portion will be comprised of 1,392 units, including 209 units restricted to 
low-income households.  
 
The Project applicant submitted a preliminary application on February 5, 2025. The City 
provided a letter determining that the preliminary application was incomplete on March 
7, 2025, with the applicant responding to the incomplete letter on March 20, 2025. The 
City provided a follow-up clarification letter on March 28, 2025, primarily citing concerns 
about the Project’s eligibility as a housing development project under the HAA.  
 
 
 
107 of 551

--- page 108 ---
Sung Kwon, Deputy Director of Community Development 
Page 2 
 
 
 
Question: What qualifies as a “housing development project” under Government 
Code section 65589.5, subdivision (h)(2)(B)(iii)? 
 
To qualify for protections under the HAA, a project must meet the definition of a 
“housing development project.” The HAA provides several avenues to meet this 
definition.1 The Project is specifically seeking to meet the criteria under Government 
Code section 65589.5, subdivision (h)(2)(B)(iii), under which “[a]t least 50 percent of the 
net new or converted square footage is designated for residential use” and the Project 
meets additional criteria. 
 
HCD finds that the Project meets the 50 percent residential minimum as proposed. The 
statute specifically states “net new” when discussing square footage of construction. 
The net new square footage for the Project is calculated by subtracting the existing 
square footage from the total proposed new square footage, which gives 1.07 million 
square feet. Because the residential portion of the Project is 569,000 square feet, 
approximately 53 percent of the net new square footage is residential. 
 
Under Government Code section 65589.5, subdivision (h)(2)(B)(iii), the Project must 
also contain at least 500 net new residential units, involve the demolition or conversion 
of at least 100,000 square feet of nonresidential space, demolish at least 50 percent of 
existing nonresidential uses, and must not contain transient lodging. The Project meets 
these thresholds by proposing to develop 1,392 new residential units and to demolish all 
1.5 million square feet of existing nonresidential space and replace it with 2 million 
square feet of commercial space and 569,000 square feet of residential space. The 
Project does not include transient lodging. Therefore, HCD finds that all these criteria, 
plus the 50 percent residential minimum, are met. Thus, the Project qualifies as a 
housing development project under the HAA.  
 
Question: Does the entire project remain vested once construction begins on a 
single building—potentially a commercial-only building—or must construction 
commence on all buildings (including residential) within the 2.5-year period? 
 
The HAA states that the application will lose vesting of the preliminary application under 
Government Code section 65941.1 if the housing development project has not 
commenced construction within 2.5 years, or 3.5 years for an affordable housing 
project, following the date that the project receives final approval.2 Statute does not 
specify the types or ratios of construction that must be commenced. Therefore, a 
commercial-only building that is part of an overall proposed project would satisfy the 
construction deadline for the purpose of maintaining vesting. In other words, the entire 
proposal is considered a “housing development project,” including the commercial 
component, and starting construction on any aspect (residential or nonresidential) 
maintains vesting.  
 
1 Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subd. (h)(2). 
2 Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subd. (o)(2)(D). 
108 of 551

--- page 109 ---
Sung Kwon, Deputy Director of Community Development 
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
Question: Can a jurisdiction extend the number of incompleteness 
determinations under the PSA? 
 
The HAA requires that applications for housing development projects be deemed 
complete within the timeframes stated in Government Code section 65943, also known 
as the Permit Streamlining Act (PSA).3 If after two resubmittals of the application, the 
City finds the application is incomplete, the City bears the burden of showing the finding 
of incompleteness is not an effective disapproval of the project. The City may not extend 
the number of incompleteness determinations without justification from the City or if the 
applicant agrees to extend the number of determinations voluntarily. The HAA and PSA 
are intended to streamline the application process, and additional review cycles would 
be contrary to that intent. 
 
Conclusion 
 
HCD finds that the Project qualifies as a housing development project under the HAA 
and urges City staff to process the application accordingly. Additionally, it should be 
noted that construction deadlines under the HAA may be satisfied with commencement 
of any part of the Project (residential or nonresidential), and the number of review 
periods may only be extended if either the applicant voluntarily agrees or the City can 
provide justification for remaining incomplete items. 
 
If you have any questions regarding the content of this letter or would like additional 
technical assistance, please contact Bentley Regehr at bentley.regehr@hcd.ca.gov.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
David Zisser 
Assistant Deputy Director 
Local Government Relations and Accountability 
 
3 Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subd. (h)(6)(F)(iv). 
109 of 551

--- page 110 ---
October 17, 2025 
 
Ms. Elaine Ling 
City of San Mateo 
Community Development Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Subject:  Cover Letter - Hillsdale Reimagined Master Development Plan & Vesting   
 
     Tentative Map Resubmission (PA-2025-052) 
 
Dear Ms. Ling, 
 
On behalf of HSC Property Owner, LLC (the “Owner” and “Applicant”), we are pleased to respond 
to the City of San Mateo’s July 21, 2025 incompleteness letter (“Incompleteness Letter”) by 
resubmitting revised Master Development Plan (“MDP”) and Vesting Tentative Map (“VTM”) 
application materials (collectively, the “Resubmission Materials”) for Hillsdale Reimagined—also 
referred to as the Hillsdale District (the “Project”). This resubmittal responds comprehensively to 
the City’s recent Incompleteness Letter comments. 
 
Since our last submission, our team has made a concerted effort to respond fully and thoughtfully 
to each of the City’s comments. In every instance, even where a comment extended beyond the 
explicit requirements of the submission checklist, we have sought to provide information that 
directly addresses the City’s feedback and advances our shared goal of a thorough, transparent, 
and collaborative review process. 
 
This resubmittal addresses all of the City’s comments in order to achieve “completeness” under 
SB330, and we look forward to moving the planning process forward with City staff 
collaboratively.  We also recognize and appreciate that the totality of the information contained in 
this re-submittal is substantial and that the resources and effort required of staff to process this 
application is significant. To that end, we are eager to continue working closely with staff to ensure 
that each element is well understood and properly documented, and we will make ourselves 
available to meet  as frequently as the City finds helpful during its follow-up review. 
 
Summary of Key Updates 
In addition to fully addressing the City’s comments, this submittal further develops and refines 
several substantive aspects of the Project: 
 
• Open Space/Public Realm: The distinct identities and designs of the various open spaces 
within the project have been further developed – from the grassy expanse of Hillsdale 
Square to the planter-lined greenway of the Neighborhood Passage. Taken together, the 
site plan weaves together a diverse and extensive open space network that provides a 
variety of uses and activities that will not only activate the property throughout the day and 
Sixty 31st Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403-3404 
 
 
 
 
110 of 551

--- page 111 ---
evening, but will serve the needs and desires of the community, ranging from immediate 
neighbors and those coming from further away, to future office workers and those that will 
someday call Hillsdale home. 
 
• Building Architecture: Although we believe the architectural form of each building will 
continue to evolve significantly after completeness and then furthermore during subsequent 
SPAR applications, this resubmittal package includes elevations and architecture for each 
building so that the community has more information about what the project could look 
like upon completion.  
 
• Retail and Ground Plane: Throughout the design and engagement process, we have 
emphasized that the ground plane is the most important element of the project, as this is 
the space through which the majority of visitors, shoppers, residents, and workers will 
experience. Although the 20th-century version of mall retailing is disappearing, 
appropriately sized, vibrant, and activated retail districts such as those proposed for 
Hillsdale are thriving. The updated plans demonstrate how a series of two-sided streets and 
plazas, accommodate uses that are “outward facing” and engage with the activated public 
open space, that come together to create a larger overall district.  Additionally, a large-
format grocer has been programmed into the ground level of the E1 building at the corner 
of El Camino and 31st avenue, reflecting both the feedback and desires that we have heard 
from the community, as well as reflecting the flexibility of the building footprints and their 
ability to accommodate a myriad of uses.  
 
• Illustrative Renderings: Finally, we have included illustrative photorealistic renderings 
within the updated submission to better convey how one would feel experiencing different 
parts of the redeveloped property.  While these images provide a clearer sense of place and 
design intent, we understand and expect that the architecture will continue to evolve, and 
these photorealistic renderings are intended to convey the general intent, with respect to 
scale, quality, organization, and use. They purposely do not directly correspond with the 
architectural elevations in the remaining portions of the Application Checklist Plan set, as 
these renderings are intended to be a launching point for ongoing architectural discussion 
and refinement after completeness. 
 
We understand that project refinement is an iterative process. While this resubmission represents 
a significant advancement and a complete response to the City’s comments, we fully expect—and 
welcome—additional collaboration and refinement after the City deems the application complete. 
Our team looks forward to ongoing dialogue to ensure the Project continues to evolve in a way 
that reflects both the City’s objectives and the community’s aspirations. 
 
Ongoing Coordination 
In parallel with preparing this formal resubmittal that responds to the City’s Incompleteness Letter 
comments, we have advanced several items that we understand are of particular importance to the 
City: 
 
111 of 551

--- page 112 ---
• Grocery Store Programming: As described above, a grocery store has been incorporated 
into the resubmitted plans. While the ability to bring a grocer is largely market driven, we 
agree with the community that it is a key amenity which would serve both the neighborhood 
and the Project’s future residents, workers, and visitors. 
 
• Retail Activation and Ground Plane Design: We have detailed the proposed uses and 
functions of the ground floor environments to illustrate the extent and immersive quality 
of the envisioned retail experience. Outside of the submission materials, we have prepared 
some merchandising and demising plans which help to give a sense of the number of and 
types of tenants that this plan accommodates and that we see as being part of the 
development.  Although it is impossible to confirm who the future retailers will be, we are 
prepared to share additional materials on the likely storefront breakdown and the target 
types of tenants that we envision. 
 
• Fiscal Impact Study: We have had an outside consultant complete a fiscal impact study 
that assesses the impact of the redevelopment project on the City’s finances.  We would 
welcome an immediate post-submission meeting to review the results, which projects that 
the City will gain approximately $1.3M-$2.2M in additional net annual revenue compared 
with the current and future operation of the current shopping center. 
 
• Construction Phasing, Logistics, and Mitigation Plan: In parallel with the advancement 
of the resubmission materials, we have also prepared an initial document that outlines the 
likely construction phasing, timing, logistics, and impact mitigations.  Although it will be 
impossible to have no impact during construction of this magnitude, we understand how 
important it is for the community to optimize construction logistics to reduce its impact on 
the surrounding residential neighborhoods and on important commuter paths.  We would 
welcome an immediate post-submission opportunity to review these plans with the City. 
 
• El Camino Real-31st Avenue Crossing:  Finally, the design team has developed a concept 
for one option of how an improved El Camino Real and 31st Avenue crossing experience 
could be achieved by necking down the crossing distance on the northern side of the 
intersection. As expressed previously, this particular location is challenged by the roadway 
geometry that must account for El Camino widening to accommodate its highway-like 
trenching along most of the project site.  Nonetheless, we believe there are some possible 
improvements that could enhance the connectivity with the Caltrain station, and we would 
welcome coordination with the City so we can initiate a coordinated ask of Caltrans to 
consider the improvements. 
 
For all of these auxiliary items, we look forward to reviewing these materials with the City at its 
convenience. 
 
We sincerely appreciate the time and effort that City staff continues to invest in reviewing and 
collaborating on the application for this transformative project. We believe this resubmittal reflects 
our shared commitment to advancing the Hillsdale District toward a complete and compelling 
112 of 551

--- page 113 ---
plan—one that will continue to serve as a cornerstone of San Mateo’s future growth, economic 
vitality, and community life. 
 
We look forward to continuing to work together as the City completes its review of this package 
and as we refine the Project after completeness. 
 
Below is a list of materials included in the resubmission package: 
 
1. Resubmission Cover Letter (this document) 
2. Incompleteness Letter Response Matrix 
3. Application Resubmittal Processing Letter 
4. Master Development Plan 
5. Master Development Plan Appendix 
6. Application Checklist Plan Set 
7. Vesting Tentative Map Set 
8. Preliminary Title Report 
9. CEQA Environmental Information Form, Appendix H 
10. Preliminary Geotechnical Report 
11. Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
12. ALTA Survey 
13. Hazardous Materials and Air Quality Checklist 
14. BMR Unit and Density Bonus Form 
15. Density Bonus Request Letter 
16. Project Application Checklist for NPDES Permit (C.3 and C.6 Development Review 
Checklist) 
17. NPDES Impervious Surface Data Collection Worksheet 
18. Stormwater Treatment Measures Maintenance Agreement 
19. Wastewater Masterplan 
20. Water Masterplan 
21. Water Conservation Landscape Form 
22. Preliminary Historic Assessment 
23. Lead Paint Management Plan with Mitigation Measures and Recommendations 
24. Asbestos Operations and Maintenance Program with Mitigation Measures and 
Recommendations 
25. General Plan Zoning Analysis and Consistency Analysis 
 
 
Sincerely, 
David D. Bohannon II 
HSC Property Owner, LLC 
113 of 551

--- page 114 ---
Applicant / Owner:
HILLSDALE REIMAGINED
Project Address:
358 EAST SAILER DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
Issued Information:
PLANNER
GEHL, INC.
207 POWELL STREET, 6TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
MIKAELA STRECH
MIKAELA.STRECH@GEHLPEOPLE.COM
415 535 1255
MASTER PLAN/ COMMERCIAL ARCHITECT
HELLMUTH, OBATA, & KASSABAUM, INC.
ONE BUSH STREET, SUITE #200
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94104
RAQUEL BITO
RAQUEL.BITO@HOK.COM
415 356 8566
RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECT
BDE ARCHITECTURE, INC.
950 HOWARD STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
IAN MURPHY
IMURPHY@BDEARCH.COM
415 967 6813
CIVIL ENGINEER
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
4637 CHABOT DRIVE, SUITE 300
PLEASANTON, CA 94588
MIKE MOWERY
MIKE.MOWERY@KIMLEY-HORN.COM
650 533 4697
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
1300 CLAY STREET, SUITE 900
OAKLAND, CA 94612
NICOLE KELLY
NICOLE.KELLY@KIMLEY-HORN.COM
510 250 2105
PARKING CIVIL ENGINEER
KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.
4637 CHABOT DRIVE, SUITE 300
PLEASANTON, CA 94588
BLAKE CLAMP & TAYLER SEDERQUEST
BLAKE.CLAMP@KIMLEY-HORN.COM
TAYLER.SEDERQUEST@KIMLEY-HORN.COM
HSC PROPERTY OWNER LLC
60 E 31ST AVENUE, 
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
DAVID D. BOHANNON II
DAVID.BOHANNON@DDBO.COM
650-358-3220
ANDREW TURCO
ATURCO@SRGNC.COM
650-377-5808
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLAN SET
OCT 17, 2025
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA
APN:
039-490-170
039-490-050
042-1210060
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
GENERAL PLAN 2040 MIXED-USE 
MEDIUM II AND MIXED-USE HIGH 
LOT SIZE (SQ.FT):
PROJECT BOUNDARY AREA: 32.66 ACRES, 32.66X43,560 = 1,422,670 SQ. FT.
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO:
GENERAL PLAN 2040 MIXED-USE MEDIUM II: 4.0 FAR (COMMERCIAL) & 99 DU/AC. (RESIDENTIAL)
GENERAL PLAN 2040 MIXED-USE HIGH: 4.5 FAR (COMMERCIAL) & 130 DU/AC. (RESIDENTIAL)
FLOOR AREA (SQ.FT):
EXISTING
1,490,331 (INCL ABOVE GROUND COVERED PARKING) / 
1,848,331 (INCL ABOVE GROUND COVERED PARKING 
AND BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
PROPOSED
4,135,374 (INCL ABOVE GROUND COVERED PARKING)  /
4,981,022 (INCL ABOVE GROUND COVERED PARKING 
AND BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
EXISTING INTERIOR FLOOR AREA TO BE REMODELED:
0 SF
TOTAL FLOOR AREA FOR PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
2,783,145.9 SF
TOTAL COVERED PARKING STALLS ABOVE & BELOW GRADE:
4,528
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS:
435
LIST OF ALL TREES ON SITE INCLUDING SPECIES AND SIZE:
SEE L001 SHEET
TOTAL AREA OF NEW AND REHABILITATED LANDSCAPE AREA (SQ.FT): 
140,600 SF
CUBIC YARD OF SOIL DISTURBANCE: 
83,600 CY
(REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE IF A STORMWATER POLLUTION 
PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMIT IS REQUIRED)
DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
EXCEPTIONS
TOTAL FLOOR AREA
RESIDENTIAL PROJECT DATA (SB330)
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT COUNT: 1,389 UNITS
BIKE PARKING
TOTAL LONG-TERM BIKE PARKING:
1,871, LOCATED WITHIN BUILDINGS, SEE BUILDING PLANS
TOTAL SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING: 1,230, LOCATED WITHIN SITE, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS
MAIN STRUCTURES 
N/A
N/A
1,490,331
N/A
N/A
4,135,374
MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA 
5,610,418 SF
& MAXIMUM PERMITTED DU:
& 3,373 DU
FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.) (INCLUDING BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
PROJECT EXISTING TOTAL
NEW PROJECT TOTAL
NEW RESIDENTIAL
NET NEW (INCLUDING BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
RESIDENTIAL % OF NET NEW
1,848,331
4,981,022
2,294,680
3,132,691
73%
FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.) (NOT INCLUDING BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
PROJECT EXISTING TOTAL
NEW PROJECT TOTAL
NEW RESIDENTIAL
NET NEW (INCLUDING BELOW GRADE LEVELS)
RESIDENTIAL % OF NET NEW
1,490,331
4,135,374
2,029,508
2,645,043
77%
114 of 551

--- page 115 ---
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:40:18 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
INDEX
23.04025.00
2025
G001
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
1 GENERAL
G000
COVER SHEET
X
G001
INDEX
X
G003
PROJECT INFORMATION
X
G010
EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
X
G011
EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
X
G013
EXTERIOR MATERIAL SCHEDULE
X
G014
EXTERIOR MATERIAL SCHEDULE
X
G015
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G016
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G017
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G018
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G019
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G020
PROPOSED SITE RENDERINGS
X
G030
OVERALL FLOOR AREA PLAN
X
G031
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - W1
X
G032
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - W2
X
G033
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - W3
X
G034
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - C1 & C2
X
G035
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - C3
X
G036
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - C4
X
G037
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - C5
X
G038
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - E1
X
G039
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - E2
X
G040
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - E3
X
G041
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - S1
X
G042
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - S2
X
G043
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - S3
X
G044
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAMS - S4
X
G101
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G102
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G103
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G104
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G105
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G106
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G107
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G108
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G109
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G110
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G111
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G112
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G113
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G114
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G115
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G116
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G117
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G118
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G119
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G120
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G121
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G122
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G123
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G124
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G125
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G126
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G127
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G128
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G129
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G130
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G131
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G132
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G133
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G134
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G135
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
G136
SITE SHADOW STUDY
X
1 GENERAL: 64
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
02 CIVIL
C100
OVERALL EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C101
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C102
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C103
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C104
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C105
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
C110
EXISTING CONDITIONS BASEMENT
X
C150
OVERALL DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C151
DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C152
DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C153
DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C154
DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C155
DEMOLITION PLAN
X
C160
DEMOLITION PLAN  BASEMENT
X
C200
OVERALL SITE PLAN
X
C201
SITE PLAN
X
C202
SITE PLAN
X
C203
SITE PLAN
X
C204
SITE PLAN
X
C205
SITE PLAN
X
C250
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
X
C300
OVERALL GRADING PLAN
X
C301
GRADING PLAN
X
C302
GRADING PLAN
X
C303
GRADING PLAN
X
C304
GRADING PLAN
X
C305
GRADING PLAN
X
C400
OVERALL UTILITY PLAN
X
C401
UTILITY PLAN
X
C402
UTILITY PLAN
X
C403
UTILITY PLAN
X
C404
UTILITY PLAN
X
C405
UTILITY PLAN
X
C600
STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
X
C601
STORMWATER CONTROL DETAILS
X
02 CIVIL: 35
03 LANDSCAPE
L000
COVER SHEET
X
L001
TREE DISPOSITION NOTES AND SCHEDULE
X
L002
TREE DISPOSITION PLAN - OVERALL
X
L003
TREE DISPOSITION
X
L004
TREE DISPOSITION
X
L005
TREE DISPOSITION
X
L006
TREE DISPOSITION
X
L007
TREE DISPOSITION
X
L100
LANDSCAPE KEY PLAN
X
L101
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN
X
L102
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN
X
L103
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN
X
L104
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN
X
L105
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN
X
L300A
LANDCAPE NOTES
X
L301
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
X
L302
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
X
L303
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
X
L304
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
X
L305
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN
X
L400
HYDROZONE NOTES
X
L401
LANDSCAPE HYDROZONE PLAN
X
L402
LANDSCAPE HYDROZONE PLAN
X
L403
LANDSCAPE HYDROZONE PLAN
X
L404
LANDSCAPE HYDROZONE PLAN
X
L405
LANDSCAPE HYDROZONE PLAN
X
L501
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN
X
L502
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN
X
L503
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN
X
L504
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN
X
L505
LANDSCAPE LIGHTING PLAN
X
L801
LANDCAPE REFERENCE IMAGES - HARDSCAPE
X
L802
LANDCAPE REFERENCE IMAGES - FURNITURE
X
L803
LANDCAPE REFERENCE IMAGES - LIGHTING
X
L804
LANDCAPE REFERENCE IMAGES - PLANTING
X
L805
LANDCAPE REFERENCE IMAGES - PLANTING
X
03 LANDSCAPE: 36
04 SITE PLAN
A001
BASEMENT LEVEL 2 SITE PLAN
X
A002
BASEMENT LEVEL 1 SITE PLAN
X
A003
GROUND LEVEL SITE PLAN
X
04 SITE PLAN: 3
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
05 W1 BLDG
W1-A101A
W1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
X
W1-A101B
W1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
X
W1-A102A
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE A
X
W1-A102B
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE B
X
W1-A103A
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE A
X
W1-A103B
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE B
X
W1-A104A
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
X
W1-A104B
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
X
W1-A300
W1 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
W1-A301
W1 - ELEVATIONS
X
W1-A302
W1 - ELEVATIONS
X
W1-A303
W1 - ELEVATIONS
X
W1-A304
W1 - ELEVATIONS
X
W1-A351
W1 - BUILDING SECTION
X
05 W1 BLDG: 14
06 W2 BLDG
W2-A100
W2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
W2-A101
W2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
W2-A102
W2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
W2-A103
W2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
W2-A104
W2 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
X
W2-A105
W2 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
X
W2-A106
W2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
W2-A300
W2 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
W2-A301
W2 - ELEVATIONS
X
W2-A302
W2 - ELEVATIONS
X
W2-A303
W2 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
W2-A351
W2 - BUILDING SECTION
X
W2-A451
W2 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
06 W2 BLDG: 13
07 W3 BLDG
W3-A100
W3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
W3-A101
W3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
W3-A102
W3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
W3-A103
W3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
W3-A104
W3 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
X
W3-A105
W3 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
X
W3-A106
W3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
W3-A300
W3 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
W3-A301
W3 - ELEVATIONS
X
W3-A302
W3 - ELEVATIONS
X
W3-A303
W3 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
W3-A351
W3 - BUILDING SECTION
X
W3-A451
W3 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
07 W3 BLDG: 13
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
08 C1 BLDG
C1-A100
C1-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
C1-A101
C1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
C1-A102
C1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
C1-A300
C1 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
C1-A301
C1 - ELEVATIONS
X
C1-A351
C1 - BUILDING SECTION
X
08 C1 BLDG: 6
09 C2 BLDG
C2-A101
C2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
C2-A102
C2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
C2-A300
C2 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
C2-A301
C2 - ELEVATIONS
X
C2-A351
C2 - BUILDING SECTION
X
09 C2 BLDG: 5
10 C3 BLDG
C3-A100
C3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
C3-A101
C3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
C3-A102
C3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
C3-A103
C3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
C3-A104
C3 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
X
C3-A105
C3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
X
C3-A106
C3 - LEVEL 6-7 PLAN
X
C3-A107
C3 - LEVEL 8 PLAN
X
C3-A108
C3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
C3-A300
C3 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
C3-A301
C3 - ELEVATIONS
X
C3-A302
C3 - ELEVATIONS
X
C3-A303
C3 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
C3-A351
C3 - BUILDING SECTION
X
C3-A451
C3 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
10 C3 BLDG: 15
11 C4 BLDG
C4-A100
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
C4-A101
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
C4-A102
C4 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
C4-A103
C4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
C4-A104
C4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
C4-A105
C4 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
X
C4-A106
C4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
X
C4-A107
C4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
C4-A300
C4 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
C4-A301
C4 - ELEVATIONS
X
C4-A302
C4 - ELEVATIONS
X
C4-A303
C4 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
C4-A351
C4 - BUILDING SECTION
X
C4-A451
C4 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
11 C4 BLDG: 14
12 C5 BLDG
C5-A100
C5 - BASEMENT LEVEL PLAN
X
C5-A101
C5 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
C5-A102
C5 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
C5-A103
C5 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
C5-A104
C5 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
X
C5-A105
C5 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
X
C5-A106
C5 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
X
C5-A107
C5 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
X
C5-A300
C5 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
C5-A301
C5 - ELEVATIONS
X
C5-A302
C5 - ELEVATIONS
X
C5-A351
C5 - BUILDING SECTIONS
X
12 C5 BLDG: 12
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
13 E1 BLDG
E1-A100
E1-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
E1-A101
E1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
E1-A102
E1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
E1-A103
E1 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
X
E1-A104
E1 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
X
E1-A105
E1 - LEVEL 7 TYP. PLAN
X
E1-A106
E1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
E1-A300
E1 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
E1-A301
E1 - ELEVATIONS
X
E1-A302
E1 - ELEVATIONS
X
E1-A303
E1 - ELEVATIONS
X
E1-A351
E1 - BUILDING SECTION
X
E1-A401
E1 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
13 E1 BLDG: 13
14 E2 BLDG
E2-A100
E2-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
E2-A101
E2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
E2-A102
E2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
E2-A103
E2 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
X
E2-A104
E2 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
X
E2-A105
E2 - LEVEL 7 TYP. PLAN
X
E2-A106
E2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
E2-A300
E2 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
E2-A301
E2 - ELEVATIONS
X
E2-A302
E2 - ELEVATIONS
X
E2-A303
E2 - ELEVATIONS
X
E2-A351
E2 - BUILDING SECTION
X
E2-A401
E2 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
14 E2 BLDG: 13
15 E3 BLDG
E3-A100
E3-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
E3-A101
E3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
E3-A102
E3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
E3-A103
E3 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
X
E3-A104
E3 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
X
E3-A105
E3 - LEVEL 7-8 PLAN
X
E3-A106
E3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
E3-A300
E3 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
E3-A301
E3 - ELEVATIONS
X
E3-A302
E3 - ELEVATIONS
X
E3-A303
E3 - ELEVATIONS
X
E3-A351
E3 - BUILDING SECTION
X
E3-A401
E3 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
15 E3 BLDG: 13
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
SHEET
NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
10-17-2025 SET
16 S1 BLDG
S1-A100A
S1-BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
S1-A100B
S1-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
S1-A101
S1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
S1-A102
S1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
S1-A103
S1 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
X
S1-A104
S1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
S1-A105
S1 - LEVEL 4-10 PLAN
X
S1-A106
S1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
S1-A300
S1 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
S1-A301
S1 - ELEVATIONS
X
S1-A302
S1 - ELEVATIONS
X
S1-A303
S1 - ELEVATIONS
X
S1-A304
S1 - ELEVATIONS
X
S1-A351
S1 - BUILDING SECTION
X
S1-A401
S1 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
16 S1 BLDG: 15
17 S2 BLDG
S2-A100A
S2-BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
S2-A100B
S2-BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
S2-A101
S2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
S2-A102
S2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
S2-A103
S2 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
X
S2-A104
S2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
S2-A105
S2 - LEVEL 4-8 PLAN
X
S2-A106
S2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
S2-A300
S2 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
S2-A301
S2 - ELEVATIONS
X
S2-A302
S2 - ELEVATIONS
X
S2-A303
S2 - ELEVATIONS
X
S2-A304
S2 - ELEVATIONS
X
S2-A351
S2 - BUILDING SECTION
X
S2-A401
S2 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
17 S2 BLDG: 15
18 S3 BLDG
S3-A101A
S3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
X
S3-A101B
S3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
X
S3-A102A
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE A
X
S3-A102B
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE B
X
S3-A103A
S3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE A
X
S3-A103B
S3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE B
X
S3-A104A
S3 - LEVEL 4 PLAN - ZONE A
X
S3-A104B
S3 - LEVEL 4 PLAN - ZONE B
X
S3-A105A
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
X
S3-A105B
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
X
S3-A300
W3 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
S3-A301
S3 - ELEVATIONS
X
S3-A302
S3 - ELEVATIONS
X
S3-A303
S3 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
S3-A351
S3 - BUILDING SECTION
X
S3-A451
S3 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
18 S3 BLDG: 16
19 S4 BLDG
S4-A100
S4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
X
S4-A101
S4 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
X
S4-A102
S4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
X
S4-A103
S4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
X
S4-A104
S4 - LEVEL  PLAN
X
S4-A105
S4 - LEVEL 5-6 PLAN
X
S4-A106
S4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
X
S4-A107
S4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
X
S4-A300
S4 - PERSPECTIVE VIEWS
X
S4-A301
S4 - ELEVATIONS
X
S4-A302
S4 - ELEVATIONS
X
S4-A303
S4 - COURTYARD ELEVATIONS
X
S4-A351
S4 - BUILDING SECTION
X
S4-A451
S4 - ENLARGED PLANS
X
19 S4 BLDG: 14
20 UNIT PLANS
U-A451
UNIT PLANS
X
U-A452
UNIT PLANS
X
20 UNIT PLANS: 2
TOTAL: 331
115 of 551

--- page 116 ---
ALIGN
VIEW TITLE
VIEW NUMBER
VIEW TITLE
GRAPHIC SYMBOLS
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
PROPERTY LINE
SHEET REFERENCE SYMBOL
VIEW NUMBER
SHEET NUMBER
CATEGORY
DISCIPLINE
BUILDING / WALL SECTION REFERENCES
SCOPE OF
NEW WORK
EXISTING WORK
COLUMN CENTER
LINE
COLUMN GRID
LABEL
REFER TO THIS
SHEET IDENTIFICATION
EXTERIOR ELEVATION
INTERIOR ELEVATION
DETAIL 
REFERENCES
REFER TO THIS
SHEET IDENTIFICATION
MATCHLINE SEE:  A/A201
ROOM NAME / NUMBER SYMBOL
ROOM NAME
ROOM IDENTIFICATION
ROOM NUMBER
PARTITION TYPE, DOOR, AND MISC SYMBOLS
PARTITION TYPE TAG
KEY NOTE
REVISION CLOUD
INDICATES +/- FROM 
REF ELEVATION
DIMENSION POINT
ELEVATION DATUM 
ELEVATION SYMBOLS
1
TITLE
1/8" = 1'-0" 
VIEW SCALE
N
1
A201
11
A301
2
A941
MATCHLINE SEE:  A/A202
10
101
EL +12"
DP
FL EL
0' - 0"
45.00°
1 7/32"
       5' - 0"
23/32"
   R 3' - 0"
A
1
1.1
DIMENSION LINES
1A3A 
101A 
A701
DOOR NUMBER
ANNOTATION SYMBOLS
A601
2
1
4
3
INDICATES FINISHED 
SURFACES SHALL ALIGN
DETAIL CALLOUT
DETAIL SECTION
REVISION NUMBER
REFER TO THIS
SHEET IDENTIFICATION
WALL SECTION
BUILDING 
SECTION
ELEVATION REFERENCES
N
P11
FINISH TAG
REVISED AREA
5
A501
A751
CENTERLINE
N
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:16 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROJECT
INFORMATION
23.04025.00
2025
G003
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
THIS PLAN SET SUPPLEMENTS THE HILLSDALE RE-IMAGINED MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN (MDP) AND RESPONDS TO 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO’S JULY 21, 2025 INCOMPLETE LETTER FOR PLANNING APPLICATION PA-2025-052. IT 
PROVIDES DETAILED DIAGRAMS, TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO DEMONSTRATE 
CONSISTENCY WITH THE MDP VISION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.
THE HILLSDALE RE-IMAGINED PROJECT PROPOSES THE PHASED REDEVELOPMENT OF APPROXIMATELY 32.66 ACRES 
WITHIN THE HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER, TRANSFORMING THE SITE INTO A VIBRANT, MIXED-USE DISTRICT. THE 
PLAN REPLACES EXISTING MALL AND BIG-BOX RETAIL STRUCTURES WITH A WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT 
INTEGRATES:
• 
UP TO 1,670 NEW RESIDENTIAL UNITS, INCLUDING APPROXIMATELY 200 BELOW-MARKET-RATE (BMR)
HOMES.
• 
UP TO 570,000 SQUARE FEET OF NET NEW COMMERCIAL SPACE, INCLUDING RETAIL, OFFICE, AND 
RESEARCH USES.
• 
AN INTERCONNECTED 4.5-ACRE OPEN SPACE NETWORK, FEATURING PLAZAS, GREENWAYS, AND PARKLETS.
THIS PLAN SET ILLUSTRATES THE PROPOSED SITE LAYOUT, BUILDING FOOTPRINTS, PARKING AND CIRCULATION 
SYSTEMS, UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE, GRADING AND DRAINAGE, AND LANDSCAPE DESIGN. IT ALSO INCLUDES 
UPDATED SQUARE FOOTAGE TABLES, DENSITY CALCULATIONS, AND BLOCK-LEVEL USE SUMMARIES TO CLARIFY 
COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 65589.5(H)(2)(B)(III), CONFIRMING THE PROJECT QUALIFIES AS A 
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT UNDER THE HOUSING ACCOUNTABILITY ACT.
THE MATERIALS HEREIN ADDRESS COMPLETENESS ITEMS OUTLINED IN THE CITY’S LETTER, INCLUDING:
• 
CLARIFICATION OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SQUARE FOOTAGES.
• 
DEMONSTRATION OF MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM DENSITIES PER BLOCK.
• 
UPDATED PLOT PLANS, LIGHTING AND SIGNAGE DIAGRAMS, AND UTILITY CONNECTION POINTS.
• 
DRAFT COVENANTS, TENTATIVE MAP DETAILS, AND ARBORIST DOCUMENTATION.
PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED DESIGN TEAM INCLUDING LICENSED ARCHITECTS, LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS, CIVIL 
ENGINEERS, AND LAND PLANNERS, THIS PLAN SET IS INTENDED TO SUPPORT THE CITY’S REVIEW AND FACILITATE 
THE NEXT PHASE OF ENTITLEMENT PROCESSING. 
VICINITY MAP
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
A
A/C
AIR CONDITIONING
AD
AREA DRAIN
ADA
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
ADAAG
ADA ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES
ADDL
ADDITIONAL
ADJ
ADJUSTABLE
AFF
ABOVE FINISH FLOOR
AL / ALUM
ALUMINUM
ALT
ALTERNATE
APPROX
APPROXIMATE
ARCH
ARCHITECTURAL
AV
AUDIO VISUAL
B
B/
BOTTOM OF (SEE OTHER WORD)
BLDG
BUILDING
BSMT
BASEMENT
C
CAB
CABINET
CAT
CATEGORY
CB
CATCH BASIN
CFCI
CONTRACTOR FURNISHED, CONTRACTOR
INSTALLED
CFMF
COLD FORMED METAL FRAMING
CI
CONTINUOUS INSULATION
CIP
CAST-IN-PLACE
CJ
CONTROL JOINT / CONSTRUCTION JOINT
CL
CENTER LINE
CLG
CEILING
CLR
CLEAR
CM
CENTIMETER
CMB
CEMENT BOARD
CMU
CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
CO
CLEANOUT
COL
COLUMN
CONC
CONCRETE
CONT
CONTINUOUS
COORD
COORDINATE
CORR
CORRIDOR
CS
CONCRETE SEALER
CTR
CENTER
D
DB
DECIBEL
DEG
DEGREE
DEMO
DEMOLITION
DEPT
DEPARTMENT
DET
DETAIL
DF
DRINKING FOUNTAIN
DIA
DIAMETER
DIFF
DIFFUSER
DIM
DIMENSION
DIM
DIMENSION
DL
DEAD LOAD
DN
DOWN
DP
DESIGN/DIMENSION POINT
DR
DOOR
DRN
DRAIN
DW
DISHWASHER
DWG
DRAWING
E
EA
EACH
EFS
EXTERIOR FINISH SYSTEM
EIFS
EXTERIOR INSULATION AND FINISH
SYSTEM
EL
ELEVATION
ELEC
ELECTRICAL
EMERG
EMERGENCY
ENCL
ENCLOSURE
EOS
EDGE OF SLAB
EP
ELECTRICAL PANELBOARD
EQ
EQUAL
EQUIP
EQUIPMENT
EWC
ELECTRICAL WATER COOLER
EXH
EXHAUST
EXIST
EXISTING
EXT
EXTERIOR
F
F/
FACE OF (SEE OTHER WORD)
FA
FIRE ALARM
FD
FLOOR DRAIN
FDC
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FDN
FOUNDATION
FE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET
FEQ
FOOF EQUIPMENT
FF
FINISH FLOOR
FF&E
FURNITURE, FIXTURES & EQUIPMENT
FFE
FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION
FFPE
FINAL FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION
FH
FIRE HYDRANT
FHC
FIRE HOSE CABINET
FIN
FINISH
FL
FLOOR
FLUOR
FLUORESCENT
FO
FINISHED OPENING
FRTW
FIRE RETARDANT TREATED WOOD
FS
FIRE STOPPING
FT
FEET/FOOT
FTG
FOOTING
FURN
FURNITURE
G
GA
GAUGE / GAGE
GALV
GALVANIZED
GC
GENERAL CONTRACTOR, GENERAL
CONTRACT
GFRC
GLASS FIBER REINFORCED CONCRETE
GFRG
GLASS FIBER REINFORCED GYPSUM
GFRP
GLASS FIBER REINFORCED PLASTIC
GR
GRADE
GWB
GYPSUM WALLBOARD
H
HB
HOSE BIBB
HC
HANDICAPPED
HM
HOLLOW METAL
HMIS
HAZADOUS MATERIAL INVENTORY
STATEMENT
HO
HOLD-OPEN
HORIZ
HORIZONTAL
HP
HIGH POINT
HR
HOUR
HRC
HOSE REEL CABINET
HSS
HOLLOW STRUCTURAL SECTION
HT
HEIGHT
HVAC
HEATING, VENTILATING, AIR CONDITIONING
HW
HOT WATER
I
ICB
INTEGRAL COVE BASE
ICC
INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL
ID
INSIDE DIAMETER / DIMENSION
IN
INCH
INFO
INFORMATION
INT
INTERIOR
INV
INVERT
J
JC
JANITOR’S CLOSET
JST
JOIST
JT
JOINT
K
K
KIP (1000 LB)
KG
KILOGRAM
KIT
KITCHEN
L
LAB
LABORATORY
LAT
LATERAL
LAV
LAVATORY
LB
POUND
LF
LINEAR FOOT
LL
LIVE LOAD
LLH
LONG LEG HORIZONTAL
LLV
LONG LEG VERTICAL
LP
LOW POINT
LT
LIGHT
LV
LOW VOLTAGE
M
M
METER
MAINT
MAINTENANCE
MAQ
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE QUANTITIES
MAX
MAXIMUM
MCC
MOTOR CONTROL CENTER
MDF
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD
MDO
MEDIUM DENSITY OVERLAY
MECH
MECHANICAL
MEP
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING
MER
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ROOM
MEZZ
MEZZANINE
MFR
MANUFACTURER
MH
MANHOLE
MIN
MINIMUM
MISC
MISCELLANEOUS
MM
MILLIMETER
MTD
MOUNTED
MTL
METAL
N
N
NEWTON
N/A
NOT APPLICABLE
NC
NOISE CRITERIA
NIC
NOT IN CONTRACT
NO
NUMBER
NOM
NOMINAL
NPS
NOMINAL PIPE SIZE
NRC
NOISE REDUCTION COEFFICIENT
NTS
NOT TO SCALE
O
OA
OUTSIDE AIR
OC
ON CENTER
OCEW
ON CENTER EACH WAY
OD
OUTSIDE DIAMETER/DIMENSION
OFCI
OWNER FURNISHED, CONTRACTOR
INSTALLED
OFOI
OWNER FURNISHED, OWNER INSTALLED
OH
OVER HEAD
OPNG
OPENING
OPP
OPPOSITE
OPP HD
OPPOSITE HAND
OXY
OXYGEN
P
PAF
POWER-ACTUATED FASTENER
PBD
PARTICLEBOARD
PD
PERIMETER DRAIN
PERF
PERFORATED
PL
PLATE
PLBG
PLUMBING
PLF
POUNDS PER LINEAR FOOT
POC
POINT OF CONNECTION
PR
PAIR
PREFAB
PREFABRICATED
PSF
POUNDS PER SQUARE FOOT
PSI
POUNDS PER SQUARE INCH
PT
PAINT
PTD
PAINTED
PTN
PARTITION
Q
QTY
QUANTITY
R
R
RADIUS
RA
RETURN AIR
RCP
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
RD
ROOF DRAIN
RECPT
RECEPTACLE
REF
REFERENCE
REFR
REFRIGERATOR
REINF
REINFORCED / REINFORCING
REQ
REQUIRE / REQUIRED
REV
REVISION / REVISED
RM
ROOM
RO
ROUGH OPENING
S
SA
SUPPLY AIR
SAFB
SOUND ATTENUATING FIRE BLANKET/BATT
SAN
SANITARY
SCD
SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
SCHED
SCHEDULE
SD
STORM DRAIN
SECT
SECTION
SED
SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
SF
SQUARE FEET/FOOT
SHR
SHOWER
SHT
SHEET
SIM
SIMILAR
SLD
SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
SM
SQUARE METER
SMD
SEE MECHANCIAL DRAWINGS
SMS
SHEET METAL SCREW
SP
STANDPIPE
SPD
SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS
SPEC
SPECIFICATION
SPKR
SPEAKER
SPR
SPRINKLER
SQ
SQUARE
SSD
SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
SST
STAINLESS STEEL
STD
STANDARD
STL
STEEL
STMS
SELF-TAP SHEET METAL SCREW
STRL
STRUCTURAL
SUSP
SUSPENDED
SYMM
SYMMETRICAL
T
T&G
TONGUE AND GROOVE
T/
TOP OF (SEE OTHER WORD)
TEL
TELEPHONE OR TELECOM
TEMP
TEMPERATURE
TGB
TOGGLE BOLT
TH
THICK
THK
THICKNESS
TP
TOILET PARTITION
TV
TELEVISION
TYP
TYPICAL
U
UL
UNDERWRITERS LABORATORY
UON
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
V
VDGS
VISUAL DOCKING GUIDANCE SYSTEMS
VERT
VERTICAL
VEST
VESTIBULE
VIF
VERIFY IN FIELD
W
W/
WITH
W/O
WITHOUT
WC
WATER CLOSET
WD
WOOD
WDS
WOOD SCREW
WO
WHERE OCCURS
WP
WORK POINT
WT
WEIGHT
WWR
WELDED WIRE REINFORCING
SCOPE OF WORK BOUNDARY
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
N
116 of 551

--- page 117 ---
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:19 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
23.04025.00
2025
G010
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
117 of 551

--- page 118 ---
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:22 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
EXISTING SITE PHOTOS
23.04025.00
2025
G011
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
118 of 551

--- page 119 ---
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:27 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
EXTERIOR MATERIAL
SCHEDULE
23.04025.00
2025
G013
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
119 of 551

--- page 120 ---
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:33 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
EXTERIOR MATERIAL
SCHEDULE
23.04025.00
2025
G014
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
120 of 551

--- page 121 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G015
NTS
GATEWAY VIEW
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
121 of 551

--- page 122 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G016
NTS
HILLSDALE CENTER VIEW WEST
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
122 of 551

--- page 123 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G017
NTS
TOWNHOMES VIEW
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
123 of 551

--- page 124 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G018
NTS
EAST SAILER DRIVE VIEW
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
124 of 551

--- page 125 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:57 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G019
NTS
HILLSDALE CENTER VIEW SOUTHEAST
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
125 of 551

--- page 126 ---
GENERAL NOTE: 
THE RENDERINGS PRESENTED ARE FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. 
ALL IMAGES, DESIGNS, AND VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS ARE CONCEPTUAL AND 
SUBJECT TO CHANGE. FINAL FEATURES, MATERIALS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND 
LAYOUTS MAY DIFFER FROM THOSE SHOWN AND ARE NOT GUARANTEED.
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVE
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S4
S3
W2
W3
E1
El Camino Rea l
31st Ave
W Hillsd ale Blvd
Laurel Cr eek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 10:29:57 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
PROPOSED SITE
RENDERINGS
23.04025.00
2025
G020
NTS
HILLSDALE SQUARE
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
126 of 551

--- page 127 ---
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
E1
E2
E3
S1
S2
C5
C2
C1
S4
C4
C3
W2
W3
S3
EL CAMINO REAL
LAUREL CREEK
31ST AVE
32ND AVE
33RD AVE
HILLSDALE BLVD
E SAILER DR
W SAILER DR
EDISON LN
36TH AVE
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
ENCLOSED SPACE
TERRACE / ROOF
LEGEND
BASEMENT
W1 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
130606.0 SF
W2 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
341895.0 SF
W2 - BASEMENT AREA
TOTAL
58500.0 SF
W3 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
341895.0 SF
W3 - BASEMENT AREA
TOTAL
58500.0 SF
S3 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
411789.0 SF
S4 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
236743.0 SF
S4 - BASEMENT AREA
TOTAL
10445.0 SF
C3 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
423402.0 SF
C3 - BASEMENT AREA
TOTAL
60807.0 SF
C4 - GROSS BLDG AREA
TOTAL
175955.0 SF
C4 - BASEMENT AREA
TOTAL
77280.0 SF
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:14:46 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
OVERALL FLOOR AREA
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
G030
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
C1 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
77032.2 SF
TOTAL
77032.2 SF
C1 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
C1 GROUND LEVEL
22302.7 SF
TOTAL
22302.7 SF
C2 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
C2 GROUND LEVEL
6273.9 SF
TOTAL
6273.9 SF
C5 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
57089.9 SF
TOTAL
57089.9 SF
C5 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
C5 GROUND LEVEL
67390.8 SF
C5 LEVEL 2 PARKING
46382.9 SF
C5 LEVEL 3
61923.2 SF
C5 LEVEL 4
62795.2 SF
C5 LEVEL 5
62795.2 SF
C5 LEVEL 6
62795.2 SF
C5 LEVEL 7
1089.7 SF
TOTAL
365172.1 SF
E1 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
59845.8 SF
TOTAL
59845.8 SF
E1 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
E1 GROUND LEVEL
38468.7 SF
E1 LEVEL 2
39985.2 SF
E1 LEVEL 3
29556.0 SF
E1 LEVEL 4
31174.5 SF
E1 LEVEL 5
31174.4 SF
E1 LEVEL 6
27625.6 SF
E1 LEVEL 7
27913.5 SF
E1 LEVEL 8
27913.1 SF
E1 LEVEL 9
27913.1 SF
E1 LEVEL 10
27902.5 SF
E1 ROOF
1507.5 SF
TOTAL
311134.0 SF
E2 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
E2 GROUND LEVEL
40682.4 SF
E2 LEVEL 2
35605.7 SF
E2 LEVEL 3
36944.7 SF
E2 LEVEL 4
36301.4 SF
E2 LEVEL 5
36301.4 SF
E2 LEVEL 6
29309.5 SF
E2 LEVEL 7
29266.6 SF
E2 LEVEL 8
28861.9 SF
E2 LEVEL 9
28861.9 SF
E2 ROOF
1521.7 SF
TOTAL
303657.1 SF
E2 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
56225.7 SF
TOTAL
56225.7 SF
E3 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
E3 GROUND LEVEL
40972.2 SF
E3 LEVEL 2
37337.9 SF
E3 LEVEL 3
34054.7 SF
E3 LEVEL 4
34480.8 SF
E3 LEVEL 5
34480.8 SF
E3 LEVEL 6
26915.8 SF
E3 LEVEL 7
28780.7 SF
E3 LEVEL 8
28780.7 SF
E3 ROOF
902.1 SF
TOTAL
266705.5 SF
E3 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
58309.4 SF
TOTAL
58309.4 SF
S1 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
S BASEMENT LEVEL
B2
71333.1 SF
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
73985.1 SF
TOTAL
145318.2 SF
S2 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
S2 GROUND LEVEL
57707.2 SF
S2 LEVEL 2
45409.1 SF
S2 LEVEL 2.5
5343.7 SF
S2 LEVEL 3
42644.3 SF
S2 LEVEL 4
44832.4 SF
S2 LEVEL 5
44839.5 SF
S2 LEVEL 6
44838.5 SF
S2 LEVEL 7
44840.4 SF
S2 LEVEL 8
44881.1 SF
S2 ROOF
1440.0 SF
TOTAL
376776.1 SF
S2 - BASEMENT AREA
LEVEL
AREA
S BASEMENT LEVEL
B2
80098.3 SF
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
83403.7 SF
TOTAL
163502.0 SF
S1 - GROSS BLDG AREA
LEVEL
ENCLOSED SPACE AREA
S1 GROUND LEVEL
52470.8 SF
S1 LEVEL 2
40386.8 SF
S1 LEVEL 2.5
1276.9 SF
S1 LEVEL 3
35692.7 SF
S1 LEVEL 4
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 5
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 6
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 7
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 8
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 9
35975.5 SF
S1 LEVEL 10
35975.5 SF
S1 ROOF
1440.0 SF
TOTAL
383096.1 SF
127 of 551

--- page 128 ---
9AM
SITE BOUNDARY
BUILDING
UNSHADED SITE
SHADED SITE
At 9:00 AM on March 21st, the shadow study was performed, with 
the corresponding solar path and sun altitude clearly indicated in the 
diagrams. 
During this period, portions of the pedestrian walkways and some edges 
of the public spaces are shaded by adjacent building masses. While this 
results in limited direct sunlight in the early morning, such conditions are 
typical in urban environments.
NOTES
LEGEND
SHADOW ANALYSIS
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
EL CAMINO REAL
E SAILER DR
W SAILER DR
TOWNHOME WAY
INNER ALLEY
EDISON ST
HILLSDALE BLVD
LAUREL CREEK
32ND AVE
N SAILER DR
31ST AVE
33RD AVE
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
23.04025.00
2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
SITE SHADOW STUDY
G101
128 of 551

--- page 129 ---
SITE BOUNDARY
BUILDING
UNSHADED SITE
SHADED SITE
ELEVATION KEY
LEGEND
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
SHADOW ANALYSIS
1     HILLSDALE BOULEVARD - NORTH ELEVATION
2     33RD AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
3     32ND AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
4     31ST AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
5     LAUREL CREEK - SOUTH ELEVATION
6     HILLSDALE BLVD - SOUTH ELEVATION
7     32ND AVENUE - NORTH ELEVATION
8     31ST AVENUE - SOUTH ELEVATION
9AM
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
23.04025.00
2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
SITE SHADOW STUDY
G102
129 of 551

--- page 130 ---
ELEVATION KEY
SITE BOUNDARY
BUILDING
UNSHADED SITE
SHADED SITE
LEGEND
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
SHADOW ANALYSIS
9     E SAILER DR - WEST ELEVATION
10     W SAILER DR - WEST ELEVATION
11     TOWNHOME WAY - WEST ELEVATION
12     E SAILER DR - EAST ELEVATION
13     W SAILER DR - EAST ELEVATION
14     TOWNHOME WAY - EAST ELEVATION
9AM
SPRING EQUINOX
MARCH 21ST 
9:00 AM
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
23.04025.00
2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
SITE SHADOW STUDY
G103
130 of 551

--- page 131 ---
STOP
STOP
STOP
HILLSDALE BLVD
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
EDISON ST
31ST AVE
36TH AVE
FLORES ST
EDISON ST
N SAILER DR
W SAILER DR
31ST AVE
LAUREL CREEK
32ND AVE
33RD AVE
INNER ALLEY
E SAILER DR
TOWNHOME WAY
31ST AVE
PARCEL A
APN:039-490-170
S2
S3
E1
E2
E3
C5
W3
W1.6
W1.7
W1.9
W1.8
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.5
W1.4
W2
C4
C1
C3
S1
S4
C2
C2
HILLSDALE CENTER
HILLSDALE SQUARE
L003
L101
L301
L401
L501
L004
L102
L302
L402
L502
L005
L103
L303
L403
L503
L006
L104
L304
L404
L504
L007
L105
L305
L405
L505
BUFANO WAY
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L100
LANDSCAPE KEY PLAN
131 of 551

--- page 132 ---
STOP
CAFE TABLES (TYP.)
HARDSCAPE
DECKING (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER;
VEHICULAR CONDITION (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 1 (TYP.)
RAISED PLANTER WITH
WOOD SEATING (TYP.)
EXISTING BRIDGE TO TIE IN
CANTENARY STRING
LIGHT (TYP.)
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
WOOD
CLADDING ON
STADIUM
SEATS (TYP.)
PLANTER POTS (TYP.)
EXISTING BUS
STOP TO REMAIN
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 3
EXISTING CROSSWALK
AT STREET LEVEL
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
ELEVATOR; TBD
PLAZA PAVERS (TYP.)
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
WOOD SEAT
PLATFORM
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
BOLLARD (TYP.)
PLAY SCULPTURE (TYP.)
VEHICULAR UNIT
PAVER, TYPE 1 (TYP.)
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
OFF-STREET
LOADING
DN
CAFE TABLES (TYP.)
HARDSCAPE
DECKING (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER;
VEHICULAR CONDITION (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 1 (TYP.)
RAISED PLANTER WITH
WOOD SEATING (TYP.)
EXISTING BRIDGE TO TIE IN
CANTENARY STRING
LIGHT (TYP.)
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
WOOD
CLADDING ON
STADIUM
SEATS (TYP.)
PLANTER POTS (TYP.)
EXISTING BUS
STOP TO REMAIN
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 3
EXISTING CROSSWALK
AT STREET LEVEL
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
ELEVATOR; TBD
PLAZA PAVERS (TYP.)
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
WOOD SEAT
PLATFORM
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
BOLLARD (TYP.)
PLAY SCULPTURE (TYP.)
VEHICULAR UNIT
PAVER, TYPE 1 (TYP.)
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
PUBLIC
ART, TBD
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
33RD AVE
E SAILER DR
31ST AVE
E1
E2
C4
C1
C2
C2
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L101
SITE MATERIALS PLAN
SEE SHEET L102 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L104 FOR CONTINUATION
PUBLIC ART, TBD
132 of 551

--- page 133 ---
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
EXISTING SIDEWALK TO REMAIN
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
YP.)
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
EXISTING SIDEWALK TO REMAIN
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
YP.)
HILLSDALE BLVD
LAUREL CREEK
S2
E3
C5
S1
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
SITE MATERIALS PLAN
SEE SHEET L103 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L105 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L1001 FOR CONTINUATION
L102
PUBLIC ART, TBD
133 of 551

--- page 134 ---
REMAIN
EXISTING BUS
STOP TO REMAIN
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
DN
UP
REMAIN
EXISTING BUS
STOP TO REMAIN
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
S4
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L103
SITE MATERIALS PLAN
SEE SHEET L102 FOR CONTINUATION
PUBLIC ART, TBD
134 of 551

--- page 135 ---
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
BENCHES (TYP.)
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
CAST IN PLACE BENCH
BENCHES (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 2 (TYP.)
CONCRETE PAVING
TYPE 1 (TYP.)
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1
RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE
4-2 PROJECT ID
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 3
OF
LO
DN
UP
UP
UP
UP
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
BENCHES (TYP.)
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
CAST IN PLACE BENCH
BENCHES (TYP.)
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 2 (TYP.)
CONCRETE PAVING
TYPE 1 (TYP.)
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1
RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE
4-2 PROJECT ID
CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS TYPE 3
EDISON ST
31ST AVE
W SAILER DR
31ST AVE
32ND AVE
INNER ALLEY
TOWNHOME WAY
W
W
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.5
W1.4
W2
C3
BUFANO WAY
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L104
SITE MATERIALS PLAN
SEE SHEET L105 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L101 FOR CONTINUATION
PUBLIC ART, TBD
135 of 551

--- page 136 ---
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
BIKE LANE PAVING (TYP.)
BIKE RACK (TYP.)
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS (TYP.)
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-3
PEDESTRIAN DIRECTIONAL
S3
W3
W1.6
W1.7
W1.9
W1.8
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
01 GENERAL
BRIDGE COLUMN
FIRE HYDRANT. SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
STAINLESS STEEL HANDRAIL
CATCH BASIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
LIGHTING
LOUVERED TREE UPLIGHT
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 1
PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS, TYPE 2
STREET LIGHTS
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHTS
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL PLAZA LIGHT
CANTENARY STRING LIGHT
STEP LIGHT
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
PAVING
SIDEWALK; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
CONCRETE PAVING TYPE 1; INTEGRAL COLOR.
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 1
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS TYPE 3
HARDSCAPE DECKING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 1; VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER TYPE 2; VEHICULAR CONDITION
VEHICULAR PAVING; SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
BIKE LANE PAVING
SITE AMENITIES
SIGNAGE; TYPE 3-1 RESIDENTIAL ID
SIGNAGE; TYPE 4-2 PROJECT ID
BENCH
MOVEABLE LOUNGE CHAIR
CAFE TABLE
BOLLARD
PRECAST CONCRETE SEATING / PLANTER
TREE GRATE
WOOD CLADDING / BENCH
BIKE RACK
PLANTER POT
PLAY SCULPTURE
SCULPTURE
REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeMaterials.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L105
SITE MATERIALS PLAN
SEE SHEET L104 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L102 FOR CONTINUATION
PUBLIC ART, TBD
136 of 551

--- page 137 ---
SYMBOL
QTY
BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME
CONT
HEIGHT/SPREAD
CAL.
WUCOLS
SIZE AT MATURITY
TREES
64
- - - / EXISTING TREE TO REMAIN
-
8
ACER BUERGERIANUM / TRIDENT MAPLE
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
25'-35' HT. X 25'-35' SPR.
7
ACER CIRCINATUM / VINE MAPLE
24" BOX
14-16' HT. X 6-7' SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
15-20' HT. X 15-20' SPR.
4
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID' / CANE'S HYBRID BOTTLEBRUSH
24" BOX
4`-5` HT. X 4`-5` SP.
LOW
10-15` HT. X 10-15` SPR.
8
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA' / BLUE ATLAS CEDAR
36" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
-
LOW
40-90' HT X 30-60' SPR.
6
CEDRUS DEODARA / DEODAR CEDAR
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
-
LOW
30-50' HT. X 30-40' SPR.
14
CERATONIA SILIQUA / ALGAROBA
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
30-40' HT. X 25-30' SPR.
24
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY' / FOREST PANSY EASTERN REDBUD
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
20-30' HT - 25-35' SPR.
7
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI' / SATOMI KOUSA DOGWOOD
24" BOX
8`-10` HT. X 5`-6` SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
12-20' HT. X 10-20' SPR.
63
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT' / FAIRMOUNT MAIDENHAIR TREE
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
36" BOX
12`-14` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
50-80' HT. X 20-40' SPR.
143
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ` / NATCHEZ CRAPE MYRTLE
24" BOX
10`-12` HT. X 4`-5` SPR.
2" CAL.
LOW
15-20' HT. X 15-20' SPR.
39
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA / TULIP POPLAR
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
24" BOX
10-15` HT. X 10-15` SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
60-90' HT X 30-50 FT SPR.
10
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA / SAUCER MAGNOLIA
36" BOX
14-16' HT. X 6-7' SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
20-30' HT. X 20-30' SPR.
4
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH' / RED PUSH PISTACHE
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
25'-40' H.T. X 20'-30' SPR,
64
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS' / ROBERTS CALIFORNIA SYCAMORE
24" BOX
14-16' HT. X 6-7' SPR.
3" CAL.
MODERATE
40-50` HT. X 30-40` SPR.
59
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE' / STREETSPIRE® OAK
24" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
30-50' HT. X 10-15' SPR.
6
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA / COAST LIVE OAK
84" BOX
25 - 40` HT. X 25 - 30` SPR.
10" CAL.
VERY LOW
40-60' HT. X 40-50' SPR.
5
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA / PINK TRUMPET TREE
36" BOX
14`-16` HT. X 6`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
25'-35' HT. X 25'-35' SPR.
42
TILIA TOMENTOSA / SILVER LINDEN
24" BOX
12`-14` HT. X 5`-7` SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
50-80' HT X 30-40' SPR.
82
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER' / FRONTIER ELM
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
24" BOX
14-16' HT. X 6-7' SPR.
3" CAL.
LOW
25'-40' H.T. X 20'-30' SPR,
SYMBOL
QTY
BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME
CONT.
SPACING
WUCOLS
MATURE SIZE
DETAIL
TOWNHOME SHADE
10
ACANTHUS MOLLIS / BEAR'S BREECH
5 GAL.
LOW
5
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA' / DWARF COMMON MYRTLE
5 GAL.
LOW
5
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT' / CLAREMONT FLOWERING CURRANT
5 GAL.
LOW
TOWNHOME SUN
10
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO' / 'EL CAMPO' SMALL CAPE RUSH
5 GAL.
LOW
10
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII / GALPIN'S CONEBUSH
5 GAL.
LOW
BIOSWALE MIX
17,075 SF
CAREX TUMULICOLA / FOOTHILL SEDGE
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO' / EL CAMPO CAPE RUSH
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS' / PCH IRIS
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM / BLUE-EYED GRASS
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
5,772 SF
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD' / HEARTS OF GOLD EASTERN REDBUD
FATSIA JAPONICA / JAPANESE FATSIA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES / WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES GUARA
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE' / OLD LA ROCHETTE CORAL BELLS
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN' / SNOW QUEEN OAKLEAF HYDRANGEA
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA / SWORD FERN
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT' / MAY NIGHT MEADOW SAGE
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS' / GREEN GODDESS CALLA LILY
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
509 SF
ACACIA COGNATA / RIVER WATTLE
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY' / SALMON BEAUTY COMMON YARROW
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS' / RAY OF LIGHT FOXTAIL AGAVE
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA' / DOREEN WYNJAIMAGE: DOREEN WYNJA
CAREX TUMULICOLA / FOOTHILL SEDGE
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD' / HEARTS OF GOLD EASTERN REDBUD
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO' / EL CAMPO CAPE RUSH
FATSIA JAPONICA / JAPANESE FATSIA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES' / WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES GAURA
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT' / MOONLIGHT GREVILLEA
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE' / OLD LA ROCHETTE CORAL BELLS
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA / SMALL MAT RUSH
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT' / MAY NIGHT MEADOW SAGE
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
14,771 SF
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY' / SALMON BEAUTY COMMON YARROW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST' / SONOMA COAST COMMON YARROW
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
CAREX TUMULICOLA / FOOTHILL SEDGE
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA' / POINT SIERRA MARITIME CEANOTHUS
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA' / CONCHA WILD LILAC
COTINUS COGGYGRIA / SMOKE TREE
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS / SANTA BARBARA DAISY
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA' / MT. TAMBORITHA WOOLLY GREVILLEA
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII / GALPIN'S CONEBUSH
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA' / DWARF COMMON MYRTLE
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA' / LITTLE OLLIE® OLIVE
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY' / WAVERLY SAGE
POLLINATOR GARDENS
13,506 SF
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY' / SALMON BEAUTY COMMON YARROW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST' / SONOMA COAST COMMON YARROW
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA / SHOWY MILKWEED
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID' / CANE'S HYBRID BOTTLEBRUSH
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS / WESTERN REDBUD MULTI-TRUNK
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM / CALIFORNIA BUCKWHEAT
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM / CALIFORNIA FLANNEL BUSH
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS / DEER GRASS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE' / EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
10,569 SF
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA' / NOVA FOXTAIL AGAVE
CAREX TUMULICOLA / FOOTHILL SEDGE
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT' / YANKEE POINT CARMEL CREEPER
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA' / DWARF COMMON MYRTLE
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE' / EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR' / DWARF YEDDA HAWTHORN
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
18,474 SF
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID' / CANE'S HYBRID BOTTLEBRUSH
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM / CALIFORNIA FLANNEL BUSH
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE' / BREEZE™ MAT RUSH
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS / DEER GRASS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE' / EVE CASE COFFEEBERRY
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI / LOW COAST ROSEMARY
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
61,688 SF
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY' / SALMON BEAUTY COMMON YARROW
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST' / SONOMA COAST COMMON YARROW
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION' / BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
CAREX TUMULICOLA / FOOTHILL SEDGE
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA' / POINT SIERRA MARITIME CEANOTHUS
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO' / EL CAMPO CAPE RUSH
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS / SANTA BARBARA DAISY
FESTUCA MAIREI / ATLAS FESCUE
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII / GALPIN'S CONEBUSH
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA' / LITTLE OLLIE® OLIVE
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY' / WAVERLY SAGE
TURF
19,665 SF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
(LOW)
L300A
PLANTING SCHEDULE
TREE SCHEDULE
PLANTING AREA SCHEDULE
(MOD)
(LOW)
(LOW)
(LOW)
(LOW)
(LOW)
(LOW)
137 of 551

--- page 138 ---
STOP
DMA 1-A
17839 SF
DMA 2-A
21184 SF
DMA 4-A
21330 SF
DMA 5-A
19368 SF
DMA 6-A
27541 SF
DMA 5-B
12998 SF
6,775 SF
RETAIL A
4,315 SF
LOBBY/LEASING/MAIL
1,386 SF
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
8,909 SF
GARAGE
1,694 SF
UTILITY
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
789 SF
UTILITY/BOH
6,580 SF
RETAIL B
OFF-STREET
LOADING
183 SF
LOBBY
DN
560 SF
TRASH TERM
STAIR
ELEV
STAIR
RETAIL
15,600 SF
E1
E2
C4
C2
C1
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
31ST AVE
33RD AVE
E SAILER DR
EXISTING BRIDGE
EXISTING TREE
TO REMAIN
(TYP.)
TURF AREA (TYP.)
32ND AVE
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
QUERCUS 'SWEETSPIRE'
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
LAGERSTROE MIA 'NATCHEZ'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
BETULA NIGRA
CERCIS CANADENSIS
'FOREST PANSY'
SPECIMEN TREE
TILLA TOMENTOSA
TILLA TOMENTOSA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
TREES
- - -
ACER BUERGERIANUM
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA'
CEDRUS DEODARA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ`
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
TILIA TOMENTOSA
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER'
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
TOWNHOME SHADE
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
TOWNHOME SUN
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
BIOSWALE MIX
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FESTUCA MAIREI
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS'
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN'
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS'
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
ACACIA COGNATA
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS'
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES'
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT'
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA'
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
POLLINATOR GARDENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT'
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
FESTUCA MAIREI
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE'
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
FESTUCA MAIREI
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
TURF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
SEE SHEET L302  FOR CONTINUATION
L301
PLANTING PLAN
SEE SHEET L304  FOR CONTINUATION
PLANT SCHEDULE
138 of 551

--- page 139 ---
MA 6-A
541 SF
DMA 3-A
20001 SF
DMA 14-A
26218 SF
DMA 15-A
36638 SF
S2
E3
C5
S1
HILLSDALE BLVD
LAUREL CREEK
EXISTING TREE
TO REMAIN
(TYP.)
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
E SAILER DR
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
BIOSWALE MIX
LAGERSTROE MIA 'NATCHEZ'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CERCIS CANADENSIS
'FOREST PANSY'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
CEDRUS ATLANTICA
GINKO BILOBA 'FAIRMONT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
EXISTING TREE
TO REMAIN (TYP.)
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
TREES
- - -
ACER BUERGERIANUM
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA'
CEDRUS DEODARA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ`
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
TILIA TOMENTOSA
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER'
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
TOWNHOME SHADE
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
TOWNHOME SUN
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
BIOSWALE MIX
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FESTUCA MAIREI
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS'
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN'
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS'
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
ACACIA COGNATA
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS'
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES'
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT'
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA'
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
POLLINATOR GARDENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT'
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
FESTUCA MAIREI
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE'
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
FESTUCA MAIREI
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
TURF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L302
PLANTING PLAN
SEE SHEET L303 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L305  FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L301 FOR CONTINUATION
PLANT SCHEDULE
139 of 551

--- page 140 ---
DN
UP
1,035 SF
TRANSFORMERS
678 SF
ELECTRICAL
2,513 SF
LOBBY / MAIL / PARCEL
STORAGE
165 SF
MPOE
STAIR
STAIR
1,487 SF
LEASING / CO-WORK
2,276 SF
FITNESS
431 SF
MOVE-IN / LOADING
789 SF
TRASH TERMINATION
867 SF
UTILITY/BOH
244 SF
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
24,478 SF
GARAGE
1,356 SF
BIKE STORAGE
B3.2
S1.1
S1.1
S4
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
36TH AVE
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
TREES
- - -
ACER BUERGERIANUM
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA'
CEDRUS DEODARA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ`
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
TILIA TOMENTOSA
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER'
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
TOWNHOME SHADE
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
TOWNHOME SUN
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
BIOSWALE MIX
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FESTUCA MAIREI
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS'
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN'
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS'
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
ACACIA COGNATA
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS'
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES'
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT'
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA'
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
POLLINATOR GARDENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT'
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
FESTUCA MAIREI
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE'
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
FESTUCA MAIREI
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
TURF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L303
PLANTING PLAN
SEE SHEET L302 FOR CONTINUATION
PLANT SCHEDULE
140 of 551

--- page 141 ---
DMA 8-A
16310 SF
DMA 5-B
12998 SF
DMA 7-A
19778 SF
DMA 10-A
7095 SF
DMA 12-A
28900 SF
DM
840
DM
14
4,315 SF
LOBBY/LEASING/MAIL
1,386 SF
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
8,909 SF
GARAGE
1,694 SF
UTILITY
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
789 SF
UTILITY/BOH
OFF-STREET
LOADING
DN
682 SF
BIKE STORAGE
STAIR
UP
UP
UP
UP
1,549 SF
BIKE STORAGE
2,062 SF
FITNESS
1,143 SF
CO-WORK/LEASING
2,184 SF
LOBBY
1,203 SF
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
2,228 SF
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
25,043 SF
GARAGE
888 SF
TRASH TERM
595 SF
TRANSFORMER
437 SF
ELEC
149 SF
MPOE
TH1.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
STAIR
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH4.0
TH4.1
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
1,793 SF
ELEC /
TRANSFORMERS
27,413 SF
GARAGE
STAIR
ELEV
75 SF
TRASH
B3.0
B4.0
861 SF
TRASH TERM
STAIR
RETAIL
15,600 SF
2,831 SF
LOBBY/ LEASING/
MAIL & PARCEL
ELEV
ELEV
1,100 SF
BIKE STORAGE
218 SF
UTILITY/BOH
C1.2
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
B1.2
A1.1
B1.2
W
W
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.5
W1.4
W2
C3
EDISON ST
31ST AVE
W SAILER DR
TOWNHOME WAY
32ND AVE
INNER ALLEY
TURF AREA
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
POLLINATOR GARDENS
TILLA TOMENTOSA
EXISTING TREE TO
REMAIN (TYP.)
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
CERATONIA SILIQUA
ULMUS 'FRONTIER'
MAGNOLIA × SOULANGEANA
CORNUS KOUSA `SATOMI`
ACER CIRCINATUM
ACER BUERGERIANUM
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
LAGERSTROEMIA INDICA X FAURIEI 'MUSKOGEE'
QUERCUS 'SWEETSPIRE'
CEDRUS DEODARA
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
TILLA TOMENTOSA
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
BIOSWALE MIX
TILLA TOMENTOSA
TILLA TOMENTOSA
BUFANO WAY
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
TREES
- - -
ACER BUERGERIANUM
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA'
CEDRUS DEODARA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ`
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
TILIA TOMENTOSA
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER'
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
TOWNHOME SHADE
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
TOWNHOME SUN
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
BIOSWALE MIX
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FESTUCA MAIREI
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS'
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN'
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS'
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
ACACIA COGNATA
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS'
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES'
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT'
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA'
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
POLLINATOR GARDENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT'
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
FESTUCA MAIREI
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE'
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
FESTUCA MAIREI
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
TURF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L304
PLANTING PLAN
SEE SHEET L305 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L301 FOR CONTINUATION
PLANT SCHEDULE
141 of 551

--- page 142 ---
DMA 16-A
31533 SF
DMA 9-A
15400 SF
DMA 11-A
8406 SF
DMA 13-A
14063 SF
20,424 SF
GARAGE
434 SF
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
B3.1
1,150 SF
S2.0
525 SF
A1.0
700 SF
A2.0
725 SF
A2.0
725 SF
A2.0
725 SF
A2.0
725 SF
2,291 SF
LOBBY
STAIR
STAIR
STAIR
1,633 SF
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
844 SF
TRASH TERM
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
ELEV
A2.0
725 SF
A2.0
725 SF
2,931 SF
LOUNGE
A2.0
725 SF
A2.0
725 SF
561 SF
UTILITY/BOH
1,089 SF
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
JR1.0
625 SF
546 SF
UTILITY/BOH
1,726 SF
CO-WORK/LEASING
719 SF
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
670 SF
LOADING/MOVE-IN
1,841 SF
BIKE STORAGE
S1.1
450 SF
S1.0
450 SF
S1.0
450 SF
B1.0
1,025 SF
B1.0
1,025 SF
B2.0
1,200 SF
A1.3
700 SF
B1.4
1,025 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
B1.4
1,025 SF
S1.1
450 SF
S1.1
450 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
A1.3
700 SF
C1.1
1,275 SF
S3
W3
W1.6
W1.7
W1.9
W1.8
POLLINATOR GARDENS
HILLSDALE BLVD
EDISON ST
LAGERSTROEMIA INDICA X FAURIEI 'MUSKOGEE'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
MAGNOLIA × SOULANGEANA
CORNUS KOUSA `SATOMI`
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON `CANE`S HYBRID`
ULMUS 'FRONTIER'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
EXISTING TREE
TO REMAIN
(TYP.)
GINKO BILOBA 'FAIRMONT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
BETULA NIGRA
MIX
CEDRUS DEODARA
EXISTING TREE
TO REMAIN (TYP.)
SYMBOL
BOTANICAL NAME
TREES
- - -
ACER BUERGERIANUM
ACER CIRCINATUM
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CEDRUS ATLANTICA 'GLAUCA'
CEDRUS DEODARA
CERATONIA SILIQUA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
ALT: CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
LAGERSTROE MIA "NATCHEZ`
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
ALT: EUCALYPTUS SPATHULATA
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
PISTACIA X 'RED PUSH'
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
QUERCUS 'STREETSPIRE'
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
TABEBUIA IMPETIGINOSA
TILIA TOMENTOSA
ULMUS X 'FRONTIER'
ALT: CORYMBIA MACULATA
TOWNHOME SHADE
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
TOWNHOME SUN
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
BIOSWALE MIX
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FESTUCA MAIREI
IRIS DOUGLASIANA 'PACIFIC COAST HYBRIDS'
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
SEASONAL SPECIMEN PLANTS
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GUARA LINDHEIMERI WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA 'SNOW QUEEN'
NEPHROLEPIS CORDIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA 'GREEN GODDESS'
HILLSDALE SQUARE MIX
ACACIA COGNATA
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'AGAVWS'
BOUGAINVILLEA 'ROSENKA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'HEARTS OF GOLD'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
FATSIA JAPONICA
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING BUTTERFLIES'
GREVILLEA X 'MOONLIGHT'
HEUCHERA X 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
LOMANDRA CONFERTIFOLIA
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
TOWNHOME GARDENS MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CEANOTHUS X 'CONCHA'
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
GREVILLEA LANIGERA 'MT. TAMBORITHA'
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
POLLINATOR GARDENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SHADE
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'NOVA'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS GRISEUS HORIZONTALIS 'YANKEE POINT'
MYRTUS COMMUNIS 'COMPACTA'
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
RHAPHIOLEPIS UMBELLATA 'MINOR'
FOUNDATION PLANTING - SUN
CALLISTEMON X 'CANE'S HYBRID'
FESTUCA MAIREI
FREMONTODENDRON CALIFORNICUM
LOMANDRA LONGIFOLIA 'BREEZE'
MUHLENBERGIA RIGENS
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA 'EVE CASE'
WESTRINGIA FRUTICOSA MUNDI
GREENWAY PLANTING MIX
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON BEAUTY'
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SONOMA COAST'
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'
CAREX TUMULICOLA
CEANOTHUS MARITIMUS 'POINT SIERRA'
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM 'EL CAMPO'
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
FESTUCA MAIREI
LEUCADENDRON GALPINII
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
SALVIA X 'WAVERLY'
TURF
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapePlanting.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
NORTH
L305
PLANTING PLAN
SEE SHEET L302 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET L304 FOR CONTINUATION
PLANT SCHEDULE
142 of 551

--- page 143 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeHydrozone.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L400
HYDROZONE NOTES
AND SCHEDULE
IRRIGATION NOTES
IRRIGATION MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
1.
THE SYSTEM HAS BEEN DESIGNED TO PROVIDE 100% COVERAGE. ANY CHANGES MADE IN THE LAYOUT DUE TO FIELD
CONDITIONS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE STANDARDS. QUANTITIES IN SCHEDULE ARE ESTIMATED. PLAN
SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE.
2.
ALL IRRIGATION LINES AND VALVES ARE SHOWN DIAGRAMMATICALLY. ALL LINES AND VALVES TO BE INSTALLED IN
PLANTING AREAS WHERE POSSIBLE.
3.
CONTRACTOR TO FIELD LOCATE ALL PROPOSED IRRIGATION WATER MAIN LINE LOCATIONS. CONTACT LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT PRIOR TO START OF WORK IF DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN THIS PLAN AND EXISTING CONDITIONS ARE FOUND.
4.
LOCATE ALL VALVES INSIDE LANDSCAPE AREAS, ALLOWING ACCESS FOR MAINTENANCE PURPOSES, BUT HIDING THEM
FROM PUBLIC VIEW WHENEVER POSSIBLE.
5.
ALL PRESSURE MAINLINES UNDER ASPHALT PAVEMENT SHALL BE PLACED WITHIN SLEEVES AS NOTED. WHERE ELECTRIC
VALVE CONTROL LINES PASS THROUGH A SLEEVE WITH OTHER MAIN OR LATERAL LINES THEY SHALL BE CONTAINED
WITHIN A SEPARATE, SMALLER CONDUIT.
6.
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS OF THE FINAL INSTALLATION TO OWNER AT SUBSTANTIAL
COMPLETION BEFORE RECEIVING FINAL PAYMENT.
7.
ALL SLEEVES UTILIZED BY THE IRRIGATION CONTRACTOR, WHETHER INSTALLED BY HIM OR NOT, SHALL BE LOCATED ON
THE "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS. THE DEPTH BELOW FINISH GRADE,  TO THE NEAREST FOOT OF EACH END OF EACH SLEEVE
SHALL BE NOTED AT EACH SLEEVE LOCATION ON THE "AS-BUILT"  DRAWINGS. ALL SLEEVES SHALL BE SIZED TWO PIPE
SIZES GREATER THAN PIPE IT CARRIES.
8.
IRRIGATION CONTRACTOR SHALL SECURE ANY AND ALL NECESSARY PERMITS FOR THE WORK PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT
OF HIS OPERATIONS ON-SITE. COPIES OF THE PERMITS SHALL BE  SENT TO THE OWNER/GENERAL CONTRACTOR. WORK IN
THE  R.O.W. SHALL CONFORM TO THE STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS OF LOCAL AND/OR STATE HIGHWAY
JURISDICTION.
9.
VERIFY CONTROLLER AND RAIN SENSOR LOCATION AND MAINLINE POINT OF CONNECTION AT PROJECT SITE WITH OWNER.
10. ELECTRIC SERVICE TO CONTROLLER SHALL BE PROVIDED BY THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR.
11. INSTALLATION OF WORK SHALL BE COORDINATED WITH OTHER  CONTRACTORS IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO ALLOW FOR A
SPEEDY  AND ORDERLY COMPLETION OF ALL WORK ON THE SITE.
12.
COORDINATE WITH PLANTING PLAN FOR PLANTER BED LOCATIONS AND TREE LOCATIONS.
13. PRIOR TO THE START OF CONSTRUCTION, CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH DEVELOPER FOR OPERATING
PARAMETERS OF MASTER SYSTEM.  THIS DESIGN REQUIRES STATIC 83 PSI TO OPERATE.  IF THE MASTER SYSTEM CANNOT
PROVIDE THESE PARAMETERS, CONTRACTOR SHALL MAKE ADJUSTMENTS TO THE DESIGN BY ADDING CONTROL VALVES,
A BOOSTER PUMP, PRESSURE REDUCING VALVE, OR OTHER EQUIPMENT, AS NECESSARY.  CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT
DESIGN REVISIONS TO OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO SUBMITTING BID.
14.
A FINAL REPORT FOR THE TESTING AND ADJUSTING OF ALL NEW SYSTEMS SHALL BE COMPLETED PRIOR TO FINAL
APPROVAL BY THE FIELD INSPECTOR. THIS REPORT SHALL BE SIGNED BY THE INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBLE FOR
PERFORMING THESES SERVICES.
15.
A LAMINATED DIAGRAM OF THE IRRIGATION PLAN SHOWING HYDROZONES SHALL BE KEPT WITH THE IRRIGATION
CONTROLLER FOR SUBSEQUENT MANAGEMENT PURPOSES.
16.
A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION SHALL BE FILLED OUT AND CERTIFIED BY EITHER THE SIGNER OF THE LANDSCAPE PLANS,
THE SIGNER OF THE IRRIGATION PLANS, OR THE LICENSED LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR FOR THE PROJECT.
17.
AN IRRIGATION AUDIT REPORT SHALL BE COMPLETED AT THE TIME OF FINAL INSPECTION.
18.
ALL INSTALLED IRRIGATION LINES MUST MAINTAIN A 3'-0" HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE AND 1'-0" VERTICAL CLEARANCE FROM
ALL JOINT TRENCH DRY UTILITIES, ROUTING AND EQUIPMENT. (3'-0" HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE MEASURED FROM EDGE TO
EDGE OF PIPES.)
THE IRRIGATION MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE TASKS LISTED BELOW ARE INTENDED AS MINIMUM STANDARDS AND MORE
FREQUENT ATTENTION MAY BE REQUIRED DEPENDING ON THE PARTICULAR SITE CONDITIONS. MAINTENANCE SHALL BE DONE
TO ENSURE WATER EFFICIENCY. REPAIR OF IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE ORIGINALLY SPECIFIED
MATERIALS OR APPROVED EQUIVALENTS.
FREQUENCY - QUARTERLY
TASK - CONTROLLER CABINET : OPEN CABINET AND CLEAN OUT DEBRIS AND REPLACE BATTERY AS NECESSARY.CHECK
WIRING AND REPAIR AS NEEDED AND CHECK CLOCK AND RESET IF NECESSARY.
FREQUENCY - MONTHLY
TASK - IRRIGATION SCHEDULE: ADJUST SCHEDULE FOR SEASONAL VARIATIONS AND OTHER CONDITIONS WHICH MAY AFFECT
THE AMOUNT OF WATER NEEDED TO MAINTAIN PLANT HEALTH. ADJUST AS NECESSARY.
FREQUENCY - QUARTERLY
TASK - POC: VISUALLY INSPECT COMPONENTS FOR LEAKS, PRESSURE SETTINGS, SETTLEMENT OR OTHER DAMAGE
AFFECTING THE OPERATION OF A COMPONENT. REPAIR AS NEEDED.
FREQUENCY - QUARTERLY
TASK - REMOTE CONTROL VALVES : ISOLATION VALVES AND QUICK COUPLER VALVES: VISUALLY INSPECT FOR LEAKS,
SETTLEMENTS, WIRE CONNECTIONS AND PRESSURE SETTINGS. REPAIR AS NEEDED.
FREQUENCY - QUARTERLY
TASK - MAINLINE AND LATERALS: VISUALLY INSPECT FOR LEAKS OR SETTLEMENTS OF TRENCH.
FREQUENCY - WEEKLY
TASK -  FILTERS AND STRAINERS - VISUALLY CHECK FOR ANY BROKEN MALIGNED OR CLOGGED HEADS, 
HEADS 
WITH
INCORRECT ARC, INADEQUATE COVERAGE OR OVERSPRAY AND LOW HEAD DRAINAGE. REPAIR AS NEEDED.
FREQUENCY - MONTHLY
TASK - FILTERS AND STRAINERS: VISUALLY CHECK FOR LEAKS, BROKEN FITTINGS. CLEAN AND FLUSH SCREENS.
I HAVE COMPLIED WITH THE CRITERIA OF THE WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM FOR THE
EFFICIENT USE OF WATER IN THE IRRIGATION DESIGN PLAN.
NICOLE KELLY, LLA 6011
DECODERS
CONTROLLER SHALL INTERFACE WITH HUNTER ICD DECODERS, EACH CAPABLE OF CONTROLLING 1, 2, 4, OR 6 VALVES (ICD-100,
ICD-200, ICD-400, AND ICD-600)
PROVIDE AN ICD-SEN SENSOR DECODER FOR FLOW SENSOR(S) AND/OR CLIK SENSOR(S) ON TWO WIRE PATH
WIRE CONNECTIONS FROM DECODER OUTPUT TO SOLENOID SHALL BE 14 AWG, TYPE PE
WIRE DISTANCE FROM DECODER OUTPUT TO SOLENOID UNDER NORMAL CONDITIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED 150-FT [45-M]
INSTALL IN VALVE BOX ON DECODER STAKE KIT (DECSTAKE-10) WITH BOTTOM OF DECODER FACING UP
CONTRACTOR SHALL INDICATE ASSOCIATED VALVE NUMBER(S) ON MANUFACTURER PROVIDED LABEL ON DECODER WITH
PERMANENT MARKER
WIRE
WIRE FOR TWO-WIRE PATH SHALL BE TWISTED AND JACKETED HUNTER IDWIRE, OR APPROVED EQUAL (PAIGE ELECTRIC
P7354D); COATED WIRE SHALL NOT BE ACCEPTED AS AN EQUAL. ACCEPTABLE EQUAL PRODUCTS MUST CONSIST OF TWO
SEPARATELY PE JACKETED WIRE TWISTED INSIDE OF A PE JACKET
CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL IDWIRE1 (14 AWG) FOR WIRE PATH LENGTH UP TO 10,000-FT [3,048-M] AND IDWIRE2 (12 AWG) FOR
WIRE PATH LENGTH UP TO 15,000-FT [4,572-M], WIRE PATH LENGHTS DECREASE WITH SUBSTITUTED WIRE
WIRE JACKET COLORS SHALL BE SUCH TO FACILITATE THE IDENTIFICATION OF VARIOUS WIRE PATH ZONES; SEE WIRE JACKET
CHART FOR WIRE TYPE, COLOR AND ASSOCIATED VALVES
THE CONTROLLER ALLOWS UP TO THREE (3) TWO-WIRE PATHS PER OUTPUT MODULE, CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT CONNECT
ANY TWO-WIRE PATH FROM ONE OUTPUT MODULE TO ANOTHER OUTPUT MODULE
WIRE CONNECTION FROM DECODER OUTPUT TO SOLENOID SHALL BE COLORED TO MATCH THE ASSOCIATED DECODER
OUTPUT STATION COLOR; RED AND BLUE COLORED WIRES SHALL NOT BE USED FOR CONNECTION BETWEEN DECODER
OUTPUT AND SOLENOID
SPLICES
ALL CONNECTIONS AND SPLICES IN THE RED/BLUE TWO-WIRE PATH MUST BE MADE WITH 3M DBR/Y-6 WATERPROOF
CONNECTORS INSTALLED PER MANUFACTURERS INSTRUCTIONS IN VALVE BOX WITH OPEN END OF CONNECTOR FACING
DOWN
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE 36-IN [1-M] LOOP OF SLACK WIRE, MEASURED FROM TOP OF VALVE BOX, NEATLY COILED INSIDE
ALL SPLICE BOXES AND VALVE BOXES
ANY SPLICES IN THE TWO-WIRE PATH NOT ASSOCIATED WITH A DECODER SHALL BE HOUSED IN SEPARATE VALVE BOXES WITH
36-IN [1-M] LOOP OF SLACK WIRE
CONTRACTOR SHALL INDICATE TWO-WIRE PATH DIRECTIONS IN PERMANENT MARKER WITHIN 6-IN [2.5-CM] OF TWO-WIRE
SPLICE ON WIRE JACKET OR ID TAG ZIP TIED TO WIRE:
INCOMING WIRE SHALL BE MARKED “CONTROLLER” ON WIRE JACKET OR ID TAG AND MUST INCLUDE ZIP-TIE ATTACHED TO
WIRE JACKET
EACH OUTGOING TWO-WIRE PATH SHALL BE MARKED WITH CONNECTED VALVES ON WIRE JACKET
CONTRACTOR SHALL ENSURE ALL CONNECTIONS TO BE WATERTIGHT WITH NO ELECTRICAL LEAKAGE TO GROUND OR
SHORTING BETWEEN CONDUCTORS
GROUNDING
ALL GROUNDING AND INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT SPECIFIED SHALL BE INSTALLED IN STRICT COMPLIANCE WITH THE
MANUFACTURER’S RECOMMENDATIONS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS
BOTH THE CONTROLLER AND THE DECODERS SHALL BE GROUNDED TO GROUND RODS OR PLATES WITH LESS THAN 10 OHMS
RESISTANCE
IRRIGATION CONTROLLER AND PAD SHALL NOT FALL WITHIN THE SPHERE OF INFLEUNCE OF A GROUND ROD OR PLATE
AT A MINIMUM, EARTH GROUND SHALL BE CONNECTED AT THE FIRST DECODER OF EACH WIRE PATH LEAVING THE
CONTROLLER, AND EVERY 12TH VALVE/DECODER OR 1,000-FT [304-M] OF TWO-WIRE RUN (WHICHEVER IS SHORTER), AND AT
THE LAST VALVE/DECODER IN ANY WIRE RUN EXCEEDING 50’ FROM MAIN WIRE PATH
FOR USE OF GROUNDING PLATE:
SOLID COPPER GROUNDING PLATE SHALL HAVE A PRE-WELDED #6 AWG INSULATED GREEN-YELLOW WIRE
GROUND PLATES ARE TO BE INSTALLED TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 30-IN [76-CM]
GROUND PLATES SHALL BE MADE OF A COPPER ALLOY INTENDED FOR GROUNDING APPLICATIONS AND HAVE MINIMUM
DIMENSIONS AS FOLLOWS:
A.
FOR GROUNDING CONTROLLERS – 4-IN [10-CM] X 8-FT [1.2-M] X 0.0625-IN [1.5-MM] SOLID COPPER GROUNDING PLATE, A
25-FT [7.6-M] CONTINUOUS LENGTH OF 6 AWG, GREEN INSULATED, WITH EXTRUDED YELLOW STRIPE, SOLID BARE
COPPER WIRE WELDED TO THE PLATE (PAIGE ELECTRIC 182199IC) AND TWO 50-LB [22.6-KG] BAGS OF POWER SET EARTH
CONTACT MATERIAL OR TWO 50-LB [22.6-KG] BAGS OF POWERFILL EARTH CONTACT MATERIAL (PAIGE ELECTRIC 1820059)
FOR NON-POROUS SOILS
B.
FOR GROUNDING DECODERS – 4-IN [10-CM] X 3-FT [1-M] X 0.0625-IN [1.5-MM] SOLID COPPER GROUNDING PLATE, A 15-FT
[4.5-M] CONTINUOUS LENGTH OF 10 AWG, GREEN INSULATED, WITH EXTRUDED YELLOW STRIPE, SOLID BARE COPPER
WIRE IS WELDED TO THE PLATE (PAIGE ELECTRIC 182201IC) AND ONE 50-LB [22.6-KG] BAG OF POWER SET EARTH
CONTACT MATERIAL OR ONE 50-LB [22.6-KG] BAGS OF POWERFILL EARTH CONTACT MATERIAL (PAIGE ELECTRIC 1820059)
FOR NON-POROUS SOILS
FOR USE OF GROUNDING ROD:
GROUND ROD SHALL BE 5/8-IN [15-MM] DIAMETER X 8-FT [1.2-M] LONG COPPER CLAD STEEL GROUND RODS WITH 15-FT [4.5-M]
PRE-WELDED #6 AWG INSULATED GREEN-YELLOW WIRE (PAIGE ELECTRIC PART # 182000IC6)
GROUND ROD SHALL BE DRIVEN INTO THE GROUND IN A VERTICAL POSITION OR AN OBLIQUE ANGLE NOT TO EXCEED 45
DEGREES AT A LOCATION 10-FT [3-M] FROM THE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT, THE GROUND PLATE, OR THE WIRES AND CABLES
CONNECTED TO EQUIPMENT BEING GROUNDED
ADDITIONAL GROUND ROD IN DAISY CHAIN INSTALLATION SHALL BE 5/8-IN [15-MM] DIAMETER X 8-FT [1.2-M] LONG COPPER CLAD
STEEL GROUND RODS WITH 25-FT [4.5-M] PRE-WELDED #6 AWG INSULATED GREEN-YELLOW WIRE (PAIGE ELECTRIC PART
#182007IC6)
GROUND RODS SHALL BE COVERED BY A VALVE BOX
ALL CIRCUIT COMPONENTS SHALL BE INSTALLED IN STRAIGHT LINES
GROUND ROD AND PLATE LOCATION
CONTRACTOR SHALL LOCATE AND INSTALL GROUND ROD AND/OR PLATE IN AREA OF REGULAR MOIST SOIL TO MAXIMZE
ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY
TWO-WIRE IRRIGATION NOTES
143 of 551

--- page 144 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeReferenceImages.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L801
LANDSCAPE
REFERENCE IMAGES -
HARDSCAPE
HARDSCAPE
CITY STANDARD BIKE RACK LAYOUTS
BIKE LANE PAVING
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
CONCRETE WALK AND SEATWALL
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS, VEHICULAR CONDITION
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS AT CROSSWALK
CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
BIKE RACK
144 of 551

--- page 145 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeReferenceImages.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L802
LANDSCAPE
REFERENCE IMAGES -
FURNITURE
FURNITURE
PAOLA LENTI 'LINEA' CHAISE LOUNGE
BUFANO SCULPTURE EXAMPLE
CUSTOM LOUNGE FURNITURE
'FENNE' WOOD PLANTER BY YANYOU
'CONCLAY' PLANTERS
BY YANYOU
LOLL 'LOLLYGAGGER' LOUNGE CHAIR
PERMANENT WOOD SEATING
PERMANENT WOOD SEATING
MOVABLE FURNITURE
SEATWALL WITH PLANTING
SEATWALL WITH PLANTING
'GENERATION 50' BENCH BY LANDSCAPE FORMS
145 of 551

--- page 146 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeReferenceImages.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L803
LANDSCAPE
REFERENCE IMAGES -
LIGHTING
LIGHTING
PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE 2/ CENTENARY LIGHT: LANDSCAPE FORMS TUMBLER LIGHT
MULTI-DIRECTIONAL LIGHT: ARINI BY HESS
STEP LIGHT: BEGA 24880
GLOW AGGREGATE
EMBEDDED LINEAR LED LIGHTING
EXISTING LIGHTS TO REMAIN
STREET LIGHT + PEDESTRIAN SCALE POLE LIGHT 1:
POLE-TOP LUMINAIRE BY BEGA
146 of 551

--- page 147 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeReferenceImages.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L804
LANDSCAPE
REFERENCE IMAGES -
PLANTING
TILIA TOMENTOSA 'STERLING'
STERLING SILVER LINDEN
CEDRUS ATLANTICA
ATLAS CEDAR
CEDRUS DEODARA
DEODAR CEDAR
CERCIS CANADENSIS 'FOREST PANSY'
FOREST PANSY REDBUD
CORYMBIA CALOPHYLLA
MARRI
CORYMBIA MACULATA
SPOTTED GUM
CALLISTEMON 'CANE'S HYBRID'
CANE'S BOTTLEBRUSH
MAGNOLIA X SOULANGEANA
SAUCER MAGNOLIA
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE
PLATANUS RACEMOSA 'ROBERTS'
ROBERTS' WESTERN SYCAMORE
QUERCUS AGRIFOLIA
COAST LIVE OAK
STREET TREES
EUCALYPTUS SPHAEROCARPA
BLACKDOWN STRINGYBARK
CORNUS KOUSA 'SATOMI'
KOUSA DOGWOOD
ACER CIRCINATUM
VINE MAPLE
BETULA NIGRA
RIVER BIRCH
GINKGO BILOBA 'FAIRMOUNT'
FAIRMOUNT GINKGO
ULMUS 'FRONTIER'
FRONTIER ELM
LIRIODENDRON TULIPIFERA
TULIP POPLAR
LAGERSTROEMIA 'NATCHEZ'
CRAPE MYRTLE
PARK TREES
GARDEN TREES
ALTERNATES
147 of 551

--- page 148 ---
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\L-LandscapeReferenceImages.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
L805
LANDSCAPE
REFERENCE IMAGES -
PLANTING
SHRUBS / GROUNDCOVER
CAREX TUMULICOLA
FOOTHILL SEDGE
CEANOTHUS 'CONCHA'
CONCHA CALIFORNIA LILAC
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM
'EL CAMPO'
SMALL CAPE RUSH
CISTUS SALVIIFOLIUS
SAGELEAF ROCKROSE
COTINUS COGGYGRIA
SMOKE TREE
ECHEVERIA
HENS AND CHICKS
ERIGERON KARVINSKIANUS
LATIN AMERICAN FLEABANE
FESTUCA MAIREI
ATLAS FESCUE
GAURA LINDHEIMERI 'WHIRLING
BUTTERFLIES'
WAND FLOWER
GREVILLEA LANIGERA
'MT TAMBORITHA'
WOOLLY GREVILLEA
HELLEBORUS ARGUTIFOLIUS
HOLLY-LEAVED HELLEBORE
HEUCHERA 'OLD LA ROCHETTE'
CORAL BELLS
HYDRANGEA QUERCIFOLIA
'SNOW QUEEN'
SNOW QUEEN OAKLEAF HYDRANGEA
IRIS PCH
PACIFIC COAST HYBRID IRIS
LEUCADENDRON 'LITTLE BIT'
LITTLE BIT CONE BUSH
ACACIA COGNATA 'COUSIN ITT'
LITTLE RIVER WATTLE
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM 'SALMON
BEAUTY' + 'SONOMA COAST'
YARROW
AGAVE ATTENUATA 'RAY OF LIGHT'
VARIEGATED FOX TAIL AGAVE
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS 'EMERALD CARPET'
EMERALD CARPET MANZANITA
BESCHORNERIA YUCCOIDES
'FLAMINGO GLOW'
VARIEGATED AMOLE
BOUGAINVILLEA
BOUTELOUA GRACILIS
'BLONDE AMBITION'
BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA
RIBES SANGUINEUM 'CLAREMONT'
FLOWERING CURRANT
SALVIA NEMOROSA 'MAY NIGHT'
MAY NIGHT MEADOW SAGE
SALVIA ULIGINOSA
BOG SAGE
SISYRINCHIUM BELLUM
WESTERN BLUE-EYED GRASS
OLEA EUROPAEA 'MONTRA'
LITTLE OLLIE DWARF OLIVE
POLYSTICHUM MUNITUM
WESTERN SWORD FERN
148 of 551

--- page 149 ---
1
S1-A100
1
S2-A100
36TH AVE
1
C4-A100
E1
E2
E3
S1
S2
C5
C1
C4
C3
W2
W3
EL CAMINO REAL
LAUREL CREEK
31ST AVE
HILLSDALE BLVD
C2
S4
S3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\A-BasementLevel2.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
 1" = 80'-0"
1
BASEMENT LEVEL 2 SITE PLAN
BASEMENT LEVEL 2
SITE PLAN
A001
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR,
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS
 FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
SHEET NOTES
N
149 of 551

--- page 150 ---
1
E1-A100
1
E2-A100
1
E3-A100
1
S1-A101
1
C1-A100
1
C5-A100
1
S2-A101
E1
E2
E3
S1
S2
C5
C1
C4
C3
W2
W3
EL CAMINO REAL
LAUREL CREEK
31ST AVE
HILLSDALE BLVD
1
C3-A100
1
W3-A100
1
W2-A100
1
C4-A101
C2
S4
S3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
36TH AVE
A
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16
K:\BAY_LDEV\197543001 - Hillsdale Redevelopment - MCM\03 CADD\PlanSheets\Master Development Plan\A-BasementLevel1.dwg
197543001
2025
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT
NORTH
E1
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
 1" = 80'-0"
1
BASEMENT LEVEL 1 SITE PLAN
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
SITE PLAN
A002
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR,
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
SHEET NOTES
N
150 of 551

--- page 151 ---
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
U P
1
E1-A101
1
E2-A101
1
E3-A101
1
S1-A101
1
C1-A101
1
C2-A101
1
C5-A100
1
S2-A101
E1
E2
E3
S1
S2
C5
C2
C1
S4
C4
C3
W2
W3
S3
EL CAMINO REAL
LAUREL CREEK
31ST AVE
32ND AVE
33RD AVE
HILLSDALE BLVD
E SAILER DR
W SAILER DR
EDISON LN
36TH AVE
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
1
C3-A101
1
W1-A101B
1
W3-A101
1
W2-A101
1
S3-A101
1
S4-A101
1
C4-A101
1
W1-A101A
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
E3
C1
C2
C3
C4
C5
S1
S2
S3
S4
W2
W3
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:53 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
GROUND LEVEL SITE
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
A003
1" = 80'-0"
1
GROUND LEVEL SITE PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
- FOR WASTE/ TRASH MANAGEMENT STAGING AREA, 
SEE BLDG PLANS
151 of 551

--- page 152 ---
10'-0"
30'-0"
5'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
9'-0"
21'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
20'-0"
45'-7"
28'-7"
48'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
322'-6"
17'-6"
200'-3"
18'-1"
STAIR
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
-15.00'
ENTRY
EXIT
-8.25'
9.0% RAMP UP
11.5% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
9'-0"
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
26'-8"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
9'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
AMB
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
10'-0"
TYP.
GROCER
ELEV.
GROUND
TO
BASEMENT
SERV.
ELEV.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
GROCER ESCALATOR
TO GROUND LEVEL
TRASH/RECYCLING
RM
2'-0"
6'-6"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
ADA
VAN
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
12'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET E2-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET C1-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
E1
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
E1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
E1-A100
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
152 of 551

--- page 153 ---
24'-7"
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-3"
10'-8"
8'-4"
91'-2"
8'-3"
30'-1"
18'-3"
11'-4"
16'-10"
67'-10"
8'-5"
61'-10"
5'-10"
31'-9"
160'-9"
7'-6"
13'-9"
41'-6"
6'-10"
88'-11"
8'-9"
31'-9"
159'-10"
8'-5"
16'-6"
51'-6"
7'-0"
184'-2"
15'-10"
26'-8"
275'-0"
19'-0"
15'-0"
171'-8"
5'-6"
61'-1"
21'-9"
26'-8"
275'-0"
19'-0"
RAMP DOWN
39'-7"
17'-8"
10'-7"
54'-2"
STAIR
STAIR
ELEV.
ELEV.
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
TENANT
LOBBY
STAIR
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
BIKE PARKING
18'-2"
5'-6"
GROCER
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
EAST SAILER DR
EL CAMINO REAL
31ST AVENUE
32RD AVENUE
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A301
1
E1-A302
1
E1-A401
ESCALATOR
LINE OF CANOPY ABOVE, TYP.
BERTH 
10'x50' 
BERTH 
10'x50' 
BERTH 
10'x50' 
11.5%
8%
24'-0"
LOADING DOCK/PARKING 
ENTRY ROLLUP GATE, SEE 
ELEVATIONS
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING AREA
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:30:16 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
153 of 551

--- page 154 ---
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-3"
10'-8"
8'-4"
18'-3"
11'-4"
30'-1"
13'-6"
8'-4"
51'-6"
19'-4"
3'-10"
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
19'-0"
275'-0"
26'-8"
7'-6"
160'-9"
31'-9"
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A302
21'-9"
61'-1"
5'-6"
171'-8"
15'-0"
9'-7"
89'-0"
6'-10"
41'-10"
13'-5"
16'-10"
69'-2"
7'-1"
61'-10"
5'-10"
7'-6"
160'-9"
31'-9"
16'-6"
51'-6"
7'-0"
184'-2"
15'-10"
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A301
24'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:01 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
154 of 551

--- page 155 ---
25'-2"
20'-5"
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-3"
10'-8"
8'-4"
18'-3"
11'-4"
8'-4"
13'-6"
30'-1"
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
ROOF /
TERRACE
ROOF /
TERRACE
B.O.H.
8'-5"
159'-5"
32'-2"
19'-11"
273'-2"
27'-7"
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A302
16'-9"
67'-6"
8'-1"
62'-6"
12'-8"
7'-10"
61'-6"
5'-9"
171'-4"
14'-1"
32'-2"
159'-5"
8'-5"
15'-3"
51'-10"
7'-4"
183'-6"
15'-3"
9'-2"
6'-5"
81'-10"
7'-2"
41'-10"
13'-0"
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A301
24'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:01 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A103
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN (L4, L5 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
155 of 551

--- page 156 ---
25'-2"
20'-5"
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-3"
10'-8"
8'-4"
18'-3"
11'-4"
30'-1"
8'-4"
13'-6"
30'-1"
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
BALCONY
ROOF /
TERRACE
LEASE SPACE
12'-11"
141'-6"
45'-7"
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A302
43'-2"
244'-11"
32'-7"
7'-10"
61'-6"
4'-9"
160'-2"
10'-8"
10'-3"
60'-8"
8'-5"
51'-10"
10'-4"
45'-7"
141'-6"
12'-11"
73'-5"
155'-10"
15'-8"
70'-11"
8'-1"
62'-6"
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A301
24'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:01 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A104
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
156 of 551

--- page 157 ---
25'-2"
20'-5"
10'-0"
8'-3"
10'-8"
8'-4"
18'-3"
11'-4"
30'-1"
8'-4"
13'-6"
30'-1"
BALCONY
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
132'-3"
54'-10"
12'-11"
32'-7"
235'-3"
52'-10"
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A302
160'-10"
5'-1"
61'-6"
7'-10"
62'-0"
7'-9"
52'-6"
10'-0"
5'-0"
230'-3"
54'-0"
133'-1"
12'-11"
62'-6"
8'-1"
62'-6"
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A301
24'-4"
8'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:02 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - LEVEL 7 TYP. PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A105
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - LEVEL 7 PLAN (L8 - L10 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
157 of 551

--- page 158 ---
ROOF
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE
SCREEN
PARAPET
PENTHOUSE
8'-4"
18'-9"
11'-4"
SERV. ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1
E1-A303
1
E1-A302
52'-10"
234'-5"
33'-5"
7'-0"
61'-9"
3'-10"
161'-10"
54'-10"
132'-3"
12'-11"
10'-0"
52'-6"
7'-9"
62'-0"
12'-11"
132'-3"
54'-10"
62'-0"
7'-9"
62'-6"
5'-0"
229'-5"
1
E1-A351
1
E1-A351
2
E1-A301
1
E1-A301
48'-6"
31'-1"
ROOF
30'-1"
47'-6"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:02 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A106
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E1 - PENTHOUSE ROOF PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
158 of 551

--- page 159 ---
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:02 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A300
NTS
2
E1 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
E1 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
159 of 551

--- page 160 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.85'
28.13' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
173'-9"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
154'-9"
11
22
8
12
14
6
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-10" O.C.
HEIGHT: 16'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-7" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-10" O.C.
HEIGHT: 13'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-8" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
6
22
14
22
8
12
14
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 17'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 15'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 27'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 24'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 1'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6" 
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:03 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - SOUTH (32ND AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E1 - NORTH (31ST AVE.) ELEVATION
2
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
160 of 551

--- page 161 ---
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.85'
28.13' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
173'-9"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
154'-9"
6
22
12
22
8
11
6
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 17'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 16'-0"
HEIGHT: 17'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 24'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 13'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6" 
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-9"
HEIGHT: 17'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 1'-6"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:04 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A302
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - EAST (EL CAMINO REAL) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
161 of 551

--- page 162 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.85'
28.13' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
173'-9"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
154'-9"
14
14
22
12
22
8
11
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 8'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-9"
HEIGHT: 8'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-8" O.C.
HEIGHT: 13'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 13'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6" 
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:05 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A303
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - WEST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
162 of 551

--- page 163 ---
E1 GROUND LEVEL
0"
E1 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
E1 LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
E1 ROOF
153' - 0"
E1 TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-15' - 0"
PARKING
31ST AVE
32ND AVE
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
173'-9"
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
154'-9"
28.13' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
CLG, TYP
10'-0"
CLG
12'-0"
CLR
8'-6"
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
RAMP DOWN
GROCER
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
TENANT
LOBBY
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
TERRACE
TERRACE
TERRACE
ELEV.
ELEV.
STAIR
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE SCREEN
FFE 29.85'
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
STAIR
PARKING
MECH EQUIP
MECH EQUIP
FFE: 29.85
FFE: 28.03
FFE: 29.85
CLR
8'-6"
11.5%
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
163 of 551

--- page 164 ---
BIKE RACK
7'-0"
27 RACKS
5'-10"
1'-3"
NOTES:
EACH RACK CAN ACCOMMODATE 
2 VERTICALLY STACKED BIKES
27 X 2 =  54 TOTAL BIKES
E1
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:05 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E1 - ENLARGED PLANS
23.04025.00
2025
E1-A401
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
E1 - LONG TERM BIKE PARKING PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
164 of 551

--- page 165 ---
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
15'-4"
14'-8"
15'-4"
14'-8"
ELEV.
STAIR
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
-15.00'
ENTRY
EXIT
-8.25'
9.0% RAMP UP
8.6% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
9'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'
LL,
9'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
SERV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
LOBBY
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
15'-4"
14'-8"
15'-4"
14'-8"
330'-0"
336'-10"
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
OP LINE
3'-11"
ADA
ADA
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET E1-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET E3-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
E2
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
E2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
E2-A100
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
165 of 551

--- page 166 ---
1
E2-A401
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
PARKING
95'-2"
85'-5"
29'-6"
27'-11"
8'-4"
19'-5"
9'-5"
10'-8"
28'-6"
96'-2"
64'-4"
5'-0"
9'-5"
137'-6"
25'-4"
8'-7"
85'-4"
25'-11"
276'-2"
32'-11"
13'-1"
250'-0"
13'-1"
34'-6"
158'-11"
6'-7"
16'-4"
66'-0"
25'-10"
39'-3"
11'-6"
25'-11"
276'-2"
32'-11"
9'-9"
266'-4"
82'-6"
60'-5"
9'-3"
20'-4"
30'-1"
11'-4"
17'-8"
11'-11"
8'-3"
10'-0"
9'-5"
8'-4"
34'-6"
158'-11"
6'-7"
15'-5"
132'-0"
11'-6"
29'-2"
EAST SAILER DR
EL CAMINO REAL
32ND AVENUE
33RD AVENUE
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A301
1
E2-A303
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
27'-7"
8'-4"
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
RETAIL
TENANT
LOBBY
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
RETAIL
STAIR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
BIKE PARKING
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
BERTH 10'x25'
TYP. OF 2
13%
8%
8%
RAMP UP    
6%
8%
RAMP UP    
13%
23'-10"
23'-10"
24'-2"
BERTH 
10'x25'
TYP. OF 
4
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING AREA
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 5:19:20 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
172
5
1
46
1
1
1
0
0
227
LEVEL 2
60
2
1
16
1
1
1
0
0
82
GROUND
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
BASEMENT B1
103
3
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
136
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING E2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
166 of 551

--- page 167 ---
13'-1"
250'-0"
13'-1"
32'-11"
276'-2"
25'-11"
11'-6"
132'-0"
15'-5"
6'-7"
158'-11"
34'-7"
70'-0"
196'-4"
9'-9"
6'-7"
158'-11"
34'-6"
11'-6"
131'-1"
16'-4"
8'-4"
19'-5"
10'-0"
8'-4"
9'-6"
8'-9"
30'-1"
11'-4"
18'-4"
9'-3"
20'-4"
18'-7"
10'-11"
23'-11"
8'-4"
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
STAIR
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
STAIR
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
PARKING
EV 
ADA 
VAN
EV 
ADA
ADA
ADA
VAN
EV
ADA
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
6%
6%
18'-0"
4'-3"
5'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
5'-0"
12'-0"
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A303
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
24'-2"
24'-1"
27'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
45'-4"
32'-4"
45'-4"
R=13'-6"
R=13'-6"
R=13'-6"
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A301
10'-0"
9'-0"
EV
ADA
AMB
47'-5"
30'-3"
45'-4"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 5:19:20 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
172
5
1
46
1
1
1
0
0
227
LEVEL 2
60
2
1
16
1
1
1
0
0
82
GROUND
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
BASEMENT B1
103
3
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
136
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING E2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
167 of 551

--- page 168 ---
8'-4"
19'-5"
10'-0"
8'-3"
24'-11"
30'-1"
9'-3"
20'-4"
11'-4"
13'-6"
8'-4"
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
BALCONY
ROOF /
TERRACE
ROOF /
TERRACE
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A303
25'-11"
281'-3"
27'-10"
25'-5"
168'-0"
6'-8"
6'-8"
166'-11"
26'-6"
75'-6"
191'-4"
4'-7"
9'-9"
11'-6"
2'-0"
72'-0"
66'-3"
15'-2"
9'-1"
15'-4"
58'-0"
72'-0"
2'-3"
11'-4"
13'-1"
22'-3"
224'-8"
3'-1"
13'-1"
5'-1"
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A301
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:07 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A103
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN (L4, L5 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
168 of 551

--- page 169 ---
8'-4"
19'-5"
10'-0"
8'-3"
24'-11"
30'-1"
9'-3"
20'-4"
11'-4"
13'-6"
8'-4"
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
ROOF /
TERRACE
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A303
26'-3"
55'-1"
9'-4"
62'-0"
26'-5"
152'-8"
20'-11"
15'-7"
5'-7"
224'-9"
5'-0"
14'-11"
26'-6"
152'-8"
20'-11"
62'-0"
9'-5"
55'-0"
26'-3"
41'-4"
265'-10"
27'-10"
14'-11"
235'-4"
15'-7"
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A301
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:07 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A104
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
169 of 551

--- page 170 ---
8'-4"
19'-5"
10'-0"
8'-3"
24'-11"
30'-1"
9'-3"
20'-4"
11'-4"
13'-6"
8'-4"
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
BALCONY
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A303
128'-11"
19'-2"
51'-11"
17'-11"
38'-0"
9'-4"
63'-8"
55'-3"
236'-4"
43'-5"
20'-3"
127'-11"
51'-11"
62'-8"
9'-4"
55'-11"
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A301
52'-8"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:07 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - LEVEL 7 TYP. PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A105
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - LEVEL 7 PLAN (L8, L9 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
170 of 551

--- page 171 ---
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE
SCREEN
PARAPET
28'-0"
10'-8"
8'-10"
STAIR
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1
E2-A302
1
E2-A303
128'-5"
51'-9"
19'-11"
56'-5"
8'-8"
63'-4"
55'-11"
236'-0"
43'-1"
51'-9"
128'-5"
19'-11"
63'-4"
8'-8"
56'-5"
1
E2-A351
1
E2-A351
2
E2-A301
1
E2-A301
48'-6"
31'-1"
ROOF
47'-6"
30'-1"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:07 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A106
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E2 - PENTHOUSE ROOF PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
171 of 551

--- page 172 ---
30'-1"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
17'-10"
STAIR
ELEV.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
-15.00'
ENTRY
EXIT
-8.25'
9.0% RAMP UP
8.6% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
9'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
12'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
ELEV.
LOBBY
ELEV.
LOBBY
ELEV.
LOBBY
SERV.
ELEV.
15'-11"
45'-7"
28'-7"
48'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
14'-9"
18'-1"
6'-6"
214'-11"
30'-2"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
17'-10"
288'-0"
287'-11"
20'-0"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
ADA
VAN
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
ADA
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET E2-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
SEE SHEET C5-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
E3
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
E3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
E3-A100
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
172 of 551

--- page 173 ---
BIKE PARKING
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
RETAIL
PARKING
ELEV.
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
TENANT
LOBBY
RETAIL
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
4'-0"
27'-7"
29'-10"
27'-11"
74'-1"
86'-6"
41'-8"
8'-9"
8'-4"
10'-0"
8'-4"
10'-6"
8'-6"
31'-4"
18'-8"
10'-10"
30'-9"
9'-11"
20'-2"
15'-0"
144'-5"
4'-8"
70'-5"
23'-11"
30'-0"
258'-4"
14'-8"
180'-0"
15'-4"
155'-2"
9'-6"
79'-1"
29'-0"
9'-11"
40'-10"
10'-6"
89'-0"
89'-7"
7'-10"
74'-6"
8'-0"
179'-11"
7'-0"
258'-4"
30'-0"
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
EAST SAILER DR
EL CAMINO REAL
33RD AVENUE
HILLSDALE BLVD
1
E3-A302
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A303
1
E3-A301
B.O.H.
1
E3-A401
13%
8%
8%
8%
6%
BERTH 
10'x25' ,
TYP. OF 3
B.O.H.
STAIR
8.6%
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
23'-10"
BERTH 
10'x25' ,
TYP. OF 2
BERTH 
10'x25'
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
25'-4"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
29'-0"
28'-7"
47'-3"
7'-7"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:26:14 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
142
4
2
43
1
1
1
0
0
194
LEVEL 2
42
2
1
13
1
1
1
0
0
61
GROUND
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
BASEMENT B1
90
2
1
30
0
0
0
0
0
123
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING E3
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING AREA
173 of 551

--- page 174 ---
ELEV. ELEV. LOBBY
STAIR
ELEV.
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
STAIR
PARKING
8'-9"
9'-6"
8'-4"
10'-0"
10'-6"
8'-4"
8'-6"
30'-9"
9'-9"
20'-8"
18'-8"
11'-8"
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
PARKING
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
EV 
ADA 
VAN
ADA
ADA
VAN
EV
ADA
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
ADA
6%
6%
8%
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
9'-0"
5'-0"
12'-0"
18'-0"
9'-0"
7'-11"
9'-0"
6'-0"
12'-0"
1
E3-A302
1
E3-A303
30'-0"
258'-10"
14'-1"
15'-0"
144'-5"
4'-8"
70'-4"
24'-6"
7'-0"
180'-7"
8'-0"
74'-6"
7'-11"
90'-2"
160'-11"
9'-0"
89'-0"
180'-7"
7'-0"
15'-11"
155'-2"
9'-6"
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
26'-9"
28'-0"
25'-3"
37'-1"
24'-1"
15'-7"
47'-3"
28'-7"
47'-3"
26'-0"
49'-11"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
29'-0"
R=13'-6"
R=13'-6"
R=13'-6"
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A301
EV
ADA
AMB
9'-0"
9'-0"
10'-0"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 5:19:21 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
142
4
2
43
1
1
1
0
0
194
LEVEL 2
42
2
1
13
1
1
1
0
0
61
GROUND
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
BASEMENT B1
90
2
1
30
0
0
0
0
0
123
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING E3
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
174 of 551

--- page 175 ---
STAIR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
BALCONY
ROOF /
TERRACE
ROOF /
TERRACE
8'-6"
13'-5"
25'-0"
8'-4"
10'-0"
8'-4"
10'-6"
8'-6"
30'-5"
15'-11"
22'-7"
SERV. ELEV.
BLDG ABOVE
1
E3-A302
1
E3-A303
29'-6"
257'-7"
15'-10"
15'-0"
144'-5"
4'-8"
70'-4"
23'-3"
179'-4"
7'-0"
8'-0"
74'-6"
7'-9"
50'-8"
18'-1"
5'-7"
14'-8"
21'-0"
67'-2"
68'-9"
11'-9"
40'-6"
48'-6"
179'-4"
7'-0"
14'-8"
155'-2"
9'-6"
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A301
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:11 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - LEVEL 3-5 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A103
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN (L4, L5 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
175 of 551

--- page 176 ---
STAIR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ROOF /
TERRACE
8'-6"
13'-5"
25'-0"
8'-4"
10'-0"
8'-4"
10'-6"
8'-6"
30'-9"
BLDG ABOVE
BLDG ABOVE
BALCONY
SERV. ELEV.
B.O.H.
1
E3-A302
1
E3-A303
29'-6"
248'-10"
24'-7"
156'-8"
15'-0"
156'-8"
15'-0"
10'-9"
148'-8"
4'-8"
70'-3"
14'-6"
74'-6"
7'-9"
51'-3"
23'-1"
79'-5"
146'-3"
12'-6"
10'-9"
28'-7"
50'-8"
6'-11"
61'-3"
9'-3"
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A301
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:12 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A104
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
176 of 551

--- page 177 ---
STAIR
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
8'-6"
13'-5"
25'-0"
8'-4"
10'-0"
8'-4"
10'-6"
8'-6"
30'-9"
BALCONY
1
E3-A302
1
E3-A303
148'-7"
4'-10"
70'-3"
14'-6"
40'-3"
238'-2"
24'-7"
133'-7"
15'-0"
132'-6"
16'-1"
75'-6"
4'-4"
145'-10"
12'-6"
74'-6"
7'-9"
51'-3"
56'-1"
7'-1"
69'-4"
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A301
SERV. ELEV.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:12 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - LEVEL 7-8 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A105
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - LEVEL 7 PLAN (L8 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
177 of 551

--- page 178 ---
10'-10"
8'-6"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
PARAPET
31'-2"
SERV. ELEV.
STAIR
B.O.H.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1
E3-A302
1
E3-A303
40'-6"
223'-2"
39'-4"
148'-9"
4'-0"
70'-5"
15'-3"
132'-0"
16'-4"
3'-6"
146'-0"
12'-6"
6'-5"
75'-3"
56'-3"
6'-3"
69'-6"
1
E3-A351
1
E3-A351
2
E3-A301
1
E3-A301
29'-3"
ROOF
28'-3"
30'-2"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:12 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A106
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E3 - PENTHOUSE ROOF PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
178 of 551

--- page 179 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:12 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A300
NTS
2
E3 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
E3 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
179 of 551

--- page 180 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.10'
26.26' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
144'-10"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
125'-10"
22
12
11
4
22
10
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 8'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-6"
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
22
12
11
4
10
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 17'-6"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 10'-0"
HEIGHT: 6'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 10'-0"
HEIGHT: 2'-0"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:13 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - SOUTH (HILLSDALE BLVD) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E3 - NORTH (33RD AVE.) ELEVATION
1
2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
180 of 551

--- page 181 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.10'
26.26' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
144'-10"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
125'-10"
22
12
11
10
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 16'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 12'-6"
HEIGHT: 9'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 17'-6"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" TYP. O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6" TYP.
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:14 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A302
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - EAST (EL CAMINO REAL) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
181 of 551

--- page 182 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.10'
26.26' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
144'-10"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
125'-10"
22
12
11
10
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 8'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 12'-6"
HEIGHT: 9'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" TYP. O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6" TYP.
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" TYP. O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6" TYP.
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 17'-6"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:14 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A303
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - WEST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
182 of 551

--- page 183 ---
E3 GROUND LEVEL
0"
E3 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
E3 LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
E3 ROOF
123' - 0"
E3 TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-15' - 0"
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
STAIR
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
RAMP DOWN
ELEV. LOBBY
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
PARKING
33RD AVE
HILLSDALE BLVD
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
26.26' LOWEST 
EXISTING GRADE 
AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
144'-10"
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
125'-10"
B.O.H.
CLR
8'-6"
CLR
8'-6"
LEASE SPACE
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
STAIR
B.O.H.
STAIR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
STAIR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
CLG
10'-0"
TERRACE
PARKING
STAIR
PARKING
FFE 29.10'
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE SCREEN
STAIR
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
ELEV.
STAIR
PARKING
PARKING
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
MECH EQUIP
FFE: 28.09
FFE: 28.80
FFE: 28.80
FFE: 27.02
8'-6" CLR
8.6%
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:57 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
183 of 551

--- page 184 ---
BIKE RACK
7'-0"
1'-3"
8'-6"
13 RACKS
12 RACKS
NOTES:
EACH RACK CAN ACCOMMODATE 
2 VERTICALLY STACKED BIKES
25 X 2 =  50 TOTAL BIKES
6'-1"
1'-3"
1'-3"
2'-9"
8'-0"
17'-11"
15'-0"
9'-6"
19'-6"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E3
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:15 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E3 - ENLARGED PLANS
23.04025.00
2025
E3-A401
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
E3 - LONG TERM BIKE PARKING PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
184 of 551

--- page 185 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:08 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A300
NTS
2
E2 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
E2 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
185 of 551

--- page 186 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
22
5
2
11
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
138' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
157' - 0"
FFE 29.00'
26.98' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
159'-0"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
140'-0"
2
22
6
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-2" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-10" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
22
5
2
11
22
2
6
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:08 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - SOUTH (33RD AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
E2 - NORTH (32ND AVE.) ELEVATION
1
2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
186 of 551

--- page 187 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
138' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
157' - 0"
FFE 29.00'
26.98' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
159'-0"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
140'-0"
5
2
22
22
11
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 18'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6"
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
2
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:09 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A302
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - EAST (EL CAMINO REAL) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
187 of 551

--- page 188 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
138' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
157' - 0"
FFE 29.00'
26.98' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
159'-0"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
140'-0"
5
2
22
22
11
2
5
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 18'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 12'-6"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:10 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A303
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - WEST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
188 of 551

--- page 189 ---
E2 GROUND LEVEL
0"
E2 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
E2 LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
E2 ROOF
138' - 0"
E2 TOP OF PENTHOUSE
157' - 0"
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-15' - 0"
TERRACE
32ND AVE
33RD AVE
CLG
10'-0"
CLR
8'-6"
CLG
12'-0"
CLR
8'-6"
26.98' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
159'-0"
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
140'-0"
PARKING
STAIR
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
RETAIL
RAMP DOWN
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
B.O.H.
PARKING
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
B.O.H.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
PARKING
PARKING
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
PARKING
TERRACE
FFE 29.00'
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE SCREEN
PARKING
MECH EQUIP
STAIR BEYOND
FFE: 28.08
FFE: 28.80
FFE: 28.60
FFE: 26.95
8'-6" CLR
13%
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:56 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
189 of 551

--- page 190 ---
16 RACKS
6'-4"
19 RACKS
NOTES:
EACH RACK CAN ACCOMMODATE 
2 VERTICALLY STACKED BIKES
35 X 2 = 70 TOTAL BIKES
1'-3"
10"
6'-2"
1'-3"
1'-7"
1'-2"
1'-3"
7'-0" RACK
18'-9"
11'-6"
15'-1"
8'-1"
13'-1"
21'-11"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
E2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:10 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
E2 - ENLARGED PLANS
23.04025.00
2025
E2-A401
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
E2 - LONG TERM BIKE PARKING PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
190 of 551

--- page 191 ---
33'-4"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
17'-10"
EV
AMB
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
ADA
ADA
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
TO/FROM C3
STAIR
ELEV.
9'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
10'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
9'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
30'-0"
3'-0"
15'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
17'-10"
243'-9"
TRASH/RECYCLING
RM
LOADING/SERVICE DOCK
ACCOMMODATES BERTHS
FOR E1 OFFICE, AND FOR C1,
C2, C3, C4, C5, E2, E3 RETAIL
BERTH
10'X25'
TYP. OF 8
BERTH
10'X50'
TYP. OF 4
BERTH
10'X25'
TYP. OF 2
10'-0"
TYP.
25'-0"
TYP.
10'-0"
TYP.
50'-0"
TYP.
15'-2"
53'-11"
10'-11"
30'-0"
5'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
9'-0"
21'-0"
30'-0"
20'-1"
10'-0"
17'-6"
13'-1"
25'-9"
292'-7"
261'-3"
14'-2"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
3'-11"
ADA
VAN
5'-0"
TYP.
12'-0"
TYP.
B.O.H.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
SEE SHEET C3-A100
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET E1-A100 FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
C1-A100
C1
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
191 of 551

--- page 192 ---
RETAIL
RETAIL
88'-1"
92'-4"
19'-0"
67'-2"
47'-10"
40'-3"
50'-9"
72'-5"
89'-1"
41'-2"
RETAIL
RETAIL
SERV. ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
1
C2-A301
4
C1-A301
2
C1-A301
8
C1-A301
7
C1-A301
5
C1-A301
6
C1-A301
1
C1-A351
1
C1-A351
STAIR
15'-0"
28'-9"
44'-2"
12'-0"
31'-10"
145'-3"
12'-6"
34'-3"
81'-4"
8'-2"
8'-5"
17'-7"
3
C1-A301
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:54 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C1 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
C1-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
192 of 551

--- page 193 ---
67'-5"
18'-10"
82'-0"
88'-1"
44'-7"
43'-6"
73'-6"
33'-11"
145'-7"
96'-7"
1
C1-A351
1
C1-A351
1
C1-A301
4
C1-A301
2
C1-A301
3
C1-A301
8
C1-A301
7
C1-A301
5
C1-A301
6
C1-A301
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
ROOF
ROOF
ROOF
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
40'-0"
23'-0"
68'-7"
131'-7"
88'-1"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:54 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
C1-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
193 of 551

--- page 194 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:54 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C1 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
C1-A300
NTS
2
C1 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
C1 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
194 of 551

--- page 195 ---
1
19
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
32' - 0"
31.52' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
32'-0"
FFE 31.20'
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
1
19
22
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
32' - 0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 19'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
31.52' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
32'-0"
FFE 31.20'
9'-7"
9'-7"
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
1
19
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
19
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
4'-10"
1'-8"
1
19
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
15
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
28' - 0"
31.52' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
28'-0"
FFE 31.20'
1
1
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-6"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
28' - 0"
31.52' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
28'-0"
FFE 31.20'
1
22
2
5
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
19
22
1
5
2
18
15
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 10'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 12'-0"
HEIGHT: 14'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-0"
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:55 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
C1-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
C1 - WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C1 - EAST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C1 - NORTH (31ST AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
C1 - SOUTH (32ND AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
8
C1 CONNECTOR - WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
6
C1 CONNECTOR - EAST (EAST SAILER DR.)
ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
5
C1 CONNECTOR - NORTH (31ST AVE.)
ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
7
C1 CONNECTOR - SOUTH (32ND AVE.
ELEVATION)
4
8
6
2
7
3
1
5
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
195 of 551

--- page 196 ---
C1 GROUND LEVEL
0"
C1 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
C1 ROOF
32' - 0"
BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-15' - 0"
RETAIL
PARKING
RETAIL
31ST AVE
32ND AVE
RETAIL
FFE 31.20'
31.52' LOWEST 
EXISTING GRADE 
AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
31'-9"
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
17'-9"
3" / 12"
3" / 12"
3" / 12"
3" / 12"
9'-6"
FFE: 30.20
FFE: 30.70
FFE: 31.20
CLR
8'-6"
CLR
10'-0"
CLR
10'-0"
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:55 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C1 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
C1-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C1 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
196 of 551

--- page 197 ---
2
C2-A301
1
C2-A301
3
C2-A301
4
C2-A301
1
C2-A351
1
C2-A351
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
RETAIL
29'-9"
15'-0"
40'-0"
15'-0"
11'-9"
41'-0"
29'-0"
41'-0"
11'-6"
15'-0"
40'-0"
15'-0"
29'-9"
11'-9"
41'-0"
29'-0"
41'-0"
11'-6"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:56 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C2 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
C2-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
197 of 551

--- page 198 ---
ROOF
ROOF
1
C2-A351
1
C2-A351
2
C2-A301
1
C2-A301
3
C2-A301
4
C2-A301
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
134'-3"
134'-3"
29'-9"
70'-1"
70'-1"
29'-9"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:56 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
C2-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
198 of 551

--- page 199 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:56 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C2 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
C2-A300
NTS
2
C2 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
C2 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
199 of 551

--- page 200 ---
22
18
22
18
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 15'-6"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
31' - 0"
34.40' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
FFE 30.50'
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
31'-0"
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
15'-0"
15'-0"
15'-0"
15'-0"
22
18
22
18
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 15'-6"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
31' - 0"
34.40' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
FFE 30.50'
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
31'-0"
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
15'-0"
15'-0"
15'-0"
15'-0"
22
18
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
ROOF LEVEL
31' - 0"
34.40' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
FFE 30.50'
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
31'-0"
1'-8"
1'-8"
22
18
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 3'-0"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
31' - 0"
34.40' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
FFE 30.50'
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
31'-0"
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
1'-8"
1'-8"
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:57 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
C2-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
C2 - WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C2 - EAST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C2 - NORTH (32ND AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
C2 - SOUTH (33RD AVE.) ELEVATION
4
2
3
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
3":1'-0"
SLOPE, TYP.
200 of 551

--- page 201 ---
C2 GROUND LEVEL
0"
C2 TOP OF ROOF
31' - 2"
32ND AVE
33RD AVE
RETAIL
RETAIL
FFE 30.50
34.40' LOWEST 
EXISTING GRADE AT 
BUILDING PERIMETER
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
31'-2"
15'-0"
3" / 12"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
24'-0"
FFE: 30.00
FFE: 30.50
CLR
10'-0"
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:57 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C2 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
C2-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C2 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
201 of 551

--- page 202 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
UP
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY / BOH
STAIR
ELEV
24'-0"
24'-0"
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
GARAGE
STAIR
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
ELEV
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
43'-5"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-8"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
16'-0"
20'-0"
18'-8"
30'-8"
16'-8"
CL
7'-11"
10'-10"
15'-8"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
5'-11"
208'-9"
54'-4"
15'-8"
291'-11"
24'-1"
CL
CL
30'-0"
17'-5"
CL
24'-8"
27'-6"
20'-6"
24'-0"
2
C3-A351
______
10.0%
19.6%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A100
C3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
276
6
2
49*
2
1
2
0
26
356
LEVEL 3
65
0
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
74
LEVEL 2
56
2
1
10
0
0
0
0
0
69
GROUND
30
1
0
20*
1
1
1
0
17
63
BASEMENT B1
125
3
1
10
1
0
1
0
9
150
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C3
202 of 551

--- page 203 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
24'-0"
DN
UP
ELEC /
TRANSFORMERS
GARAGE
STAIR
ELEV
TRASH
B3.0
B4.0
TRASH TERM
STAIR
32ND AVE
31ST AVE
EDISON LANE
HILLSDALE CENTER
24'-0"
RETAIL
LOBBY/ LEASING/
MAIL & PARCEL
ELEV
ELEV
BIKE STORAGE
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
UTILITY/BOH
C1.2
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
B1.2
A1.1
B1.2
60'-0"
250'-10"
18'-2"
28'-11"
71'-9"
35'-0"
233'-11"
69'-8"
64'-0"
23'-2"
29'-0"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
35'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
43'-1"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
37'-0"
27'-0"
20'-0"
20'-0"
205'-9"
122'-8"
CL
CL
CL
CL
52'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-8"
70'-3"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
26'-0"
173'-2"
53'-8"
16'-2"
29'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-6"
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
24'-0"
2
C3-A351
______
9.0%
18.0%
7.9%
19.6%
BIKE STORAGE
______
2
C3-A451
______
1
C3-A451
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A101
C3 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
276
6
2
49*
2
1
2
0
26
356
LEVEL 3
65
0
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
74
LEVEL 2
56
2
1
10
0
0
0
0
0
69
GROUND
30
1
0
20*
1
1
1
0
17
63
BASEMENT B1
125
3
1
10
1
0
1
0
9
150
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C3
203 of 551

--- page 204 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
DN
UP
BIKE
STORAGE
GARAGE
STAIR
ELEV
B3.0
B4.0
STAIR
TRASH
24'-0"
27'-0"
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
TENANT
STORAGE
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
JR1.1
A1.1
A1.1
JR1.0
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
B1.2
A1.1
A1.1
B1.2
A1.1
B1.2
C1.2
32'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
20'-2"
36'-0"
20'-2"
36'-3"
B1.0
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
80'-5"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
23'-5"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
35'-0"
233'-11"
8'-0"
69'-8"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
43'-1"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
52'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-8"
69'-11"
CL
39'-0"
29'-0"
29'-0"
20'-0"
15'-8"
283'-5"
32'-8"
9'-10"
241'-0"
18'-2"
24'-0"
2
C3-A351
______
20'-0"
9.0%
18.0%
3.1%
18.0%
______
3
C3-A451
OPEN TO BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A102
C3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
276
6
2
49*
2
1
2
0
26
356
LEVEL 3
65
0
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
74
LEVEL 2
56
2
1
10
0
0
0
0
0
69
GROUND
30
1
0
20*
1
1
1
0
17
63
BASEMENT B1
125
3
1
10
1
0
1
0
9
150
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C3
204 of 551

--- page 205 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
DN
STORAGE
TENANT
STORAGE
GARAGE
UTILITY
STAIR
ELEV
B3.0
B4.0
A1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
JR1.0
B1.0
STAIR
TRASH
24'-0"
27'-0"
A1.2
JR1.0
ELEV
ELEV
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
JR1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
C1.1
24'-0"
27'-0"
CL
CL
32'-5"
24'-0"
24'-2"
23'-10"
24'-2"
20'-0"
36'-0"
20'-2"
35'-11"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
38'-3"
20'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
37'-0"
8'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
52'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-8"
69'-8"
CL
39'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
37'-7"
24'-0"
27'-9"
39'-9"
31'-0"
20'-2"
24'-0"
26'-1"
31'-0"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
45'-2"
76'-1"
45'-2"
29'-4"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
24'-0"
2
C3-A351
______
20'-0"
3.1%
18.0%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A103
C3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
TOTAL
276
6
2
49*
2
1
2
0
26
356
LEVEL 3
65
0
0
9
0
0
0
0
0
74
LEVEL 2
56
2
1
10
0
0
0
0
0
69
GROUND
30
1
0
20*
1
1
1
0
17
63
BASEMENT B1
125
3
1
10
1
0
1
0
9
150
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C3
205 of 551

--- page 206 ---
B3.0
B4.0
A1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
A4.0
A5.0
A5.0
B1.1
A1.0
B1.0
S2.0
A4.0
COURTYARD
LOUNGE
STAIR
ELEV
UTILITY
JR1.0
B1.0
FITNESS
STAIR
TRASH
A1.2
JR1.0
ELEV
ELEV
A1.0
B6.0
A5.0
A4.1
A1.0
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
______
C3-A303
3
______
C3-A303
1
______
C3-A303
4
______
C3-A303
2
JR1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
C1.1
CL
CL
32'-5"
24'-0"
24'-2"
23'-10"
24'-2"
20'-0"
36'-0"
20'-2"
35'-11"
CL
CL
24'-0"
23'-10"
24'-0"
24'-2"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
38'-3"
20'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
37'-0"
8'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
37'-7"
24'-0"
27'-9"
39'-9"
31'-0"
20'-2"
24'-0"
26'-1"
31'-0"
25'-0"
53'-2"
28'-0"
30'-9"
31'-0"
9'-2"
91'-3"
31'-0"
28'-9"
18'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
34'-8"
28'-7"
28'-7"
12'-0"
24'-0"
31'-7"
28'-7"
24'-0"
45'-0"
31'-2"
28'-9"
31'-0"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
2
C3-A351
______
POOL
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A104
C3 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
206 of 551

--- page 207 ---
STAIR
ELEV
B3.0
B4.0
A1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
A4.0
A4.0
A5.0
A5.0
B1.1
A1.0
B1.0
S2.0
A4.0
JR1.0
B1.0
STAIR
UTILITY
TRASH
A1.2
JR1.0
ELEV
ELEV
S3.0
A1.0
B6.0
B1.0
A5.0
A4.1
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
______
C3-A303
3
______
C3-A303
1
______
C3-A303
4
______
C3-A303
2
JR1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
C1.1
CL
CL
32'-5"
24'-0"
24'-2"
23'-10"
24'-2"
20'-0"
36'-0"
20'-2"
35'-11"
CL
CL
24'-0"
23'-10"
24'-0"
24'-2"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
38'-3"
20'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
37'-0"
8'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
37'-7"
24'-0"
27'-9"
39'-9"
31'-0"
20'-2"
24'-0"
26'-1"
31'-0"
24'-7"
28'-0"
30'-9"
CL
31'-3"
9'-2"
65'-0"
26'-5"
31'-0"
28'-9"
18'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
34'-8"
28'-7"
28'-7"
31'-7"
CL
28'-7"
23'-10"
45'-2"
31'-2"
28'-9"
36'-0"
31'-0"
28'-7"
31'-0"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
2
C3-A351
______
OPEN TO BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A105
C3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
207 of 551

--- page 208 ---
STAIR
ELEV
B3.0
B4.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
A4.0
A1.0
A4.0
A5.0
A5.0
B1.1
A1.0
B1.0
S2.0
A4.0
B5.0
A1.0
B6.0
JR1.0
S2.0
B1.0
JR1.0
B1.0
STAIR
UTILITY
TRASH
A1.2
JR1.0
A5.0
B1.0
A4.1
ELEV
ELEV
S3.0
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
______
C3-A303
3
______
C3-A303
1
______
C3-A303
4
______
C3-A303
2
JR1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
C1.1
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
CL
CL
32'-5"
24'-0"
24'-2"
23'-10"
24'-2"
20'-0"
36'-0"
20'-2"
35'-11"
15'-3"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
38'-3"
20'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
37'-0"
8'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
37'-7"
24'-0"
27'-9"
39'-9"
31'-0"
20'-2"
24'-0"
26'-1"
31'-0"
24'-0"
26'-8"
30'-9"
26'-5"
31'-0"
28'-9"
18'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
34'-8"
28'-7"
28'-7"
31'-7"
CL
28'-7"
23'-10"
45'-2"
31'-2"
20'-2"
18'-0"
36'-0"
28'-9"
36'-0"
CL
31'-11"
28'-7"
31'-0"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
23'-5"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A106
C3 - LEVEL 6-7 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 6-7 PLAN
208 of 551

--- page 209 ---
SKY LOUNGE
TERRACE
STAIR
ELEV
B3.0
B4.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
A4.0
A1.0
A4.0
A5.0
A5.0
B1.1
A1.0
B1.0
S2.0
A4.0
B5.0
A1.0
B6.0
JR1.0
S2.0
B1.0
JR1.0
B1.0
STAIR
UTILITY
TRASH
JR1.0
B1.0
A4.1
A5.0
ELEV
ELEV
S3.0
A1.2
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
______
C3-A303
3
______
C3-A303
1
______
C3-A303
4
______
C3-A303
2
JR1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
C1.1
CL
24'-0"
24'-2"
20'-0"
36'-0"
20'-2"
35'-11"
CL
CL
24'-0"
23'-10"
24'-0"
24'-2"
36'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
38'-3"
20'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
31'-0"
41'-9"
31'-0"
45'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
8'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
37'-7"
24'-0"
27'-9"
39'-9"
31'-0"
20'-2"
24'-0"
26'-1"
31'-0"
CL
23'-10"
26'-9"
30'-9"
26'-5"
31'-0"
28'-9"
18'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
34'-8"
28'-7"
28'-7"
31'-7"
CL
28'-7"
23'-10"
45'-2"
31'-2"
20'-2"
18'-0"
36'-0"
28'-9"
36'-0"
CL
31'-11"
28'-7"
CL
31'-3"
79'-9"
16'-10"
19'-0"
56'-0"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
82'-5"
11'-4"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A107
C3 - LEVEL 8 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - LEVEL 8 PLAN
209 of 551

--- page 210 ---
______
C3-A301
1
______
C3-A302
1
______
C3-A301
2
______
C3-A302
2
1
C3-A351
______
______
C3-A303
3
______
C3-A303
1
______
C3-A303
4
______
C3-A303
2
102'-0"
5'-0"
61'-6"
7'-6"
8'-3"
10'-10"
15'-8"
283'-6"
32'-6"
331'-8"
17'-0"
280'-2"
34'-6"
269'-0"
7'-10"
245'-0"
16'-2"
9'-4"
26'-9"
21'-0"
8'-3"
27'-3"
9'-4"
124'-6"
34'-6"
61'-6"
52'-6"
83'-9"
84'-0"
25'-6"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A108
C3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
210 of 551

--- page 211 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A300
C3 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
1" = 1'-0"
1
C3 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
2
C3 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
211 of 551

--- page 212 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.38
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.88
1'-0"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
79'-11 7/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
91'-3 1/4"
C1
01
B1
26
01
24
28
08
08
A1
25
22
24
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.38
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.88
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.52
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.57
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
80'-0"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
91'-3"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
91'-1"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
79'-10"
C1
01
B1
26
01
25
28
18
08
08
01
A1
24
01
22
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A301
C3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 31ST AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C3 HILLSDALE CENTER ELEVATION
212 of 551

--- page 213 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.52
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.57
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
79'-10 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
91'-1"
28
25
24
18
01
01
26
08
B1
C1
22
01
25
24
01
26
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
32.10
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.38
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.88
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
92'-5"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
81'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
91'-3"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
80'-0"
C1
01
B1
24
25
28
26
08
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A302
C3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 32ND AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C3 INNER ALLEY ELEVATION
213 of 551

--- page 214 ---
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
B1
25
26
24
C1
01
28
22
18
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
B1
25
26
24
C1
01
28
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
B1
25
26
24
C1
01
28
22
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
B1
25
26
24
C1
01
28
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A303
C3 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
COURTYARD ELEVATION - SOUTH
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
COURTYARD ELEVATION - NORTH
214 of 551

--- page 215 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
82' - 0"
ROOF LEVEL
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-12' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
92' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
71' - 9"
LEVEL 8
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
JR1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.1
A1.1
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
LOUNGE
JR1.0
JR1.0
JR1.0
JR1.0
JR1.0
JR1.1
BIKE STORAGE
COURTYARD
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
12'-0"
11'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
19'-4"
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
32.10
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.38
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.88
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
91'-7"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
80'-4"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
92'-10"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
81'-7"
FFE = 34.88
FFE = 34.88
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-12' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
10.0%
19.6%
9.0%
18.0%
9.0%
18.0%
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
12'-0"
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
TENANT
STORAGE
UTILITY
LOUNGE
FITNESS
COURTYARD
11'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-1"
S3.0
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A351
C3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C3 - RAMP SECTION
215 of 551

--- page 216 ---
1'-10"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
3'-8"
1'-10"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
3'-8"
4'-6"
6'-4"
6'-4"
5'-5"
6'-4"
38'-1"
28'-11"
48 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
6'-4"
7'-2"
7'-9"
5' - 10"
64 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
1'-1"
3'-10"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
1'-10"
6'-4"
6'-4"
6'-4"
13'-0"
6'-8"
NOTE: 320 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
68 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
44 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C3-A451
C3 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM 1 - GROUND FLOOR
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM - LEVEL 2
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM 2 - GROUND FLOOR
216 of 551

--- page 217 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
20'-0"
UP
STAIR
1
C4-A351
______
LOADING/MOVE-IN
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
STAIR
GARAGE
38'-6"
296'-6"
335'-0"
51'-2"
160'-4"
38'-6"
296'-6"
335'-0"
18'-0"
20'-0"
CL
CL
30'-0"
36'-0"
CL
16'-8"
CL
16'-8"
31'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
15'-8"
32'-5"
28'-6"
28'-6"
19'-6"
18'-0"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
20'-6"
19'-10"
160'-4"
130'-4"
7'-0"
18'-8"
20'-0"
27'-8"
24'-0"
24'-0"
21'-10"
18'-0"
21'-10"
18'-11"
2
C4-A351
______
9.0%
14.1%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A100
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
138
4*
1*
24
1
1
1
0
6
174
GROUND
0
1*
1*
0
0
0
0
0
6
6
BASEMENT B1
66
0
0
12
1
1
1
0
0
81
BASEMENT B2
72
3
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
87
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C4
217 of 551

--- page 218 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
C4-A302
1
20'-0"
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
LOADING/MOVE-IN
STAIR
1
C4-A351
______
UP
DN
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
STAIR
38'-6"
296'-6"
335'-0"
51'-2"
160'-4"
38'-6"
296'-6"
335'-0"
18'-0"
20'-0"
20'-0"
CL
CL
CL
30'-0"
36'-0"
CL
16'-8"
CL
CL
16'-8"
31'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
15'-8"
32'-5"
28'-6"
28'-6"
19'-6"
18'-0"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
20'-6"
19'-10"
160'-4"
130'-4"
7'-0"
18'-8"
27'-8"
24'-0"
24'-0"
21'-10"
18'-0"
21'-10"
18'-11"
24'-0"
2
C4-A351
______
20'-0"
9.0%
14.1%
9.0%
14.1%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A101
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
138
4*
1*
24
1
1
1
0
6
174
GROUND
0
1*
1*
0
0
0
0
0
6
6
BASEMENT B1
66
0
0
12
1
1
1
0
0
81
BASEMENT B2
72
3
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
87
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C4
218 of 551

--- page 219 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
RETAIL A
LOBBY/LEASING/MAIL
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
GARAGE
UTILITY
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
UTILITY/BOH
36'-7"
54'-2"
32ND AVE
W SAILER DR
GREEN WAY
HILLSDALE SQUARE
RETAIL B
OFF-STREET 
LOADING
1
C4-A351
______
LOBBY
DN
TRASH TERM
BIKE STORAGE
STAIR
ELEV
38'-6"
264'-6"
32'-0"
335'-0"
138'-0"
35'-0"
173'-0"
138'-0"
35'-0"
38'-6"
264'-6"
32'-0"
39'-8"
55'-9"
47'-6"
83'-4"
40'-9"
47'-6"
20'-3"
61'-0"
121'-5"
39'-0"
54'-0"
29'-9"
20'-0"
21'-0"
31'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
48'-1"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-4"
28'-9"
10'-3"
92'-3"
CL
CL
CL
11'-8"
30'-0"
37'-0"
59'-4"
BIKE STORAGE
58'-8"
11'-9"
37'-6"
18'-2"
34'-0"
54'-2"
31'-1"
32'-4"
17'-4"
32'-0"
20'-0"
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
24'-0"
2
C4-A351
______
20'-0"
9.0%
14.1%
______
1
C4-A451
______
2
C4-A451
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A102
C4 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
138
4*
1*
24
1
1
1
0
6
174
GROUND
0
1*
1*
0
0
0
0
0
6
6
BASEMENT B1
66
0
0
12
1
1
1
0
0
81
BASEMENT B2
72
3
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
87
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING C4
219 of 551

--- page 220 ---
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
ELEV
ELEV
B4.0
S2.0
A1.0
S1.0
B2.1
C1.0
A2.0
S1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
A3.0
C2.0
FITNESS
LOUNGE
119'-9"
38'-5"
32'-1"
39'-0"
45'-7"
40'-1"
COURTYARD
1
C4-A351
______
______
C4-A303
1
______
C4-A303
2
STAIR
A1.1
S3.0
A1.0
A1.0
TRASH
ELEV
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
55'-7"
STAIR
38'-6"
264'-6"
32'-0"
335'-0"
173'-0"
173'-0"
38'-6"
296'-6"
161'-0"
126'-0"
35'-0"
32'-1"
9'-4"
27'-1"
38'-5"
38'-0"
36'-8"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-1"
20'-9"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
38'-2"
29'-4"
36'-0"
14'-11"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
24'-0"
12'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
17'-0"
32'-1"
16'-0"
8'-2"
33'-8"
31'-0"
31'-0"
6'-0"
31'-0"
37'-4"
2
C4-A351
______
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A103
C4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
220 of 551

--- page 221 ---
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
B4.0
S2.0
A1.0
S1.0
B2.1
C1.0
A2.0
S1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
A3.0
C2.0
ELEV
ELEV
1
C4-A351
______
______
C4-A303
1
______
C4-A303
2
A1.1
S3.0
B1.0
A1.0
TRASH
ELEV
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
55'-7"
STAIR
STAIR
119'-9"
38'-5"
32'-1"
39'-0"
45'-7"
40'-1"
37'-4"
55'-7"
335'-0"
161'-0"
161'-0"
38'-6"
296'-6"
161'-0"
126'-0"
35'-0"
32'-1"
9'-4"
26'-9"
38'-5"
38'-0"
36'-8"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-1"
20'-9"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
38'-2"
29'-4"
36'-0"
14'-11"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
17'-0"
32'-1"
16'-0"
8'-2"
33'-8"
31'-0"
31'-0"
6'-0"
31'-0"
38'-6"
266'-6"
30'-0"
45'-7"
36'-0"
OPEN TO BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A104
C4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
221 of 551

--- page 222 ---
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
S2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
A3.0
C2.0
B3.0
55'-7"
ELEV
ELEV
A5.0
A4.0
1
C4-A351
______
______
C4-A303
1
______
C4-A303
2
A1.1
S3.0
B1.0
A1.0
TRASH
ELEV
STAIR
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B4.0
B2.1
C1.0
S1.0
STAIR
55'-7"
119'-9"
38'-5"
32'-1"
34'-6"
41'-2"
55'-7"
335'-0"
161'-0"
38'-6"
296'-6"
161'-0"
126'-0"
35'-0"
32'-1"
9'-4"
26'-9"
38'-5"
38'-0"
36'-8"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-1"
20'-9"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
38'-2"
29'-4"
36'-0"
14'-11"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
17'-0"
32'-1"
16'-0"
8'-2"
33'-8"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
38'-6"
266'-6"
30'-0"
27'-11"
36'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A105
C4 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
222 of 551

--- page 223 ---
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
1
C4-A351
______
S2.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
S1.0
B1.0
A1.0
B2.0
A1.0
A3.0
TERRACE
SKY LOUNGE
10'-0"
8'-0"
ELEV
ELEV
A5.0
A4.0
______
C4-A303
1
______
C4-A303
2
STAIR
A1.1
S3.0
TRASH
ELEV
A1.0
B1.0
B4.0
B2.1
C1.0
A1.0
55'-7"
STAIR
55'-7"
55'-7"
119'-9"
CL
34'-8"
55'-7"
335'-0"
161'-0"
38'-6"
296'-6"
161'-0"
126'-0"
35'-0"
32'-1"
9'-4"
26'-9"
38'-5"
38'-0"
36'-8"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-1"
20'-9"
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
38'-2"
29'-4"
36'-0"
14'-11"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
17'-0"
32'-1"
16'-0"
8'-2"
33'-8"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
38'-6"
266'-6"
30'-0"
27'-11"
36'-0"
44'-10"
13'-1"
70'-5"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A106
C4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
223 of 551

--- page 224 ---
______
C4-A301
2
______
C4-A302
1
______
C4-A302
2
______
C4-A301
1
1
C4-A351
______
______
C4-A303
1
______
C4-A303
2
55'-7"
55'-7"
55'-7"
55'-7"
335'-0"
161'-0"
38'-6"
261'-0"
35'-6"
335'-0"
161'-0"
126'-0"
35'-0"
18'-6"
9'-4"
8'-9"
11'-0"
11'-11"
10'-0"
26'-9"
9'-4"
22'-0"
9'-0"
34'-6"
7'-6"
34'-6"
43'-6"
43'-6"
39'-5"
61'-6"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
STAIR
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
RWL
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A107
C4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
224 of 551

--- page 225 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A300
C4 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
1" = 1'-0"
2
C4 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
1
C4 SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
225 of 551

--- page 226 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
86' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.50
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.06
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-2"
01
B1
26
01
25
28
09
24
C1
A1
22
26
25
01
01
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
86' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.50
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.06
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.97
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.54
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-8 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8 1/4"
C1
01
B1
26
01
25
28
09
09
24
26
25
22
22
01
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A301
C4 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 32ND AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C4 HILLSDALE SQUARE ELEVATION
226 of 551

--- page 227 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
86' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.97
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.54
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-8"
01
B1
26
01
18
28
09
24
C1
A1
25
25
22
22
09
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
86' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.50
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.06
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.97
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.54
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-8 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8 1/4"
C1
01
B1
26
01
26
28
08
24
24
18
01
09
01
24
24
22
22
25
22
25
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A302
C4 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 GREENWAY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C4 W SAILER DR ELEVATION
227 of 551

--- page 228 ---
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
01
B1
C1
18
26
08
24
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
B1
26
C1
25
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A303
C4 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
228 of 551

--- page 229 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
25' - 3"
LEVEL 3
35' - 6"
LEVEL 4
45' - 9"
LEVEL 5
56' - 0"
LEVEL 6
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-11' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
86' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
66' - 3"
LEVEL 7
76' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
BASEMENT LEVEL 2
-22' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
GARAGE
GARAGE
LOBBY/LEASING/MAIL
C2.0
C2.0
C2.0
C2.0
C2.0
TERRACE
SKY LOUNGE
TERRACE
ELEV
LOBBY/LEASING/MAIL
LOUNGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
UTILITY
STAIR
S2.0
S2.0
S2.0
S2.0
S2.0
S2.0
COURTYARD
B3.0
B3.0
B3.0
SKY LOUNGE
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
10'-0"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
15'-0"
11'-0"
11'-0"
10'-3"
14'-0"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
10'-0"
10'-0"
19'-4"
9'-1"
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BIKE STORAGE
ELEV LOBBY
ELEV LOBBY
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.50
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.06
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.97
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.54
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-2"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-8 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8 1/4"
FFE = 31.06
FFE = 31.06
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
15' - 0"
LEVEL 2
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-11' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
BASEMENT LEVEL 2
-22' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
15'-0"
11'-0"
11'-0"
14.1%
14.1%
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
A2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A351
C4 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C4 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C4 - RAMP SECTION
229 of 551

--- page 230 ---
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
0'-0"
2'-9"
5'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
7'-7"
6'-4"
5'-5"
36 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
28 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
6'-4"
6'-11"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-6"
6'-4"
5'-8"
1'-3"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
5'-2"
6'-4"
5'-6"
6'-4"
NOTE: 156 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
32 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
32 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
28 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
C4-A451
C4 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLANS - BIKE ROOM 1
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED PLANS - BIKE ROOM 2
230 of 551

--- page 231 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
UTILITIES
STORAGE
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
17'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
18'-0"
27'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
Isometric Looking NE
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - BASEMENT LEVEL PLAN
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
C5
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - BASEMENT LEVEL
PLAN
C5-A100
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
231 of 551

--- page 232 ---
CANOPY ABOVE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
PEDESTRIAN
CORRIDOR
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
ADA
VAN
ADA
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.0% RAMP UP
12.0% RAMP UP
RETAIL
RETAIL
6.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
12.0% RAMP UP
6.0% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
6.0% TRANSITION UP
ENTRY
EXIT
ENTRY
EXIT
ENTRY
EXIT
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS
FROM STREET
18'-0"
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
12'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EAST SAILER DR
WEST SAILER DR
HILLSDALE DR
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
4'-0"
12'-0"
TYP.
12'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
10'-0"
TYP.
EV
VAN ADA
EV
VAN ADA
EV
ADA
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
AMB
EV
EV
4'-0"
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
STAIR
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
BLDG OVERHANG
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
C5-A101
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
RETAIL, GROCER
232 of 551

--- page 233 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
ADA
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
6.0% RAMP DOWN
6.0% RAMP DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-6"
9'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
PEDESTRIAN
CORRIDOR
4'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
CANOPY ABOVE
OPEN TO BELOW
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
C5-A102
BLDG OVERHANG
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
233 of 551

--- page 234 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-9"
16'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
16'-6"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
9'-0"
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
17'-0"
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
TYP.
TYP.
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
C5-A103
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
234 of 551

--- page 235 ---
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-9"
16'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
16'-6"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
17'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
9'-0"
TYP.
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
EV
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
C5-A104
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
235 of 551

--- page 236 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-9"
16'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
16'-6"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
17'-0"
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
9'-0"
TYP.
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
EV
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 5 PLAN
C5-A105
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
236 of 551

--- page 237 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP UP
9.0% TRANSITION UP
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-9"
16'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
16'-6"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
9'-0"
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
17'-0"
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
9'-0"
TYP.
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 6 PLAN
C5-A106
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
237 of 551

--- page 238 ---
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
ADA
EV
EV
EV
EV
6.4% RAMP DOWN
6.4% RAMP DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
9.0% TRANSITION DOWN
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
5'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-9"
16'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
16'-6"
TYP.
18'-9"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
27'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
9'-0"
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
18'-9"X9'
60 DEG
STALL,
TYP.
ONE-WAY
REVERSIBLE
17'-0"
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ADA
EV
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
262'-0"
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
60'-0"
232'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1
1
C5-A351
C5-A351
2
2
C5-A351
C5-A351
12'-0"
35'-0"
28'-9"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
1
C5-A301
2
C5-A301
1
C5-A302
2
C5-A302
EV
24"X24" COLUMN, TYP.
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Level 5
Level 7
EL. +67
EL. +56
EL. +45
EL. +34
EL. +23
EL. +12
EL. +00
Level 6
Ground
EL. -11
Basement
Isometric Looking NE
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
C5-A107
LEGEND
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
1. REQUIRED ADA STALLS FOR PARKING FACILITIES BETWEEN 500- 1,000 STALLS
IS 2 PERCENT OF TOTAL = 18
SHEET NOTES
2. OF THE TOTAL ADA STALLS, 1 IN EVERY 6 SHALL BE VAN ACCESSIBLE = 3
3. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
4. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
5. EV STALL COUNT MEETS THE 20 PERCENT REQUIREMENT = 220
5. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
238 of 551

--- page 239 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C5
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:58 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C5 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
C5-A300
NTS
2
C5 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
C5 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
239 of 551

--- page 240 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
29
22
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-6"
HEIGHT: VARIES
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-6"
HEIGHT: 22'-0"
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 0"
LEVEL 2
12' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
44' - 0"
LEVEL 5
55' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
89' - 0"
FFE 28.60'
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
80'-0"
12'-0"
68'-0"
LEVEL 7
77' - 0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 10'-0"
HEIGHT: 22'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6"
HEIGHT: 22'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-0"
HEIGHT: 22'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-6"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 10'-0"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
29
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-6"
HEIGHT: VARIES
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 0"
LEVEL 2
12' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
44' - 0"
LEVEL 5
55' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
89' - 0"
FFE 28.60'
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
80'-0"
12'-0"
68'-0"
LEVEL 7
77' - 0"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C5
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:54:59 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C5 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
C5-A301
2
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - NORTH (33RD AVE.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C5 - EAST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
240 of 551

--- page 241 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
29
22
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 0"
LEVEL 2
12' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
44' - 0"
LEVEL 5
55' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
89' - 0"
FFE 28.60'
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
80'-0"
12'-0"
68'-0"
LEVEL 7
77' - 0"
29
GROUND LEVEL
0"
LEVEL 6
66' - 0"
LEVEL 2
12' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
44' - 0"
LEVEL 5
55' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
89' - 0"
FFE 28.60'
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
80'-0"
12'-0"
68'-0"
LEVEL 7
77' - 0"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
C5
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:00 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
C5 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
C5-A302
2
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - SOUTH (HILLSDALE BLVD.) ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C5 - WEST (WEST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
241 of 551

--- page 242 ---
ENTRY/EXIT
UTILITIES
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
BASEMENT
-11'-0"
GROUND
00'-0" FFE 28.60'
LEVEL 2
12'-0"
LEVEL 3
23'-0"
LEVEL 4
34'-0"
LEVEL 5
45'-0"
LEVEL 6
56'-0"
LEVEL 7
67'-0"
18'-0"
30'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
30'-0"
18'-0"
27'-0"
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
STAIR/ELEV. CORE
HILLSDALE DR
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
D
E
60'-0"
C
B
A
60'-0"
48'-0"
60'-0"
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
PEDESTIAN
CORRIDOR
PEDESTIAN
CORRIDOR
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP UP
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
STAIR/ELEV.
CORE
OPEN SPACE
RETAIL
W SAILER DR
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
79'-0"
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING
GRADE AT BUILDING
PERIMETER
BASEMENT
-11'-0"
GROUND
00'-0" FFE 28.60'
LEVEL 2
12'-0"
LEVEL 3
23'-0"
LEVEL 4
34'-0"
LEVEL 5
45'-0"
LEVEL 6
56'-0"
LEVEL 7
67'-0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
79'-0"
78'-0"
12'-0"
90'-0"
30.17' LOWEST EXISTING
GRADE AT BUILDING
PERIMETER
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
78'-0"
12'-0"
90'-0"
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
32.50' EXISTING
GRADE
32.94' EXISTING
GRADE
9'-0"
8'-0"
CLR
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
9'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
8'-0"
CLR
ENTRY/EXIT
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
23.04025.00
NORTH
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
C5 - BUILDING SECTION 1
 1/16" = 1'-0"
2
C5 - BUILDING SECTION 2
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
LEGEND
C5
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
C5 - BUILDING SECTION
C5-A351
RETAIL, GROCER
242 of 551

--- page 243 ---
UTILITIES
6.5% RAMP UP
6.1% RAMP UP
-28.55'
-26.35'
-32.00'
-32.00'
5.8% RAMP UP
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
6'-11"
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
5.8% RAMP UP
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
ADA
-32.00'
STAIR
ELEV.
SERV.
ELEV.
STAIR
9'-0"
TYP.
5'-2"
24'-10"
5'-2"
30'-0"
2'-6"
27'-6"
10'-2"
19'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
13'-6"
16'-6"
14'-10"
15'-2"
14'-10"
15'-2"
22'-2"
17'-0"
314'-4"
30'-0"
15'-9"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
36'-2"
0'-0"
231'-11"
4'-9"
30'-5"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET S2-A100A FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
S1
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
S1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2
PLAN
S1-A100A
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
243 of 551

--- page 244 ---
5'-2"
24'-10"
5'-2"
30'-0"
2'-6"
27'-6"
10'-2"
19'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
13'-6"
16'-6"
14'-10"
15'-2"
14'-10"
15'-2"
22'-2"
17'-0"
314'-4"
30'-0"
15'-9"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
36'-2"
STAIR
ELEV.
-12.55'
-10.35'
-16.00'
12.9% RAMP UP
8.0% TRANSITION UP
6.1% RAMP UP
5.8% RAMP UP
6.5% RAMP DOWN
-16.00'
5.8% RAMP UP
OWN
9.0% TRANSITION UP
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
6'-11"
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
-16.00'
ADA
18'-0"
TYP.
231'-11"
SERV.
ELEV.
STAIR
4'-9"
30'-5"
9'-0"
TYP.
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET S2-A100B FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
S1
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
S1 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
S1-A100B
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
244 of 551

--- page 245 ---
PARKING
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
ELEV.
SERV. ELEV.
B.O.H.
RETAIL
STAIR
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
BIKE PARKING
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
STAIR
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
VESTIBULE
B.O.H.
PARKING
STAIR
EAST SAILER DR
EL CAMINO REAL
HILLSDALE BLVD
LAUREL CREEK
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
B.O.H.
RAMP DOWN
RAMP UP
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
21'-1"
125'-2"
80'-0"
16'-1"
90'-6"
28'-4"
332'-10"
27'-2"
93'-3"
83'-7"
16'-0"
11'-7"
220'-0"
35'-11"
123'-0"
24'-1"
80'-0"
28'-10"
37'-8"
7'-2"
33'-0"
46'-6"
333'-8"
29'-6"
3'-4"
53'-1"
84'-6"
65'-3"
13'-10"
35'-11"
220'-0"
11'-7"
B.O.H.
1
S1-A401
RAMP UP
BERTH 10'x25', 
TYP. OF 3
ADA 
VAN
ADA
ADA
ADA
6%
6%
8%
12.9%
8%
18'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
18'x9' STALL, 
TYP
BERTH 
10'x25',
TYP. OF 4
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
24'-0"
24'-5"
32'-6"
25'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-2"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
33'-10"
2'-0"
2'-4"
43'-6"
31'-4"
35'-0"
25'-0"
30'-1"
11'-10"
8'-4"
19'-9"
48'-11"
49'-11"
7'-6"
23'-2"
6'-10"
32'-6"
36'-11"
4'-5" 4'-11"
20'-6"
49'-9"
12'-3"
20'-3"
8'-9"
10'-0"
8'-9"
11'-4"
7'-5"
22'-7"
8'-4"
17'-6"
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING AREA
30" x 30" COLUMN, 
TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:57 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
287
5
1
82
2
1
3
0
0
381
LEVEL 2.5
29
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
29
LEVEL 2
26
0
0
21
2
1
3
0
0
53
GROUND
27
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
31
BASEMENT B1
103
1
0
31
0
0
0
0
0
135
BASEMENT B2
102
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
133
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
245 of 551

--- page 246 ---
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
PARKING
ELEV.
STAIR
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
21'-1"
125'-2"
80'-0"
16'-1"
90'-6"
28'-4"
332'-10"
27'-2"
93'-3"
83'-7"
16'-0"
11'-7"
220'-0"
35'-11"
123'-0"
24'-1"
80'-0"
16'-2"
50'-4"
7'-2"
33'-0"
333'-8"
29'-6"
3'-4"
53'-1"
84'-6"
65'-3"
13'-10"
35'-11"
220'-0"
11'-7"
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
B.O.H.
EV 
ADA 
VAN
EV
ADA
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
BLDG ABOVE
6%
6%
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
17'-11"
9'-0"
5'-0"
12'-1"
10'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
34'-2"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
33'-10"
2'-0"
2'-4"
43'-6"
31'-4"
EV 
EV 
10'-0"
10'-0"
EV
ADA
EV
ADA
AMB
EV
ADA
AMB
EV
ADA
AMB
23'-7"
24'-0"
25'-0"
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
30'-1"
11'-10"
8'-4"
RAMP UP
37'-6"
8'-10"
23'-2"
6'-10"
32'-6"
8'-9"
9'-11"
8'-3"
11'-4"
7'-11"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:58 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
287
5
1
82
2
1
3
0
0
381
LEVEL 2.5
29
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
29
LEVEL 2
26
0
0
21
2
1
3
0
0
53
GROUND
27
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
31
BASEMENT B1
103
1
0
31
0
0
0
0
0
135
BASEMENT B2
102
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
133
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
246 of 551

--- page 247 ---
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
ELEV.
STAIR
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
21'-1"
125'-2"
80'-0"
16'-1"
90'-6"
28'-4"
332'-10"
27'-2"
93'-3"
83'-7"
16'-0"
11'-7"
220'-0"
35'-11"
123'-0"
24'-1"
80'-0"
16'-1"
50'-5"
7'-2"
33'-0"
46'-6"
333'-8"
29'-6"
3'-4"
53'-1"
84'-6"
65'-3"
13'-10"
35'-11"
220'-0"
11'-7"
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
BLDG ABOVE
RAMP DOWN
6%
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
18'x9' STALL, 
TYP
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
OPEN TO BELOW
25'-0"
24'-5"
34'-2"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
33'-10"
2'-0"
2'-4"
43'-6"
31'-4"
69'-4"
30'-1"
11'-10"
8'-4"
37'-6"
8'-10"
23'-2"
6'-10"
32'-6"
8'-9"
9'-11"
8'-3"
19'-3"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:58 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A103
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
TOTAL
287
5
1
82
2
1
3
0
0
381
LEVEL 2.5
29
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
29
LEVEL 2
26
0
0
21
2
1
3
0
0
53
GROUND
27
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
31
BASEMENT B1
103
1
0
31
0
0
0
0
0
135
BASEMENT B2
102
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
133
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
247 of 551

--- page 248 ---
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
80'-0"
45'-2"
80'-0"
49'-5"
205'-2"
27'-2"
174'-8"
18'-2"
11'-7"
220'-0"
35'-11"
79'-4"
45'-6"
80'-0"
68'-9"
204'-10"
136'-1"
35'-11"
220'-0"
11'-7"
BLDG ABOVE
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
LINE OF BLDG BELOW
LINE OF BLDG BELOW
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
30'-1"
11'-10"
8'-4"
22'-6"
7'-7"
32'-6"
8'-10"
11'-5"
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-9"
31'-1"
12'-4"
9'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:40 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A104
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
248 of 551

--- page 249 ---
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
125'-2"
80'-0"
49'-5"
205'-2"
27'-2"
175'-0"
17'-10"
11'-7"
220'-0"
35'-11"
80'-0"
45'-2"
80'-0"
68'-5"
205'-2"
136'-1"
35'-11"
220'-0"
11'-7"
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
30'-1"
11'-10"
8'-4"
22'-6"
7'-7"
32'-6"
8'-10"
11'-5"
8'-3"
10'-0"
8'-9"
31'-1"
12'-4"
9'-4"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:41 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - LEVEL 4-10 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A105
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - LEVEL 4 PLAN (L5 - L10 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
249 of 551

--- page 250 ---
ROOF
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
PARAPET
PENTHOUSE
STAIR
SERV. ELEV.
1
S1-A303
1
S1-A301
B.O.H.
33'-5"
10'-0"
12'-3"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1
S1-A302
1
S1-A304
1
S1-A351
1
S1-A351
38'-4"
42'-5"
79'-5"
53'-8"
53'-8"
35'-1"
221'-2"
11'-3"
67'-11"
80'-9"
44'-5"
81'-0"
26'-1"
54'-11"
44'-5"
54'-5"
26'-3"
48'-11"
8'-5"
27'-6"
48'-7"
AREA DRAIN, 
TYP
ROOF
32'-1"
47'-3"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:41 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A106
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S1 - PENTHOUSE ROOF PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
N
250 of 551

--- page 251 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:43 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A300
NTS
2
S1 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
S1 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
251 of 551

--- page 252 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.50'
26.42' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
175'-1"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
156'-1"
14
5
22
22
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 23'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0" 
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-6"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:44 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - NORTH (HILLSDALE BLVD) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
252 of 551

--- page 253 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.50'
26.42' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
175'-1"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
156'-1"
5
22
14
22
5
14
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-9" O.C.
HEIGHT: 16'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 21'-6"
HEIGHT: 9'-6"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:45 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A302
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - EAST (EL CAMINO REAL) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
253 of 551

--- page 254 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.50'
26.42' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
175'-1"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
156'-1"
5
22
22
14
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0" TYP. O.C.
HEIGHT: 6'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 15'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
4
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:45 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A303
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - SOUTH ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
254 of 551

--- page 255 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
153' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
FFE 29.50'
26.42' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
MAX. BUILDING HEIGHT
175'-1"
19'-0"
MAX. PLATE HEIGHT
156'-1"
5
22
14
22
5
14
6
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 21'-0"
HEIGHT: 9'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 9'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-6" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 8'-0"
HEIGHT: 13'-6"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:46 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A304
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - WEST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
255 of 551

--- page 256 ---
S1 GROUND LEVEL
0"
S1 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 9
123' - 0"
S1 LEVEL 10
138' - 0"
S1 ROOF
153' - 0"
S1 TOP OF PENTHOUSE
172' - 0"
PARKING
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
RAMP DOWN
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
ELEV.
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
RETAIL
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
HILLSDALE BLVD
S1 LEVEL 2.5
28' - 6"
CLR
8'-6"
CLG
12'-0"
CLG
10'-0"
ELEV.
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
STAIR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
STAIR
FFE 29.50'
26.42' LOWEST 
EXISTING GRADE AT 
BUILDING PERIMETER
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
156'-1"
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
175'-1"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
B.O.H.
UNCOVERED
PARKING
S BASEMENT LEVEL B2
-32' - 0"
RAMP
RAMP
RAMP
PARKING
CLR
8'-6"
RAMP UP
PARKING
PARKING
ELEV
PIT
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
ELEV
LOBBY
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
MECH EQUIP
MECH EQUIP
FFE: 27.70
FFE: 29.50
S BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-16' - 0"
9'-0" CLR
FFE: 29.35
2
S1-A351
2
S1-A351
ELEV
PIT
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
S1 GROUND LEVEL
0"
S1 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
S BASEMENT LEVEL B2
-32' - 0"
S BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-16' - 0"
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
SPEED RAMP
B.O.H.
STAIR
6.50%
PARKING
RAMP
PARKING
RAMP
8'-6" CLR
8'-6" CLR
RAMP PARKING
8'-6" CLR
ENTRY/ EXIT
UNCOVERED
PARKING
STAIR
12.9%
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:59 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S1 RAMP SECTION
256 of 551

--- page 257 ---
BIKE RACK
7'-0"
1'-3"
8'-6"
30 RACKS
6'-1"
NOTES:
EACH RACK CAN 
ACCOMMODATE 
2 VERTICALLY STACKED BIKES
30 X 2 =  60 TOTAL BIKES
5'-11"
10'-10"
9'-0"
53'-7"
15'-6"
43'-7"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S1
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:47 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S1 - ENLARGED PLANS
23.04025.00
2025
S1-A401
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
S1 - LONG TERM BIKE PARKING PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
257 of 551

--- page 258 ---
ADA
STORAGE
-32.00'
6.2% RAMP UP
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
ELEV.
STAIR
STAIR
SERV.
ELEV.
9'-0"
TYP.
30'-0"
37'-8"
37'-8"
37'-8"
49'-10"
37'-8"
37'-8"
11'-1"
279'-3"
5'-2"
24'-10"
5'-2"
30'-0"
2'-6"
27'-6"
10'-2"
19'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
13'-6"
16'-6"
14'-10"
15'-2"
14'-10"
15'-2"
15'-8"
12'-2"
303'-0"
14'-11"
27'-11"
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
STAIR
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET S1-A100A FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
S2
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
S2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 2
PLAN
S2-A100A
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
258 of 551

--- page 259 ---
30'-0"
37'-8"
37'-8"
37'-8"
49'-10"
37'-8"
37'-8"
11'-1"
279'-3"
ELEV.
STAIR
STAIR
ADA
VAN
ADA
ADA
-16.00'
12.9% RAMP UP
6.2% RAMP DOWN
8.0% TRANSITION UP
12.0% RAMP DOWN
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
12'-0"
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
18'X9'
STALL,
TYP.
5'-0"
TYP.
9'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
24'-0"
TYP.
18'-0"
TYP.
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
EV
5'-2"
24'-10"
5'-2"
30'-0"
2'-6"
27'-6"
10'-2"
19'-10"
30'-0"
30'-0"
13'-6"
16'-6"
14'-10"
15'-2"
14'-10"
15'-2"
15'-8"
12'-2"
303'-0"
14'-11"
27'-11"
SERV.
ELEV.
9'-0"
TYP.
TO PROP LINE
TO PROP LINE
STAIR
30"X30" COLUMN, TYP.
23.04025.00
10-17-2025
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
NORTH
SEE SHEET S1-A100B FOR CONTINUATION
 1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
LEGEND
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
S2
PROJECT
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
S2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
S2-A100B
SHEET NOTES
1. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA STALLS SHOWN ARE 9'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0" WIDE
ACCESS AISLE
2. ALL STANDARD AND EV ADA VAN STALLS SHOWN ARE 12'-0" WIDE WITH A 5'-0"
WIDE ACCESS AISLE
3. ALL EV AMBULATORY STALLS SHOWN ARE 10'-0" WIDE. NO ACCESS AISLE
REQUIRED.
259 of 551

--- page 260 ---
PARKING
LEASE SPACE
TENANT
LOBBY
ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
CORRIDOR
STAIR
SERV. ELEV.
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
STAIR
VESTIBULE
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
TRASH/RECYCLE
RM
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
BIKE PARKING
STAIR
STAIR
STAIR
EAST SAILER DR
HILLSDALE BLVD
LAUREL CREEK
WEST SAILER DR
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A301
1
S2-A304
1
S2-A303
STAIR
B.O.H.
RAMP UP
RAMP DOWN
135'-7"
11'-11"
83'-3"
12'-9"
2'-2"
12'-9"
28'-0"
45'-3"
286'-5"
151'-4"
35'-0"
43'-2"
40'-0"
229'-6"
32'-6"
4'-7"
80'-0"
37'-8"
95'-0"
12'-3"
32'-6"
229'-6"
40'-0"
7'-7"
139'-6"
139'-4"
286'-6"
31'-11"
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
1
S2-A401
ADA 
VAN
ADA
ADA
8%
8%
13%
12.9%
8%
8%
BERTH 10'x25', 
TYP. OF 2
9'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
18'-0"
6'-0"
24'-3"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
BERTH 
10'x25', 
TYP. OF 4
22'-1"
37'-8"
37'-8"
30'-0"
19'-10"
37'-8"
37'-8"
6'-11"
16'-11"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
32'-5"
8'-6"
10'-10"
7'-9"
11'-3"
19'-9"
31'-6"
11'-0"
7'-9"
TRASH/RECYCLING
STAGING AREA
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:23:59 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A101
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
387
6
2
79
3
1
2
2
0
482
LEVEL 2.5
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
LEVEL 2
52
1
0
18
3
1
2
2
0
79
GROUND
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
BASEMENT B1
152
2
1
31
0
0
0
0
0
186
BASEMENT B2
166
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
197
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
260 of 551

--- page 261 ---
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
PARKING
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
RAMP DOWN
RAMP DOWN
EV VAN
ADA
EV 
ADA
COMPACT
135'-7"
11'-11"
139'-0"
45'-3"
286'-5"
40'-0"
229'-6"
4'-7"
80'-0"
37'-8"
95'-0"
12'-3"
32'-6"
229'-6"
40'-0"
7'-7"
139'-6"
139'-4"
286'-6"
31'-11"
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A304
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
COMPACT
RAMP UP
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
EV 
6%
6%
3% 
6%
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
18'x9' 
STALL, 
TYP
9'-0"
18'-0"
9'-0"
12'-0"
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A301
1
S2-A303
BLDG 
ABOVE
LINE OF 
BLDG 
ABOVE
26'-0"
22'-1"
37'-8"
37'-8"
30'-0"
19'-10"
37'-8"
37'-8"
6'-11"
16'-11"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
32'-5"
EV 
ADA
EV 
ADA
ADA
EV 
ADA
AMB
8'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
8'-8"
10'-0"
EV 
ADA
AMB
9'-0"
5'-0"
RAMP DOWN
BLDG 
ABOVE
8'-6"
10'-10"
7'-9"
11'-3"
19'-9"
31'-6"
7'-4"
23'-2"
11'-0"
7'-9"
12'-2"
10'-6"
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 5:19:22 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A102
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
387
6
2
79
3
1
2
2
0
482
LEVEL 2.5
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
LEVEL 2
52
1
0
18
3
1
2
2
0
79
GROUND
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
BASEMENT B1
152
2
1
31
0
0
0
0
0
186
BASEMENT B2
166
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
197
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
261 of 551

--- page 262 ---
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
PARKING
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
STAIR
STAIR
B.O.H.
135'-7"
11'-11"
139'-0"
45'-3"
286'-5"
40'-0"
229'-6"
32'-6"
4'-7"
80'-0"
37'-8"
95'-0"
12'-3"
229'-6"
40'-0"
7'-7"
139'-6"
139'-4"
286'-6"
31'-11"
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A304
RAMP DOWN
6%
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
18'x9' STALL, 
TYP
AREA ON FLOOR BELOW
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A301
1
S2-A303
LINE OF 
BLDG 
ABOVE
LINE OF 
BLDG 
ABOVE
24'-8"
37'-8"
37'-8"
6'-11"
14'-7"
30'-0"
32'-5"
8'-6"
10'-10"
7'-9"
11'-3"
19'-9"
31'-6"
7'-4"
23'-2"
11'-0"
7'-9"
11'-1"
12'-2"
LINE OF 
BLDG 
ABOVE
30" x 30" COLUMN, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 5:19:22 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A103
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LEVEL 2.5 PLAN
TOTAL
387
6
2
79
3
1
2
2
0
482
LEVEL 2.5
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
16
LEVEL 2
52
1
0
18
3
1
2
2
0
79
GROUND
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
BASEMENT B1
152
2
1
31
0
0
0
0
0
186
BASEMENT B2
166
1
0
30
0
0
0
0
0
197
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S2
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
262 of 551

--- page 263 ---
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
9'-8"
108'-7"
12'-0"
124'-7"
5'-2"
72'-3"
245'-2"
79'-2"
45'-11"
79'-2"
60'-3"
204'-4"
37'-6"
79'-11"
45'-8"
79'-2"
37'-1"
204'-9"
60'-2"
126'-10"
12'-8"
95'-0"
15'-2"
39'-6"
234'-6"
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A304
BLDG ABOVE
LINE OF 
BLDG 
ABOVE
LINE OF 
ROOF 
BELOW
LINE OF BLDG BELOW
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A301
1
S2-A303
8'-6"
10'-10"
7'-9"
11'-3"
19'-9"
31'-6"
8'-1"
23'-1"
11'-0"
7'-9"
12'-10"
8'-11"
32'-6"
12'-10"
8'-11"
32'-6"
BLDG ABOVE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:48 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A104
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
263 of 551

--- page 264 ---
SERV. ELEV.
ELEV.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
STAIR
CORRIDOR
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
STAIR
STAIR
LEASE SPACE
119'-9"
10'-7"
129'-8"
62'-7"
260'-0"
80'-0"
45'-2"
80'-0"
205'-2"
37'-1"
79'-11"
45'-3"
80'-0"
37'-1"
205'-2"
59'-9"
126'-10"
12'-8"
109'-5"
39'-6"
248'-11"
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A304
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
LEASE SPACE
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A301
1
S2-A303
8'-6"
10'-10"
7'-9"
11'-3"
19'-9"
31'-6"
8'-1"
23'-1"
11'-0"
7'-9"
12'-10"
8'-11"
32'-6"
12'-10"
8'-11"
32'-6"
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:49 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - LEVEL 4-8 PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A105
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LEVEL 4 PLAN (L5 - L8 SIMILAR)
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
264 of 551

--- page 265 ---
ROOF
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
PARAPET
PENTHOUSE
SERV. ELEV.
STAIR
B.O.H.
1
S2-A302
1
S2-A304
1
S2-A303
8'-5"
33'-10"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
MECHANICAL 
AREA
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A351
1
S2-A301
130'-6"
76'-1"
53'-5"
21'-10"
58'-4"
44'-8"
58'-2"
22'-4"
49'-6"
95'-1"
105'-5"
59'-7"
205'-4"
37'-1"
260'-0"
63'-4"
250'-0"
39'-11"
10'-3"
27'-3"
20'-3"
11'-7"
ROOF
47'-4"
32'-6"
1/4":1'-0" 
SLOPE, TYP.
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
- BOTTOM OF MECHANICAL SCREEN RAISED 2'-0" OFF OF ROOF
SHEET NOTES
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:49 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A106
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S2 - PENTHOUSE ROOF PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
NN
265 of 551

--- page 266 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:49 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A300
NTS
2
S2 NORTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
NTS
1
S2 SOUTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
266 of 551

--- page 267 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.40'
29.15' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
142'-3"
19'-0"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
123'-3"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-6"
HEIGHT: 30'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 30'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
22
5
12
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 4'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:50 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A301
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - NORTH (HILLSDALE BLVD) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
267 of 551

--- page 268 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.40'
29.15' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
142'-3"
19'-0"
123'-3"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 7'-6"
HEIGHT: 26'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-6"
HEIGHT: 26'-0"
12
5
2
5
22
12
6
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 4'-6"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
28' - 6"
LEVEL 2.5
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:50 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A302
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - EAST (EAST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
268 of 551

--- page 269 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.40'
29.15' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
142'-3"
19'-0"
123'-3"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 4'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
13
22
5
12
6
4
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-0"
HEIGHT: 10'-6"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 5'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 3'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
LEVEL 2.5
28' - 6"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:51 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A303
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - SOUTH ELEVATION
1
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
269 of 551

--- page 270 ---
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
METAL: DARK COLOR
1
METAL: WARM COLOR
2
METAL: PATINA COLOR
3
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
4
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL: COOL COLOR
6
BRICK: DARK COLOR
7
BRICK: WARM COLOR
8
BRICK: LIGHT COLOR
9
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
10
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
11
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
12
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
13
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
14
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
15
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
16
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
17
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: NATURAL COLOR
18
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHT COLOR
19
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
20
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHT COLOR
21
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
22
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
23
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
24
PLASTER: WARM COLOR
25
PLASTER: COOL COLOR
26
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
27
VINYL: DARK COLOR
28
REFER TO SHEET G040 & G041 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
PERFORATED METAL: WARM COLOR
29
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARK COLOR
30
GROUND LEVEL
0"
ROOF LEVEL
123' - 0"
LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
FFE 29.40'
29.15' LOWEST EXISTING 
GRADE AT BUILDING 
PERIMETER
142'-3"
19'-0"
123'-3"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 5'-0" O.C.
HEIGHT: 10'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 4'-0"
HEIGHT: 12'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 2'-0"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
GLASS TYP.
WIDTH: 6'-0"
HEIGHT: 11'-0"
13
2
12
22
12
4
1
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
LEVEL 2.5
28' - 6"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:52 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ELEVATIONS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A304
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - WEST (WEST SAILER DR.) ELEVATION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
270 of 551

--- page 271 ---
S2 GROUND LEVEL
0"
S2 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 3
33' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 4
48' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 5
63' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 6
78' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 7
93' - 0"
S2 LEVEL 8
108' - 0"
S2 ROOF
123' - 0"
S2 TOP OF PENTHOUSE
142' - 0"
PARKING
HILLSDALE BLVD
S2 LEVEL 2.5
28' - 6"
LEASE SPACE
ELEV.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
BIKE PARKING
RAMP UP
RAMP DOWN
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
B.O.H.
ELEV.
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
LEASE SPACE
CLR
8'-6"
UNCOVERED
PARKING
S BASEMENT LEVEL B2
-32' - 0"
FFE 29.40'
29.15' LOWEST 
EXISTING GRADE AT 
BUILDING PERIMETER
BLDG PLATE HEIGHT
123'-3"
BLDG TOTAL HEIGHT
142'-3"
CLR
8'-6"
PARKING
B.O.H.
MECHANICAL 
ENCLOSURE 
SCREEN
B.O.H.
B.O.H.
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS
CORRIDOR
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
ELEV
B.O.H
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
ELEV
B.O.H
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
ELEV
B.O.H
LEASE SPACE
EGRESS 
CORRIDOR
ELEV
B.O.H
LEASE SPACE
CLR
12'-0"
RAMP
RAMP
MECH EQUIP
MECH EQUIP
S BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-16' - 0"
FFE: 31.57
FFE: 32.40
9'-0" CLR
2
S2-A351
2
S2-A351
CLR
10'-0"
10'-0" TYP. ABOVE 
GROUND FLOOR
VESTIBULE, TENANT LOBBY
RETAIL, GROCER
LEASE SPACE
ELEVATOR, STAIRS
EGRESS CORRIDOR, 
ELEVATOR LOBBY
PARKING, RAMPS
LOADING/ SERVICE DOCK
BIKE PARKING,
TRASH/RECYCLE ROOM,
BACK OF HOUSE (B.O.H)
RESIDENTIAL
EXTERIOR TERRACE
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
S1 GROUND LEVEL
0"
S1 LEVEL 2
18' - 0"
S BASEMENT LEVEL B2
-32' - 0"
S BASEMENT LEVEL B1
-16' - 0"
LOADING/SERVICE
DOCK
PARKING
UNCOVERED
PARKING
ENTRY/ EXIT
8'-6" CLR
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
SPEED RAMP
RAMP PARKING
STORAGE
PARKING
6.50%
8'-6" CLR
8'-6" CLR
12.9%
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-17 9:24:00 AM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - BUILDING SECTION
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A351
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - BUILDING SECTION
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S2 RAMP SECTION
271 of 551

--- page 272 ---
9'-7"
1'-3"
45 RACKS
7'-5"
BIKE RACK
7'-0"
7'-8"
3'-0"
NOTES:
EACH RACK CAN ACCOMMODATE 
2 VERTICALLY STACKED BIKES
45 X 2 =  90 TOTAL BIKES
66'-8"
16'-7"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S2
TRUE
NORTH
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
2025-10-16 4:55:52 PM
Autodesk Docs://23.04025.00 - Hillsdale MP Peer Review/HILLSDALE-HOK-AR.rvt
S2 - ENLARGED PLANS
23.04025.00
2025
S2-A401
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
S2 - LONG TERM BIKE PARKING PLAN
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
272 of 551

--- page 273 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S3-A301
2
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A301
1
2
S3-A351
______
1
S3-A351
______
LOBBY
ELEV LOBBY
6'-0"
HILLSDALE BLVD
WEST SAILER DR
EVA LANE
CO-WORK/LEASING
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
UTILITY/BOH
GARAGE
TRASH TERM
UTILITY/BOH
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
LOUNGE
A2.0
JR1.0
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
LOADING/MOVE-IN
63'-8"
37'-7"
254'-10"
125'-0"
110'-2"
BIKE STORAGE
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
STAIR
B2.0
LOBBY
STAIR
CO-WORK/LEASING
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
UTILITY/BOH
GARAGE
TRASH TERM
UTILITY/BOH
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
LOUNGE
A2.0
JR1.0
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
LOADING/MOVE-IN
BIKE STORAGE
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
STAIR
B2.0
34'-5"
165'-2"
303'-8"
34'-6"
163'-10"
50'-5"
17'-4"
9'-6"
24'-0"
23'-7"
24'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
38'-0"
45'-8"
35'-9"
20'-2"
31'-0"
16'-0"
71'-6"
35'-2"
27'-0"
256'-2"
26'-2"
37'-0"
126'-4"
29'-0"
CL
24'-0"
24'-0"
30'-3"
6'-0"
27'-4"
UP
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
______
1
S3-A451
6.4%
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A101A
S3 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN - ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
TOTAL
314
6*
2*
53
2*
1*
2*
0
11
385
LEVEL 5
54
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
64
LEVEL 4
75
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
85
LEVEL 3
75
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
86
LEVEL 2
66
3
1
11
1
0
1
0
0
83
GROUND
44
2*
1*
12
1*
1*
1*
0
11
67
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S3
273 of 551

--- page 274 ---
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A302
2
______
S3-A301
1
STAIR
6'-0"
HILLSDALE BLVD
EVA LANE
EDISON ST
TRASH TERM
UTILITY/BOH
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
LOUNGE
PASEO
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
STAIR
ELEV
STAIR
89'-9"
110'-2"
31'-0"
50'-0"
20'-0"
A2.0
S1.0
S1.0
1
S3-A351
______
______
S3-A303
2
______
S3-A303
1
______
S3-A303
3
______
S3-A303
4
B1.0
B1.0
B3.1
S1.1
S1.1
S1.1
B1.4
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
B1.4
A1.3
UTILITY/BOH
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
STAIR
TRASH TERM
UTILITY/BOH
ELEC/TRANSFORMER
LOUNGE
PASEO
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
COURTYARD
STAIR
ELEV
STAIR
A2.0
S1.0
S1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B3.1
S1.1
S1.1
S1.1
B1.4
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
B1.4
A1.3
UTILITY/BOH
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
17'-0"
207'-8"
196'-11"
17'-6"
196'-4"
17'-6"
C1.1
35'-7"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
40'-1"
34'-9"
21'-0"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
37'-10"
23'-2"
32'-5"
24'-0"
15'-4"
36'-0"
24'-0"
12'-0"
9'-4"
36'-0"
35'-2"
31'-0"
29'-0"
29'-0"
29'-0"
15'-4"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
9'-7"
15'-4"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
31'-0"
31'-0"
71'-5"
31'-0"
16'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A101B
S3 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN - ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
274 of 551

--- page 275 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S3-A301
2
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A301
1
2
S3-A351
______
1
S3-A351
______
A2.0
GARAGE
B2.0
S3.0
S3.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
A1.2
B1.1
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
STAIR
A2.0
GARAGE
B2.0
S3.0
S3.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
UTILITY/BOH
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
A1.2
B1.1
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
STAIR
6'-0"
254'-10"
125'-0"
34'-6"
163'-10"
CL
23'-1"
303'-4"
34'-6"
163'-10"
50'-5"
17'-4"
24'-0"
23'-7"
24'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
38'-0"
31'-0"
16'-7"
256'-2"
18'-4"
126'-4"
CL
CL
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
34'-0"
34'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-5"
31'-0"
18'-4"
32'-3"
6'-0"
27'-4"
UP
DN
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
6.4%
6.4%
OPEN TO BELOW
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A102A
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE A
TOTAL
314
6*
2*
53
2*
1*
2*
0
11
385
LEVEL 5
54
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
64
LEVEL 4
75
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
85
LEVEL 3
75
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
86
LEVEL 2
66
3
1
11
1
0
1
0
0
83
GROUND
44
2*
1*
12
1*
1*
1*
0
11
67
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S3
275 of 551

--- page 276 ---
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A302
2
______
S3-A301
1
A2.0
A2.0
S3.0
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
ELEV
STAIR
B3.0
C1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
STAIR
89'-9"
A1.0
S1.0
A1.0
1
S3-A351
______
______
S3-A303
2
______
S3-A303
1
______
S3-A303
3
______
S3-A303
4
B1.0
B1.0
S1.0
S1.0
B1.3
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
B1.1
B1.1
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
JR2.0
A2.0
A2.0
S3.0
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
ELEV
STAIR
B3.0
C1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
STAIR
A1.0
S1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
S1.0
S1.0
B1.3
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
B1.1
B1.1
B1.1
A1.2
A1.2
A1.2
JR2.0
6'-0"
34'-6"
42'-0"
34'-6"
31'-0"
15'-8"
209'-0"
197'-8"
17'-6"
197'-8"
17'-6"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
40'-1"
34'-9"
21'-0"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
37'-10"
23'-7"
32'-5"
24'-0"
15'-4"
36'-0"
9'-4"
36'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
31'-0"
31'-0"
71'-5"
31'-0"
16'-0"
36'-0"
24'-11"
24'-11"
37'-7"
OPEN TO BELOW
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A102B
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE B
276 of 551

--- page 277 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S3-A301
2
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A301
1
2
S3-A351
______
1
S3-A351
______
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S3.0
S3.0
UP
DN
B2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
STAIR
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S3.0
S3.0
B2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
STAIR
6'-0"
254'-10"
125'-0"
34'-6"
163'-10"
CL
23'-1"
303'-4"
34'-6"
163'-10"
50'-5"
17'-4"
24'-0"
23'-7"
24'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
38'-0"
256'-2"
18'-4"
126'-4"
CL
CL
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
34'-0"
34'-0"
CL
CL
24'-0"
24'-2"
23'-7"
32'-8"
31'-0"
18'-4"
32'-3"
6'-0"
27'-4"
B3.0
31'-0"
ELEV LOBBY
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
6.4%
6.4%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A103A
S3 - LEVEL 3-4 PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 3-4 PLAN - ZONE A
TOTAL
314
6*
2*
53
2*
1*
2*
0
11
385
LEVEL 5
54
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
64
LEVEL 4
75
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
85
LEVEL 3
75
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
86
LEVEL 2
66
3
1
11
1
0
1
0
0
83
GROUND
44
2*
1*
12
1*
1*
1*
0
11
67
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S3
277 of 551

--- page 278 ---
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A302
2
______
S3-A301
1
89'-9"
ELEV
STAIR
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
B3.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
S2.0
A1.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
STAIR
1
S3-A351
______
S3.0
______
S3-A303
2
______
S3-A303
1
______
S3-A303
3
______
S3-A303
4
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.2
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
S1.0
S1.0
ELEV
STAIR
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
STAIR
S3.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
6'-0"
34'-6"
24'-0"
18'-0"
34'-6"
31'-0"
15'-8"
209'-0"
197'-8"
17'-6"
197'-8"
17'-6"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
40'-1"
34'-9"
21'-0"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
37'-10"
23'-7"
32'-5"
24'-0"
15'-4"
36'-0"
9'-4"
36'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
24'-11"
34'-6"
34'-6"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
16'-0"
36'-0"
24'-11"
71'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
JR2.0
C1.0
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A103B
S3 - LEVEL 3-4 PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 3-4 PLAN - ZONE B
278 of 551

--- page 279 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S3-A301
2
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A301
1
2
S3-A351
______
1
S3-A351
______
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S3.0
S3.0
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
SKY LOUNGE
TERRACE
DN
B2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
STAIR
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S3.0
S3.0
ELEV
ELEV LOBBY
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
SKY LOUNGE
TERRACE
B2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
STAIR
6'-0"
254'-10"
125'-0"
34'-6"
163'-10"
22'-9"
303'-8"
34'-6"
163'-10"
50'-5"
17'-4"
24'-0"
23'-7"
24'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
38'-0"
256'-2"
18'-4"
CL
CL
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
34'-0"
34'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
18'-4"
32'-3"
6'-0"
27'-4"
31'-0"
40'-5"
36'-7"
24'-7"
40'-11"
56'-5"
ELEV LOBBY
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
UTILITY/BOH
TRASH
STAIR
6.4%
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A104A
S3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN - ZONE A
TOTAL
314
6*
2*
53
2*
1*
2*
0
11
385
LEVEL 5
54
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
64
LEVEL 4
75
0
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
85
LEVEL 3
75
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
86
LEVEL 2
66
3
1
11
1
0
1
0
0
83
GROUND
44
2*
1*
12
1*
1*
1*
0
11
67
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S3
279 of 551

--- page 280 ---
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A302
2
______
S3-A301
1
A2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
S2.0
A2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A1.0
B3.0
A1.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
JR1.0
S2.0
A1.0
ELEV
STAIR
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
S1.0
STAIR
1
S3-A351
______
S3.0
______
S3-A303
2
______
S3-A303
1
______
S3-A303
3
______
S3-A303
4
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.2
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
JR2.0
C1.0
89'-9"
6'-0"
34'-6"
24'-0"
18'-0"
34'-6"
31'-0"
15'-8"
209'-0"
197'-8"
17'-6"
197'-8"
17'-6"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
40'-1"
34'-9"
21'-0"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
37'-10"
24'-1"
CL
32'-5"
24'-2"
15'-2"
36'-0"
9'-4"
36'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
36'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
34'-6"
34'-6"
24'-11"
34'-6"
34'-6"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
16'-0"
36'-0"
24'-11"
71'-0"
36'-0"
37'-7"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A104B
S3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - LEVEL 5 PLAN - ZONE B
280 of 551

--- page 281 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S3-A301
2
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A301
1
2
S3-A351
______
1
S3-A351
______
254'-10"
72'-0"
126'-4"
72'-0"
126'-4"
256'-2"
10'-0"
10'-0"
34'-8"
291'-8"
250'-10"
7'-6"
138'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
LEVEL 5 GARAGE
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A105A
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
281 of 551

--- page 282 ---
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
9'-
______
S3-A302
1
______
S3-A302
2
______
S3-A301
1
1
S3-A351
______
______
S3-A303
2
______
S3-A303
1
______
S3-A303
3
______
S3-A303
4
15'-0"
209'-8"
197'-8"
17'-6"
197'-8"
17'-6"
71'-5"
133'-6"
7'-6"
147'-1"
10'-0"
10'-0"
88'-6"
25'-6"
124'-6"
26'-0"
9'-4"
9'-4"
26'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
89'-9"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A105B
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
282 of 551

--- page 283 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A300
S3 - PERSPECTIVE VIEW
1" = 1'-0"
2
S3 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
1
S3 SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
283 of 551

--- page 284 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.76
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.69
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
37.67
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
37.11
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
48'-9 5/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
60'-0 5/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
50'-4 1/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
61'-7 1/8"
B1
24
C1
26
25
26
26
19
01
19
01
28
24
22
01
28
25
01
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.47
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
32.76
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
54'-10"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
66'-1"
C1
26
B1
24
25
19
01
28
26
28
01
25
28
22
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A301
S3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 HILLSDALE BLVD ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S3 W SAILER DR ELEVATION
284 of 551

--- page 285 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
38.32
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
37.22
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.51
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.48
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
54'-10"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
66'-1"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
48'-2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
59'-5"
C1
26
24
25
19
28
15
26
24
01
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
39.39
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
38.83
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
46'-11 1/4"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
58'-2 1/4"
C1
01
B1
28
24
25
26
26
15
24
19
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A302
S3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 35TH AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S3 EDISON ST ELEVATION
285 of 551

--- page 286 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
C1
28
26
24
01
25
B1
19
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
C1
28
26
24
01
25
B1
19
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
C1
28
26
24
01
25
B1
19
01
22
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
C1
28
26
24
01
25
B1
19
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A303
S3 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
COURTYARD ELEVATION - SOUTH
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
COURTYARD ELEVATION - NORTH
286 of 551

--- page 287 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
A1.3
A1.2
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
LOUNGE
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
B1.1
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
19'-4"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-3"
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.76
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.69
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
37.67
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.11
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
61'-7 1/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
50'-4 1/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
60'-0 5/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
48'-9 5/8"
GARAGE
34'-8"
125'-0"
34'-8"
100'-9"
64'-11"
FFE = 35.76
FFE = 35.76
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
6.4%
6.4%
6.4%
6.4%
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
S3.0
S3.0
S3.0
S3.0
CO-WORK/LEASING
GARAGE
25'-6"
160'-6"
47'-6"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A351
S3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S3 GARAGE SECTION
287 of 551

--- page 288 ---
6'-4"
3'-10"
6'-1"
4'-4"
1'-3"
2'-0"
5'-8"
6'-4"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
NOTE: 252 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
132 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
76 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
32 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
12 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S3-A451
S3 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM
288 of 551

--- page 289 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
UP
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
UP
24'-0"
GARAGE
ELEV
STAIR
1
S4-A351
______
27'-0"
6.4%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A100
S4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
137
4
1
23*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
168
LEVEL 2
72
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
75
GROUND
48
1
1
14*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
67
BASEMENT B1
17
2
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
26
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S4
289 of 551

--- page 290 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
UP
36TH AVE
TRANSFORMERS
ELECTRICAL
LOBBY / MAIL /
PARCEL
STORAGE
MPOE
STAIR
STAIR
LEASING /
CO-WORK
FITNESS
MOVE-IN /
LOADING
TRASH
TERMINATION
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
GARAGE
DN
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
PRIVATE ROAD / EVA LANE
197'-4"
31'-0"
71'-9"
23'-9"
60'-0"
28'-9"
79'-2"
15'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
ADJACENT PARCEL
ADJACENT PARCEL
ADJACENT PARCEL
28'-9"
1
S4-A351
______
BIKE STORAGE
B3.2
S1.1
S1.1
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
308'-8"
26'-4"
159'-0"
12'-0"
24'-4"
161'-0"
12'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
9'-8"
17'-1"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
36'-4"
30'-3"
29'-11"
29'-0"
46'-9"
18'-4"
22'-3"
30'-6"
48'-1"
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-7"
30'-10"
29'-6"
30'-9"
53'-5"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
17'-7"
30'-9"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
55'-8"
24'-0"
18'-5"
17'-6"
27'-0"
24'-0"
______
1
S4-A451
6.4%
6.4%
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A101
S4 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
137
4
1
23*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
168
LEVEL 2
72
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
75
GROUND
48
1
1
14*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
67
BASEMENT B1
17
2
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
26
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S4
290 of 551

--- page 291 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
DN
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
TRASH
STAIR
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
GARAGE
STAIR
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
DN
DN
29'-0"
1
S4-A351
______
61'-0"
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
B3.2
A1.1
A1.1
B2.2
S1.1
S1.1
197'-4"
24'-0"
29'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
308'-8"
12'-0"
24'-4"
161'-0"
12'-0"
17'-9"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
36'-4"
30'-3"
29'-11"
CL
47'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-7"
30'-10"
29'-6"
30'-9"
53'-5"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
17'-7"
30'-9"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
55'-8"
18'-1"
17'-6"
15'-5"
19'-3"
62'-1"
23'-7"
24'-0"
24'-0"
72'-0"
24'-0"
36'-4"
15'-8"
18'-4"
15'-5"
24'-0"
27'-0"
27'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
6.4%
6.4%
OPEN TO BELOW
OPEN TO BELOW
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A102
S4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
137
4
1
23*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
168
LEVEL 2
72
1
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
75
GROUND
48
1
1
14*
1*
1*
1*
0
8
67
BASEMENT B1
17
2
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
26
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING S4
291 of 551

--- page 292 ---
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
TRASH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
POOL LOUNGE
POOL EQUIP.
UTILITY/BOH
50'-0"
20'-0"
A3.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A3.0
S1.0
A2.0
B3.0
67'-5"
31'-0"
90'-7"
1
S4-A351
______
______
S4-A303
1
B2.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.1
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.1
S1.1
A1.0
C1.1
B2.1
B3.1
C1.0
197'-4"
308'-8"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
30'-3"
32'-1"
36'-4"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
36'-4"
32'-1"
129'-2"
30'-3"
9'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
35'-7"
12'-0"
161'-0"
24'-4"
32'-6"
12'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
32'-6"
15'-9"
15'-2"
11'-7"
18'-0"
28'-5"
22'-4"
8'-6"
38'-0"
37'-8"
31'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
______
S4-A303
2
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A103
S4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
292 of 551

--- page 293 ---
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
TRASH
UTILITY/BOH
TRASH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
1
S4-A351
______
______
S4-A303
1
C1.0
A2.0
A3.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A3.0
S1.0
A2.0
JR1.0
B3.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.1
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.1
S1.1
A1.0
B2.1
C1.1
B3.1
B2.0
38'-2"
CL
31'-3"
197'-4"
308'-8"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
30'-3"
32'-1"
36'-4"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
36'-4"
32'-1"
129'-2"
30'-3"
9'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
35'-7"
12'-0"
161'-0"
24'-4"
32'-6"
24'-0"
36'-0"
32'-6"
15'-9"
15'-2"
18'-0"
28'-5"
22'-4"
38'-0"
37'-8"
31'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
28'-11"
21'-0"
36'-0"
25'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
______
S4-A303
2
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A104
S4 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 4 PLAN
293 of 551

--- page 294 ---
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
TRASH
C1.0
JR1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A3.0
S1.0
A2.0
JR1.0
B3.0
B2.0
B1.0
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
1
S4-A351
______
______
S4-A303
1
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.1
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.1
S1.1
A1.0
B2.1
C1.1
B3.1
31'-0"
197'-4"
308'-8"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
30'-3"
32'-1"
36'-4"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
36'-4"
32'-1"
129'-2"
CL
30'-3"
9'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-2"
35'-5"
12'-0"
161'-0"
24'-4"
32'-6"
24'-0"
36'-0"
32'-6"
15'-9"
15'-2"
18'-0"
28'-5"
22'-4"
38'-0"
37'-8"
31'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
18'-0"
28'-11"
21'-0"
36'-0"
25'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
21'-0"
______
S4-A303
2
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A105
S4 - LEVEL 5-6 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 5-6 PLAN
294 of 551

--- page 295 ---
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
UTILITY/BOH
JR1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A3.0
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
A3.0
S1.0
A2.0
JR1.0
B3.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
TRASH
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
SKY LOUNGE
TERRACE
1
S4-A351
______
______
S4-A303
1
A1.1
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.1
S1.1
B2.1
C1.1
B2.0
31'-0"
197'-4"
308'-8"
30'-3"
9'-2"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
30'-3"
32'-1"
36'-4"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
67'-9"
129'-9"
CL
30'-3"
9'-2"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-2"
35'-5"
12'-0"
161'-0"
24'-4"
32'-6"
24'-0"
36'-0"
32'-6"
15'-9"
15'-2"
18'-0"
28'-5"
22'-4"
38'-0"
27'-4"
31'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
18'-0"
28'-11"
21'-0"
36'-0"
25'-0"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
21'-0"
40'-2"
10'-0"
12'-0"
17'-9"
______
S4-A303
2
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A106
S4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
295 of 551

--- page 296 ---
______
S4-A302
1
______
S4-A302
2
______
S4-A301
1
______
S4-A301
2
1
S4-A351
______
______
S4-A303
1
92'-7"
197'-4"
308'-8"
28'-9"
266'-0"
14'-0"
150'-5"
24'-4"
26'-9"
129'-2"
68'-5"
14'-0"
22'-7"
70'-5"
10'-0"
161'-0"
26'-4"
25'-3"
9'-2"
8'-3"
10'-10"
10'-0"
10'-0"
10'-10"
8'-3"
18'-5"
9'-2"
70'-6"
162'-9"
52'-6"
7'-6"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
______
S4-A303
2
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A107
S4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
296 of 551

--- page 297 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A300
S4 - PERSPECTIVE VIEW
1" = 1'-0"
2
S4 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
1
S4 SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
297 of 551

--- page 298 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
12' - 0"
LEVEL 2
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.22
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.43
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8 1/2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-8 1/2"
01
B1
26
28
24
C1
25
24
24
01
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
12' - 0"
LEVEL 2
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.30
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.40
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.22
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.43
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-9 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-9 1/4"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
83'-7 1/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-7 1/8"
B1
26
28
24
C1
A1
25
09
09
24
01
01
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A302
S4 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
BUILDING ELEVATION - NORTH
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
BUILDING ELEVATION - EAST
298 of 551

--- page 299 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
12' - 0"
LEVEL 2
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.30
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.40
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-7 1/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
83'-7 1/8"
01
B1
26
18
28
24
C1
24
25
01
01
09
22
22
24
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
12' - 0"
LEVEL 2
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.30
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.40
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-7 1/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
83'-7 1/8"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.22
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.43
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-9 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-9 1/4"
01
B1
26
18
28
01
24
C1
A1
09
25
24
01
22
22
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A301
S4 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 36TH AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
S4 WEST ELEVATION
299 of 551

--- page 300 ---
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
10'-0"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
C1
B1
26
25
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
10'-0"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
28
C1
B1
26
18
01
09
25
22
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A303
S4 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
5
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
300 of 551

--- page 301 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
12' - 0"
LEVEL 2
22' - 3"
LEVEL 3
32' - 6"
LEVEL 4
42' - 9"
LEVEL 5
53' - 0"
LEVEL 6
83' - 6"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
63' - 3"
LEVEL 7
73' - 6"
ROOF LEVEL
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-12' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
10'-0"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
12'-0"
12'-0"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
A1.1
LEASING /
CO-WORK
COURTYARD
CORRIDOR
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.22
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
30.43
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
82'-9 1/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-9 1/4"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.30
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
29.40
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
83'-7 1/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-7 1/8"
FFE =  29.30
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A351
S4 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
S4 - BUIDING SECTION
301 of 551

--- page 302 ---
6'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0"
1'-4"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0"
4'-4"
6'-4"
6'-4"
5'-8"
6'-4"
NOTE: 178 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
56 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
64 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
S4
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
S4-A451
S4 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLANS - BIKE ROOM
302 of 551

--- page 303 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
W1-A302
3
______
W1-A304
2
1
W1-A351
______
339'-1"
161'-0"
64'-0"
97'-0"
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
18'-2"
18'-2"
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
INNER ALLEY
TOWNHOME WAY
EDISON ST
HILLSDALE BLVD
______
W1-A303
2
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
______
W1-A303
1
______
W1-A303
3
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
20'-0"
20'-0"
18'-2"
20'-0"
20'-0"
18'-2"
40'-0"
39'-11"
39'-11"
40'-0"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A101A
W1 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN - ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
TOTAL
108
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
108
GROUND
108
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
108
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W1
303 of 551

--- page 304 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
W1-A301
2
64'-0"
97'-0"
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
18'-2"
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.0
215'-6"
65'-4"
150'-2"
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.1
18'-2"
20'-7"
18'-2"
20'-0"
57'-0"
INNER ALLEY
TOWNHOME WAY
EDISON ST
32 ND AVE
TOWNHOME WAY
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
______
W1-A302
1
______
W1-A301
3
______
W1-A301
4
______
W1-A302
2
______
W1-A301
1
______
W1-A304
1
39'-11"
40'-0"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
122'-10"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
123'-4"
39'-11"
20'-0"
18'-2"
20'-0"
18'-2"
20'-0"
18'-2"
20'-0"
18'-2"
40'-0"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
39'-11"
40'-0"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
122'-10"
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A101B
W1 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN - ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
TOTAL
108
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
108
GROUND
108
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
108
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W1
304 of 551

--- page 305 ---
______
W1-A302
3
______
W1-A304
2
1
W1-A351
______
339'-1"
161'-0"
______
W1-A303
2
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
______
W1-A303
1
______
W1-A303
3
40'-0"
40'-0"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
123'-4"
123'-4"
123'-4"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
39'-11"
39'-11"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A102A
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE A
305 of 551

--- page 306 ---
______
W1-A301
2
20'-2"
215'-6"
65'-4"
150'-2"
57'-0"
39'-2"
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
______
W1-A302
1
______
W1-A301
3
______
W1-A301
4
______
W1-A302
2
______
W1-A301
1
______
W1-A304
1
40'-0"
40'-0"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
40'-0"
CL
CL
CL
20'-8"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-4"
20'-8"
20'-5"
123'-4"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
122'-10"
CL
20'-5"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
161'-0"
39'-11"
39'-11"
39'-11"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-8"
38'-9"
122'-10"
5'-0"
5'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A102B
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - LEVEL 2 PLAN - ZONE B
306 of 551

--- page 307 ---
______
W1-A302
3
______
W1-A304
2
1
W1-A351
______
339'-1"
161'-0"
161'-0"
______
W1-A303
2
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
______
W1-A303
1
______
W1-A303
3
40'-0"
39'-11"
40'-0"
39'-11"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
123'-4"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
123'-4"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A103A
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN -
ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE A
307 of 551

--- page 308 ---
______
W1-A301
2
20'-2"
215'-6"
65'-4"
150'-2"
57'-0"
39'-2"
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH3.0
TH3.0
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.5
TH3.0a
TH3.4
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
TH3.6
TH3.4
TH3.0a
TH3.5
______
W1-A302
1
______
W1-A301
3
______
W1-A301
4
______
W1-A302
2
______
W1-A301
1
______
W1-A304
1
19'-2"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
40'-0"
39'-11"
40'-0"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
38'-9"
40'-0"
39'-11"
20'-8"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
123'-4"
20'-2"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-7"
122'-10"
20'-7"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-6"
20'-8"
123'-4"
39'-11"
161'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
122'-10"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A103B
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN -
ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - LEVEL 3 PLAN - ZONE B
308 of 551

--- page 309 ---
______
W1-A302
3
______
W1-A304
2
1
W1-A351
______
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
339'-1"
161'-0"
161'-0"
______
W1-A303
2
______
W1-A303
1
______
W1-A303
3
124'-8"
124'-8"
124'-8"
124'-8"
41'-4"
35'-10"
41'-4"
41'-4"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A104A
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
- ZONE A
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE A
309 of 551

--- page 310 ---
______
W1-A301
2
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
161'-0"
215'-6"
215'-6"
______
W1-A302
1
______
W1-A301
3
______
W1-A301
4
______
W1-A302
2
______
W1-A301
1
______
W1-A304
1
41'-4"
124'-2"
34'-7"
124'-8"
124'-8"
41'-4"
41'-4"
124'-8"
124'-8"
41'-4"
41'-4"
5'-0"
5'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A104B
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
- ZONE B
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN - ZONE B
310 of 551

--- page 311 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A300
W1 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS
1" = 1'-0"
1
W1 SOUTHEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
2
W1 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
311 of 551

--- page 312 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.91
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
33.63
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
21
09
01
24
24
01
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE ELEVATION 
34.48
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.68
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
31'-0"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
42'-6"
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.72
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
33.63
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
31'-1"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
42'-7"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.45
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.97
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.45
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.10
W1.1
W1.2
W1.4
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
30
09
01
24
24
01
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
21
09
01
24
24
01
09
01
24
01
28
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.2
W1.4
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
30
08
09
01
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
28
28
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A301
W1 - BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W1.1 WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1.1 EAST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
W1.1, W1.2, W1.4 TOWNHOME WAY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
W1.2 & W1.4 INNER ALLEY ELEVATION
312 of 551

--- page 313 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 34.39
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.37
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
34'-1"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
45'-7"
W1.1
W1.3
W1.5
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 34.57
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.37
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
33'-11"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
45'-5"
3'-0"
1'-4"
4'-4"
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
21
09
01
24
24
01
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
30
09
01
24
24
09
01
24
01
15
28
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.3
W1.5
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
45'-7"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
34'-1"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
33'-11"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
45'-5"
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
28
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.6
W1.8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.26
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
35.00
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
33'-2 5/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
44'-8 5/8"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.53
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.15
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
47'-5 3/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
35'-11 3/8"
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
21
09
01
24
24
01
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
30
09
01
24
24
01
28
28
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A302
W1 - BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1.1, W1.3, W1.5 EDISON ST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W1.3 & W1.5 INNER ALLEY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
W1.6 & W1.8 TOWNHOME WAY ELEVATION
313 of 551

--- page 314 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.6
W1.8
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.26
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
35.00
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
31.53
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.15
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
28
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.7
W1.9
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.93
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.15
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
35'-11 1/2"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
47'-5 1/2"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.48
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.24
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
36'-4 7/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
47'-10 7/8"
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
30
09
01
24
24
01
09
A1
01
15
C1
B1
19
21
09
01
24
24
01
28
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
W1.7
W1.9
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.93
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.15
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.48
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.24
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
30
08
09
01
C1
09
B1
A1
01
24
21
08
09
01
28
28
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A303
W1 - BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1.6 & W1.8 INNER ALLEY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W1.7 & W1.9 EDISON ST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
W1.7 & W1.9 INNER ALLEY ELEVATION
314 of 551

--- page 315 ---
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.04
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.85
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.80
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.56
09
01
24
01
28
09
01
24
01
28
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.48
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.97
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.57
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
36.73
09
01
24
15
28
09
01
28
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A304
W1 - BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1.8 & W1.9 WEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W1.2 & W1.3 EAST ELEVATION
315 of 551

--- page 316 ---
GROUND LEVEL
0' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
LEVEL 2
10' - 3"
T.O. PLWD
LEVEL 3
20' - 6"
T.O. PLWD
30' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
41' - 3"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
10'-6"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.26
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
35.34
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.93
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
37.15
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
46'-4 5/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
34'-10 5/8"
TOTAL BUILDING HEIGHT
46'-5 1/2"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
34'-11 1/2"
FFE = 39.32
FFE = 39.32
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W1.1
W1.2
W1.3
W1.4
W1.5
W1.6
W1.7
W1.8
W1.9
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W1-A351
W1 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W1 - BUILDING SECTION
316 of 551

--- page 317 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
24'-9"
24'-0"
20'-0"
24'-0"
27'-0"
STAIR
ELEV
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
UP
12'-4"
210'-2"
30'-0"
24'-10"
278'-9"
252'-6"
UTILITY/BOH
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
28'-5"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-9"
14'-0"
30'-0"
49'-8"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
16'-2"
30'-3"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
1'-9"
2
W2-A351
______
9.0%
19.5%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A100
W2 - BASEMENT LEVEL
1 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
212
5
2
37*
1*
1
1*
0
17
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
25
3
1
19*
1*
1
1*
0
17
58
BASEMENT B1
120
1
1
18
0
0
0
0
0
140
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W2
317 of 551

--- page 318 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
UP
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
UP
UP
UP
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
BIKE STORAGE
FITNESS
CO-WORK/LEASING
LOBBY
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
ELEC /
TRANSFORMER
GARAGE
TRASH TERM
TRANSFORMER
ELEC
MPOE
DN
UP
TH1.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
STAIR
30'-7"
273'-0"
31'-5"
24'-0"
20'-0"
202'-10"
46'-11"
46'-0"
38'-6"
87'-0"
23'-8"
WEST SAILER DR
32ND AVE
GREEN WAY
TOWNHOME WAY
252'-6"
20'-0"
24'-0"
TH1.0
TH1.0
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
29'-8"
37'-0"
31'-7"
31'-0"
36'-3"
41'-11"
28'-7"
122'-7"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
52'-8"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-9"
14'-0"
30'-0"
49'-8"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
53'-9"
28'-6"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
TH3.0
30'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
19'-6"
11'-7"
21'-6"
196'-0"
35'-0"
TH3.1
21'-6"
196'-0"
35'-0"
31'-4"
30'-7"
273'-0"
31'-6"
35'-7"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
39'-4"
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
24'-0"
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
2
W2-A351
______
9.0%
9.0%
9.0%
19.5%
335'-0"
______
1
W2-A451
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A101
W2 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
212
5
2
37*
1*
1
1*
0
17
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
25
3
1
19*
1*
1
1*
0
17
58
BASEMENT B1
120
1
1
18
0
0
0
0
0
140
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W2
318 of 551

--- page 319 ---
DN
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
DN
DN
DN
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
STAIR
STORAGE
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
TRASH
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
GARAGE
TH1.0
B3.0
30'-7"
273'-0"
31'-5"
DN
252'-6"
177'-11"
24'-0"
TH1.0
TH1.0
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
37'-0"
6'-9"
28'-4"
202'-10"
122'-7"
26'-3"
26'-0"
30'-3"
31'-1"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
53'-9"
28'-6"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
37'-3"
30'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
20'-4"
10'-10"
21'-6"
196'-0"
35'-0"
30'-7"
273'-0"
31'-6"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
52'-8"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-1"
36'-9"
14'-0"
30'-0"
49'-8"
A1.1
A1.1
A1.1
32'-5"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
47'-6"
CL
29'-11"
B1.2
TH3.0
TH3.1
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
2
W2-A351
______
9.0%
14.6%
35'-7"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
39'-4"
335'-0"
19'-2"
______
2
W2-A451
OPEN TO BELOW
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A102
W2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
212
5
2
37*
1*
1
1*
0
17
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
25
3
1
19*
1*
1
1*
0
17
58
BASEMENT B1
120
1
1
18
0
0
0
0
0
140
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W2
319 of 551

--- page 320 ---
S2.0
A1.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
B1.0
S2.0
B3.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
B3.0
A2.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
A2.0
B2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
TRASH
POOL LOUNGE
COURTYARD
59'-2"
25'-0"
50'-0"
26'-0"
26'-0"
252'-6"
B1.1
POOL EQUIP
A2.0
A2.0
B1.1
S1.0
A2.0
139'-2"
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
POOL
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
15'-0"
8'-9"
6'-7"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
49'-8"
40'-10"
24'-8"
31'-0"
______
W2-A303
4
______
W2-A303
3
______
W2-A303
2
______
W2-A303
1
B1.0
A1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
32'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-4"
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
45'-4"
JR1.0
275'-0"
31'-5"
19'-6"
200'-0"
33'-0"
34'-5"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
17'-6"
32'-1"
45'-4"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
18'-0"
37'-7"
JR1.0
C1.0
C1.1
2
W2-A351
______
28'-7"
28'-7"
275'-0"
31'-6"
335'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A103
W2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
320 of 551

--- page 321 ---
S2.0
A2.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
A1.0
B2.1
S2.0
B3.0
A1.0
A1.0
B3.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
B2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
TRASH
273'-0"
33'-5"
19'-6"
200'-0"
33'-0"
252'-6"
B1.1
S2.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
S1.0
A2.0
A2.0
B1.1
A2.0
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
59'-2"
26'-0"
26'-0"
139'-2"
34'-5"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
17'-6"
32'-1"
35'-7"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
CL
49'-8"
41'-8"
34'-6"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-2"
31'-0"
19'-5"
24'-8"
______
W2-A303
4
______
W2-A303
3
______
W2-A303
2
______
W2-A303
1
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
45'-4"
31'-0"
B1.0
32'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
32'-4"
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
45'-4"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
18'-0"
35'-7"
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
JR1.0
C1.1
28'-7"
28'-7"
275'-0"
31'-6"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A104
W2 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
321 of 551

--- page 322 ---
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
______
W2-A303
4
______
W2-A303
3
______
W2-A303
2
______
W2-A303
1
59'-2"
SKY LOUNGE
A2.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
B2.1
S2.0
B3.0
A1.0
A1.0
B3.0
S2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S1.0
B2.0
TERRACE
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
28'-7"
275'-0"
31'-5"
19'-6"
200'-0"
33'-0"
48'-11"
9'-11"
15'-0"
A2.0
252'-6"
B1.1
S2.0
A2.0
S1.0
S1.0
A2.0
B1.1
A2.0
26'-0"
26'-0"
139'-2"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
18'-0"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-4"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
34'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
15'-4"
34'-6"
49'-8"
41'-10"
34'-6"
15'-4"
15'-4"
34'-2"
31'-0"
19'-5"
24'-8"
STAIR
STAIR
TRASH
A2.0
A1.0
B1.0
A1.0
S2.0
B1.0
37'-7"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
45'-4"
31'-0"
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.0
62'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
18'-0"
37'-7"
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
34'-5"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
9'-4"
49'-6"
A1.0
A1.0
JR1.0
C1.0
32'-1"
8'-10"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A105
W2 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
322 of 551

--- page 323 ---
______
W2-A301
1
______
W2-A302
1
______
W2-A301
2
______
W2-A302
2
1
W2-A351
______
139'-2"
59'-2"
19'-6"
200'-0"
33'-0"
303'-6"
4'-4"
47'-5"
5'-6"
211'-7"
15'-8"
28'-1"
5'-10"
150'-6"
200'-0"
______
W2-A303
4
______
W2-A303
3
______
W2-A303
2
______
W2-A303
1
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A106
W2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
323 of 551

--- page 324 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A300
W2 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEW
1" = 1'-0"
1
W2 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
2
W2 SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
324 of 551

--- page 325 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-3 7/8"
(E) GRADE ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.10
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-0 1/2"
26
C1
18
24
A1
B1
25
01
01
24
28
22
09
01
22
01
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.10
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.05
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-3 7/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
80'-11 7/8"
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.80
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-1 7/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
80'-9 7/8"
C1
01
B1
26
25
28
24
28
01
18
01
22
26
18
24
09
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
05
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
09
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
13
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
17
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
21
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
25
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
29
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A301
W2 -  ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 32ND AVE ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W2 WEST SAILER DR ELEVATION
325 of 551

--- page 326 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-5 3/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-2"
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.05
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.80
B1
01
C1
18
25
28
26
24
28
A1
26
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
32.10
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.05
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-8 3/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-4 3/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-6 7/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-2 7/8"
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.80
C1
01
B1
26
25
28
26
24
28
18
25
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
05
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
09
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
13
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
17
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
21
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
25
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
29
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A302
W2 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 GREENWAY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W2 TOWNHOME WAY ELEVATION
326 of 551

--- page 327 ---
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
B1
26
24
C1
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
C1
26
24
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
B1
26
24
28
C1
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
B1
26
24
28
C1
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
05
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
09
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
13
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
17
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
21
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
25
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
29
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A303
W2 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
COURTYARD ELEVATION - SOUTH
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
COURTYARD ELEVATION - NORTH
327 of 551

--- page 328 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-14' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
UTILITY/BOH
TH1.0
TH1.0
B1.1
B1.1
S1.0
CORRIDOR
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
ELEC /
TRANSFORMER
B2.0
B2.0
COURTYARD
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
14'-0"
82'-0"
13'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
(E) GRADE ELEVATION 
34.18
PROPOSED BLDG 
GRADE ELEVATION 
32.10
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.05
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-5 3/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
82'-1 3/8"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-3 7/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-11 7/8"
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.80
9'-1"
9'-1"
B1.1
S1.0
S1.0
B1.1
B1.1
S1.0
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.1
12'-11"
9'-4"
13'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
FFE = 35.80
FFE = 32.10
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-14' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
14'-0"
9'-1"
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
COURTYARD
14.6%
19.5%
9.0%
9.0%
9.0%
4.0%
A1.0
A1.0
GARAGE
9'-3"
9'-3"
13'-0"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A351
W2 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W2 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W2 - GARAGE RAMP SECTION
328 of 551

--- page 329 ---
4'-4"
6'-11"
2'-0"
2'-5"
3'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
4'-10"
6'-4"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
6'-4"
6'-4"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
NOTE: 280 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
140 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
32 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
1'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0" 0'-10"
1'-0"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0" 0'-10"
6'-4"
6'-6"
6'-4"
36 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W2
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W2-A451
W2 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM - GROUND LEVEL
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM - LEVEL 2
329 of 551

--- page 330 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
1
W3-A351
______
GARAGE
UTILITY/BOH
UTILITY/BOH
STAIR
ELEV
UTILITY/BOH
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
41'-6"
32'-7"
52'-5"
31'-7"
38'-1"
31'-7"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
1'-9"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
30'-3"
16'-2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
49'-8"
30'-0"
14'-0"
36'-9"
30'-1"
30'-0"
30'-0"
30'-0"
28'-5"
24'-0"
24'-0"
20'-0"
322'-11"
31'-6"
278'-9"
12'-8"
30'-0"
210'-2"
12'-4"
252'-6"
UP
2
W3-A351
______
9.0%
16.3%
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A100
W3 - BASEMENT LEVEL
1 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - BASEMENT LEVEL 1 PLAN
TOTAL
214
5*
2*
37*
1
1
1
0
14
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
26
2*
1*
20*
1
1
1
0
14
57
BASEMENT B1
121
2
1
17
0
0
0
0
0
141
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W3
330 of 551

--- page 331 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
10'-0"X18'-0"
______
W3-A302
2
WEST SAILER DR
GREEN WAY
HILLSADALE BLVD
TOWNHOME WAY
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
24'-0"
20'-0"
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
273'-0"
35'-0"
196'-0"
21'-6"
LOBBY
CO-WORK/LEASING
FITNESS
BIKE STORAGE
TRASH TERM
TRANSFORMER
ELEC
MPOE
STAIR
MAIL/PARCEL
STORAGE
ELEC /
TRANSFORMER
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH3.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
39'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
30'-7"
30'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-10"
12'-3"
32'-5"
64'-3"
36'-3"
28'-7"
41'-11"
47'-6"
46'-0"
38'-6"
87'-0"
37'-0"
31'-7"
25'-4"
35'-1"
31'-0"
31'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
32'-8"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
53'-9"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
49'-8"
30'-0"
14'-0"
36'-9"
30'-1"
30'-0"
30'-0"
47'-8"
20'-0"
202'-10"
122'-7"
GARAGE
TH3.1
24'-8"
19'-5"
267'-11"
24'-0"
DN
UP
24'-0"
ACCESS CONTROL FENCE & GATE
2
W3-A351
______
9.0%
16.3%
9.0%
9.0%
31'-3"
______
1
W3-A451
TRASH/RECYCLING 
STAGING AREA
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A101
W3 - GROUND LEVEL
PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - GROUND LEVEL PLAN
TOTAL
214
5*
2*
37*
1
1
1
0
14
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
26
2*
1*
20*
1
1
1
0
14
57
BASEMENT B1
121
2
1
17
0
0
0
0
0
141
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W3
331 of 551

--- page 332 ---
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
9'-0"X18'-0"
______
W3-A302
2
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
20'-0"
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
273'-0"
18'-5"
35'-0"
196'-0"
21'-6"
39'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
30'-7"
30'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
32'-5"
29'-0"
47'-6"
36'-7"
CL
31'-8"
25'-0"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
32'-8"
28'-6"
19'-6"
28'-6"
28'-6"
53'-9"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
49'-8"
30'-0"
14'-0"
36'-9"
30'-1"
30'-0"
30'-0"
47'-8"
24'-0"
CL
203'-2"
122'-7"
STAIR
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH3.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH2.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH1.0
TH3.1
STORAGE
B3.0
A3.0
A1.2
A1.1
A1.1
28'-4"
19'-2"
178'-6"
28'-4"
6'-9"
31'-1"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
TRASH
24'-8"
19'-5"
267'-11"
6'-0"
DN
2
W3-A351
______
9.0%
14.6%
32'-5"
34'-9"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
8'-9"
48'-2"
______
1
W3-A451
OPEN TO BELOW
18 x 24 COLUMN, TYP.
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A102
W3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - LEVEL 2 PLAN
TOTAL
214
5*
2*
37*
1
1
1
0
14
266
LEVEL 2
67
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
68
GROUND
26
2*
1*
20*
1
1
1
0
14
57
BASEMENT B1
121
2
1
17
0
0
0
0
0
141
STANDARD
ADA
ADA VAN
EV
EV ADA
EV ADA VAN
EV AMB
COMPACT
VISITOR
LEVEL
STALL TYPE
TOTAL
PARKING STALL TABULATION - BUILDING W3
332 of 551

--- page 333 ---
______
W3-A302
2
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
______
W3-A303
3
______
W3-A303
4
______
W3-A303
2
______
W3-A303
1
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
291'-5"
35'-0"
196'-0"
21'-6"
32'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
34'-9"
S2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.1
S2.0
C1.0
JR1.0
S2.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B3.0
B3.0
A3.1
A1.3
A1.0
A1.0
TRASH
45'-4"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
38'-7"
34'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
18'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
45'-4"
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
JR1.0
C1.1
S2.0
32'-1"
17'-6"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-9"
34'-5"
S2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
A2.0
B2.0
S1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
POOL LOUNGE
POOL EQUIP
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
34'-6"
49'-8"
34'-6"
6'-0"
9'-4"
15'-4"
34'-2"
39'-11"
26'-0"
33'-8"
26'-0"
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
25'-0"
50'-0"
139'-2"
59'-2"
COURTYARD
24'-8"
19'-5"
270'-0"
2
W3-A351
______
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A103
W3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - LEVEL 3 PLAN
333 of 551

--- page 334 ---
______
W3-A302
2
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
______
W3-A303
3
______
W3-A303
4
______
W3-A303
2
______
W3-A303
1
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
291'-5"
33'-0"
198'-0"
21'-6"
32'-1"
8'-9"
18'-1"
34'-9"
S2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.1
S2.0
C1.0
JR1.0
S2.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B3.0
B3.0
A3.1
A1.3
A1.0
A1.0
TRASH
45'-4"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
38'-7"
34'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
18'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
45'-4"
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
JR1.0
C1.1
S2.0
32'-1"
17'-6"
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-9"
34'-5"
S2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
A2.0
B2.0
S1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
S1.0
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
34'-6"
49'-8"
41'-10"
34'-6"
15'-4"
34'-2"
26'-0"
33'-8"
26'-0"
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
139'-2"
59'-2"
15'-4"
24'-8"
19'-5"
270'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A104
W3 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - LEVEL 4-6 PLAN
334 of 551

--- page 335 ---
______
W3-A302
2
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
______
W3-A303
3
______
W3-A303
4
______
W3-A303
2
______
W3-A303
1
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
273'-0"
18'-5"
33'-0"
198'-0"
21'-6"
32'-1"
8'-10"
18'-0"
34'-9"
S2.0
STAIR
ELEV
ELEV
ELEV
STAIR
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
B1.1
S2.0
C1.0
JR1.0
S2.0
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
B3.0
B3.0
A3.1
A1.3
A1.0
A1.0
TRASH
45'-4"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
38'-8"
34'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
37'-7"
18'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
36'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
B1.0
B1.0
B1.0
A1.0
A1.0
SKY LOUNGE
9'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
34'-9"
34'-5"
S2.0
A1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
A2.0
B2.0
S1.0
A2.0
A2.0
S1.0
A1.0
A1.0
A1.0
S2.0
S1.0
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
34'-6"
49'-8"
41'-10"
34'-6"
15'-4"
34'-2"
26'-0"
33'-8"
26'-0"
34'-6"
15'-4"
24'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
31'-0"
139'-2"
59'-2"
15'-4"
24'-8"
19'-5"
60'-9"
46'-11"
15'-0"
9'-11"
15'-4"
46'-2"
33'-3"
20'-6"
270'-0"
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A105
W3 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - LEVEL 7 PLAN
335 of 551

--- page 336 ---
______
W3-A302
2
______
W3-A301
1
______
W3-A302
1
______
W3-A301
2
1
W3-A351
______
______
W3-A303
3
______
W3-A303
4
______
W3-A303
2
______
W3-A303
1
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
SLOPE 1/4" / 1'-0"
322'-11"
252'-6"
31'-6"
264'-5"
26'-11"
33'-0"
198'-0"
21'-6"
139'-9"
59'-10"
20'-9"
8'-10"
10'-0"
10'-0"
20'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
126'-5"
7'-6"
88'-6"
180'-5"
87'-11"
200'-0"
270'-0"
PARAPET WALL
ROOF DRAIN
MECHANICAL AREA
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A106
W3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - ROOF LEVEL PLAN
336 of 551

--- page 337 ---
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A300
W3 - PERSPECTIVE
VIEW
1" = 1'-0"
1
W3 NORTHWEST PERSPECTIVE
1" = 1'-0"
2
W3 SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVE
337 of 551

--- page 338 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.29
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.91
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-0 3/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-4 3/4"
C1
01
B1
26
25
25
28
18
24
25
26
A1
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.65
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.90
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.29
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.91
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-1 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
80'-9 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-1 3/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
71'-5 3/4"
C1
01
B1
26
01
25
25
28
18
24
25
09
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A301
W3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 GREENWAY ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W3 WEST SAILER DR ELEVATION
338 of 551

--- page 339 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.65
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.90
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-0 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-8 5/8"
B1
01
C1
26
25
25
28
18
24
25
A1
01
09
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.65
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.90
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.29
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-0 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-8 5/8"
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.91
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
82'-0 3/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-4 3/4"
C1
01
B1
26
25
25
28
18
24
25
24
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A302
W3 - ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 HILLSDALE BLVD ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W3 TOWNHOME WAY ELEVATION
339 of 551

--- page 340 ---
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
01
B1
C1
25
24
28
22
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
01
B1
C1
25
24
28
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
01
B1
25
18
26
24
28
C1
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
01
B1
25
18
26
24
28
C1
WINDOW LEGEND
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
A1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
B1
T.O. FINISH FLOOR
0'-0"
T.O. OPERABLE SILL
3'-6"
T.O. FRAME
8'-2"
C1
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
4'-8"
2'-4"
7'-0"
3'-0"
6'-0"
9'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
?
01
EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
REFER TO SHEET G040 FOR MATERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS
?
?
?
02
03
04
METAL: DARK COLOR
METAL: WARM COLOR
METAL: PATINA COLOR
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
?
05
?
?
?
06
07
08
METAL: LIGHT COLOR
METAL: COOL COLOR
BRICK: DARK TONE
BRICK: MEDIUM TONE
?
09
?
?
?
10
11
12
BRICK: LIGHT TONE
TERRACOTTA: DARK COLOR
TERRACOTTA: WARM COLOR
TERRACOTTA: LIGHT COLOR
?
13
?
?
?
14
15
16
TERRACOTTA: TEXTURED, LIGHT COLOR
TERRACOTTA: COOL COLOR
CONCRETE: COOL COLOR
PRECAST CONCRETE: COLOR VARIES
?
17
?
?
?
18
19
20
FIBER CEMENT PANEL: COOL COLOR
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: DARKER TONE
WOOD LOOK MATERIAL: LIGHTER TONE
PHENOLIC MATERIAL: DARK COLOR
?
21
?
?
?
22
23
24
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: LIGHTER TONE
GLASS: CLEAR GLASS COLOR
FRITTED GLASS: COLOR VARIES
PLASTER: DARK TONE
?
25
?
?
?
26
27
28
PLASTER: MEDIUM TONE
PLASTER: LIGHT TONE
VINYL: LIGHT COLOR
VINYL: DARK COLOR
?
29
?
30
METAL: PERFORATED COPPER PANEL
FIBER CEMENT SIDING: DARKER TONE
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A303
W3 - COURTYARD
ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
COURTYARD ELEVATION - WEST
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
COURTYARD ELEVATION - EAST
1/16" = 1'-0"
3
COURTYARD ELEVATION - SOUTH
1/16" = 1'-0"
4
COURTYARD ELEVATION - NORTH
5
340 of 551

--- page 341 ---
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
41' - 0"
LEVEL 5
51' - 3"
LEVEL 6
71' - 9"
ROOF LEVEL
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-12' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
82' - 0"
UPPER ROOF LEVEL
61' - 6"
LEVEL 7
B1.1
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
A2.0
B1.1
B1.1
B1.1
B1.1
TH1.0
TH1.0
UTILITY/BOH
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
ELEC /
TRANSFORMER
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
B2.0
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.3
A1.2
COURTYARD
A1.3
PROPOSED 
PROPERTY LINE
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.65
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
35.90
(E) GRADE 
ELEVATION 
34.29
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-0 5/8"
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
81'-8 5/8"
PROPOSED 
BLDG GRADE 
ELEVATION 
33.91
CORRIDOR
CORRIDOR
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
82'-0 3/4"
BUILDING PLATE HEIGHT
72'-4 3/4"
11'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
9'-1"
20'-6"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
12'-0"
82'-0"
11'-0"
9'-3"
9'-3"
FFE = 35.90
FFE = 35.90
LOBBY / AMENITY
SHEET NOTES
- FOR WINDOW/ GLAZING SYSTEM TYPE, SEE ELEVATION SHEETS,
- FOR SHORT-TERM BIKE PARKING, SEE LANDSCAPE SHEETS,
- FOR ON-STREET PARKING, SEE CIVIL SHEETS
LEGEND
PROPOSED PROPERTY LINE
BLDG OVERHANG
VEHICULAR ENTRY/EXIT
VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
RETAIL / GROCER
ELEVATORS / STAIRS
B.O.H. / TRASH ROOM
PARKING / LOADING 
DOCK / RAMPS
TERRACE / DECK
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
CIRCULATION
0' - 0"
GROUND LEVEL
10' - 3"
LEVEL 2
20' - 6"
LEVEL 3
30' - 9"
LEVEL 4
BASEMENT LEVEL 1
-12' - 0"
T.O. SLAB
10'-3"
10'-3"
10'-3"
12'-0"
GARAGE
GARAGE
GARAGE
COURTYARD
9'-1"
9.0%
16.3%
9.0%
9.0%
14.6%
4.5%
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A351
W3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
1
W3 - BUILDING SECTION
1/16" = 1'-0"
2
W3 - RAMP SECTION
341 of 551

--- page 342 ---
6'-4"
4'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0" 0'-1"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-0" 0'-1"
6'-4"
6'-11"
6'-4"
4'-4"
2'-5"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
3'-0"
NOTE: 280 TOTAL BIKE RACKS PROVIDED
140 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
32 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
2'-6"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
1'-4"
2'-6"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
2'-9"
1'-4"
6'-4"
6'-6"
6'-4"
El Camino Real
31st Ave
W Hillsdale Blvd
Laurel Creek
W3
TRUE 
NORTH
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
Sheet Number
Key Plan
No.
Description
Date
Original is 36 x 24. Do not scale contents of this drawing.
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved ©
HSC Property Owner LLC
Project No:
Sheet Title:
APPLICATION CHECKLIST PLANS
10-17-2025
23.04025.00
2025
36th Ave
PROJECT 
NORTH
W3-A451
W3 - ENLARGED PLANS
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
ENLARGED PLAN - BIKE ROOM - GROUND LEVEL
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
ENLARGED PLAN  - BIKE ROOM - LEVEL 2
36 BIKE RACKS
DOUBLE DECKER SYSTEM
342 of 551

--- page 343 ---
GENERAL PLAN 2040
The following policies of General Plan 2040 may be applicable to the project. 
Land Use Element
•
Mixed-Use Medium II (FAR:4.0, Density:51-99 du/ac, Max. Height: 5-8 stories): This 
designation allows medium-density mixed-use buildings that provide a mix of commercial, 
office, and/or residential uses within the same site or building. It is intended to allow a mix of 
uses near other mixed-use, commercial, or residential areas, and within Downtown. 
•
Mixed-Use High (FAR:4.5, Density: 100-130 du/ac, Max. Height: 4-6 stories): This designation 
allows high-density mixed-use buildings that provide a mix of commercial, office, and/or 
residential uses within the same site or building. It is intended to allow a mix of uses near major 
streets, train stations, and shopping centers, and within Downtown. 
•
Policy LU 1.4 - Mixed-Use. Encourage mixed-use developments to include increased residential 
components to provide greater proximity between jobs and housing, promote pedestrian 
activity, and reduce traffic congestion and vehicle miles traveled (“VMT”). 
•
Policy LU 2.2 - Caltrain Stations and El Camino Real Minimum Densities. Require new 
residential development within a half mile of a Caltrain station or within one block of the El 
Camino Real corridor to meet the minimum density established by the applied land use 
designation and encourage new development to achieve maximum density.
•
Policy LU 2.3 - Community Benefits. Develop a framework to allow density/intensity bonuses 
and concessions in exchange for the provision of community benefits, such as additional 
affordable housing, increased open space, public plazas or recreational facilities, subsidized 
retail space for small businesses, subsidized community space for nonprofits that provide 
community support services or childcare facilities, pedestrian and multimodal safety 
improvements, and/or off-site infrastructure improvements above minimum requirements. 
The framework shall allow for nonresidential development (office and commercial) within ¼-
mile of the Hayward Park and Hillsdale Caltrain stations to have heights up to eight-stories when 
commensurate community benefits are provided. 
•
Policy LU 3.1 - Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, and walkable residential 
neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, families, and households of 
all income levels
•
Policy LU 3.5 - Support Service Uses. Encourage businesses that provide a variety of services, 
such as restaurants, child care facilities, medical clinics, gyms, pharmacies, hardware stores, and 
grocery stores in locations that serve residential neighborhoods and commercial/office uses. 
Prioritize the development of these services in equity priority communities in the city.
Comment: The plan does not include information to demonstrate the project provide service 
uses to the residential development, such as childcare facilities, medical clinics, and grocery 
stores. 
343 of 551

--- page 344 ---
•
Policy LU 3.9 - Workplaces. Develop office buildings and business parks to facilitate transit, 
pedestrian, and bicycle commutes. Provide compact development, mixed uses, and connectivity 
to transit to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT).
•
Policy LU 3.11 - Community Gathering Places. Provide and maintain inviting public spaces and 
streets that provide space for all members of the San Mateo community to meet, gather, and 
enjoy.
•
Policy LU 3.12 - Publicly Accessible Spaces. Integrate a variety of privately owned and 
maintained publicly accessible spaces into new development. Spaces should be safe, welcoming, 
easy to access, and include signage that clearly identifies these spaces as publicly accessible.
•
Policy LU 3.13 - Cultural Facilities and Public Art. Recognize cultural facilities, entertainment 
events, performing arts, and public art as part of a healthy and thriving community. Use funds 
from the City’s art in-lieu fee to enhance existing public art and cultural facilities and encourage 
new facilities that reflect the character and identity of the surrounding neighborhoods.
•
Policy LU 5.2 - El Camino Real Landscaping. Retain the general residential and landscaped 
character of El Camino Real north of Tilton Avenue. Promote the visual upgrading of El Camino 
Real south of 9th Avenue through increased landscaping, coordination of public improvements, 
property maintenance, and sign control, and through conformance with the El Camino Real 
Master Plan or a future consolidated Corridor Plan per Action LU 5-3.
•
Policy LU 6.1 - Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan). Continue 
to implement the Rail Corridor Plan to allow, encourage, and provide guidance for the creation 
of world-class transit-oriented, mixed-use development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the 
Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations, while maintaining and improving the quality of life 
for those who already live and work in the area.
•
Policy LU 6.2 - Hillsdale Shopping Center. Allow redevelopment of the Hillsdale Shopping Center 
for a mix of uses, including commercial, retail, office, hotel, and residential uses. Update the 
Hillsdale Station Area Plan or require preparation of a master development plan to ensure the 
site is developed comprehensively and provides appropriate transitions to the adjacent 
neighborhoods. 
Circulation Element
•
Policy C1.2 - Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects in 
the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are streets designed to 
facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age or ability or 
whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving, and should include landscaping 
and shade trees as well as green streets stormwater infrastructure to reduce runoff and 
pollution.
•
Policy C1.4 - Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize local pedestrian and 
bicycle projects that enhance mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and 
intersection improvements.
344 of 551

--- page 345 ---
•
Policy C1.9 - Dedication of Right-of-Way for Transportation Improvements. Require dedication 
of needed right-of-way for transportation improvements identified in adopted City plans, 
including pedestrian facilities, bikeways, and trails.
•
Action C2.5 - Facilitate TDM Services. Facilitate the provision of TDM services to employees and 
residents through development agreements, Transportation Management Associations, and 
coordination with regional partners.
Community Design and Historic Resources Element
•
Policy CD 3.2 - Replacement Planting. Require appropriate replacement planting or payment of 
an in-lieu fee when protected trees on public or private property are removed.
•
Policy CD 3.6 - New Development Street Trees. Require street tree planting where feasible as a 
condition of all new developments.
•
Policy CD 6.1 - New Development Street Trees. Require street tree planting where feasible as a 
condition of all new developments.
•
Policy CD 6.3 - Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design features and 
elements into the design of new buildings, including locating and orienting buildings to access 
solar exposure, preserving mature vegetation to the extent feasible, and using green building 
materials.
•
Policy CD 6.6 - Signage. Maintain signage controls that appropriately regulate the design, size, 
type, illumination, and quantity of signs visible from corridors and create consistent signage that 
reinforces San Mateo’s unique identity.
•
Policy CD 6.7 - Public Open Space Design. Seek opportunities to establish public open spaces in 
new developments and new public buildings, and promote innovative and creative designs to 
create exceptional, unique, and functional spaces. Require signage that clearly delineates these 
spaces as publicly accessible.
•
Policy CD 6.8 - Public Art. Continue to require public art as part of new development and ensure 
the art is visible and accessible to the public. Support public art as a resource that enhances the 
quality of life for individuals living in, working in, and visiting the city, improves the quality of the 
urban environment, and increases property values.
•
Policy CD 6.9 - Inclusive Outreach. Involve the community in the City’s efforts to develop and 
maintain an attractive urban fabric that reflects San Mateo’s unique visual and architectural 
character. Use outreach and engagement methods that include broad representation and are 
culturally sensitive, particularly for equity priority communities. Communicate clearly how and 
at what stages members of the public can provide input for development projects under review.
•
Policy CD 7.3 - Multifamily Design. Encourage architectural design of new multifamily 
developments that enhances a neighborhood’s visual and architectural character by providing 
context sensitive building and pedestrian-scale elements, high-quality materials and 
construction, open space, and resident amenities.
345 of 551

--- page 346 ---
•
Policy CD 7.4 - Multifamily Parking. Require new multifamily developments to design and site 
parking to avoid blank, ground-floor walls and to screen views of parking from the street. 
•
Policy CD 7.5 - Multifamily Open Space. Require that a portion of required open space for new 
multifamily projects be useable for passive or active recreation. 
•
Policy CD 7.6 - Nighttime Lighting. Require nighttime lighting to be energy efficient and 
designed to minimize light pollution and light spillage on adjacent properties, while protecting 
public safety.
•
Policy CD 8.2 - Human-Scale Design. Cultivate pedestrian activity in commercial and mixed-use 
areas by providing adequate sidewalk widths, activating ground-floor street façades with active 
uses, windows, plantings, and awnings, using high-quality construction materials, and including 
human-scale details and architectural features.
•
Policy CD 8.3 - Respect Existing Scale and Rhythm. New mixed-use and commercial 
development should have context sensitive design that incorporates architectural styles and 
elements that relate to the scale and design of surrounding buildings, including by providing 
breaks in the building face at spacings common to buildings in the area and by stepping back 
upper floors.
•
Policy CD 8.4 - Commercial Parking. Encourage commercial projects to provide required parking 
underground to minimize the amount of ground-floor area dedicated to parking. When parking 
is at-grade, it should be located towards the rear of a parcel, away from active street frontages 
and public spaces.
Open Space Element
•
Policy COS 1.8 - Development Near Water or Wetlands – Avoid wetlands development where 
feasible (as defined under California Environmental Quality Act [CEQA] Guidelines, Section 
15364). Restrict or modify proposed development in areas that contain wetlands or waters to 
ensure the continued health and survival of special-status species and sensitive habitat areas. 
Development projects shall be designed to avoid impacts on sensitive resources, or to 
adequately mitigate impacts by providing on-site or off-site replacement at a higher ratio. 
Project design modification should include adequate avoidance measures, such as the use of 
setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage-control features, or other measures to ensure 
that no net loss of wetland acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat value occurs. 
This may include the use of setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage control features, or 
other measures to maintain existing habitat and hydrologic functions of retained wetlands and 
waters of the US.” 
•
Policy COS 3.1 - Aesthetic and Habitat Values – Public Creeks. Preserve and enhance the 
aesthetic and habitat values of creeks, such as San Mateo, Laurel, and Beresford Creeks, and 
other City owned channels in all activities affecting these creeks, including revegetation, 
rewilding, erosion control, and adequate setbacks for structures.
•
Policy COS 4.7- Air Quality Construction Impacts. Require new construction and grading 
activities to mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities in compliance 
with BAAQMD’s regulations and guidelines on construction activity impacts.
346 of 551

--- page 347 ---
•
Policy COS 4.8 - Truck Facilities. Require new development, when applicable, to provide 
adequate truck parking loading space, and generators for refrigerated trucks to prevent idling 
during truck operation.
•
Policy COS 6.3 - Privately Owned Public Spaces. Require privately owned publicly accessible 
open space to be designed in a way that is welcoming for all, including public access signage and 
minimal physical or visual barriers, to ensure that the space is open and available to the 
community.
•
Policy COS 7.2 - Acreage Standards. Acquire or accept for dedication 2 acres of neighborhood 
and community parks per 1,000 residents. 
Public Services and Facilities Element
•
Policy PSF 2.4 - Water Supply for New Development. Require applicants to provide will-serve 
letters from water purveyors prior to issuing building permits for new development to 
demonstrate that water supply is available.
•
Policy PSF 2.6 - Water Offset Requirements. Require all new development or redevelopment 
projects to comply with the water conservation and offset policies and requirements imposed 
by California Water Service or Estero Municipal Improvement District, depending on the water 
service area in which the project is located.
•
Policy PSF 3.2 - Sewer Requirements for New Development. Require new multifamily and 
commercial developments to evaluate the main sewer lines in the project vicinity, which will be 
used by the new development and make any improvements necessary to convey the additional 
sewage flows.
•
Policy PSF 3.10 - New Creekside Development Requirements. Require that new creek side 
development protect and improve setbacks, banks, and waterways adjacent to the development 
projects to increase flood protection and enhance riparian vegetation and water quality. Prevent 
erosion of creek banks.
•
Policy PSF 4.10 - Private Utility Undergrounding. Require new private development to 
underground service connections onto private property.
•
Policy PSF 6.5 - Policy Child Care Centers in Residential and Employment Areas. Encourage 
child care centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards and at 
employment centers.
Noise Element
•
Policy N 1.2 - Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and 
interior noise insulation for all noise-sensitive land uses listed in Table N-1 that have an exterior 
noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn ) or above, as shown on Figure N-2. The maximum interior noise level 
shall not exceed 45 dBA (Ldn ) in any habitable rooms, as established by the California Building 
Code.
347 of 551

--- page 348 ---
•
Policy N 1.3 - Exterior Noise Level Standard for Residential Uses. Require an acoustical analysis 
for new multifamily common open space for residents that have an exterior noise level of 60 
dBA (Ldn ) or above, as shown on Figure N-2. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into 
residential project design to minimize common open space noise levels. Maximum exterior 
noise should not exceed 65 dBA (Ldn ) for residential uses.
•
Policy N 2.2 - Minimize Noise Impacts. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into new 
development design to minimize short-term noise impacts. Determine whether new 
development has the potential to result in a significant noise impact on existing development 
based on the following standards. Impacts will be analyzed based on long-term operational 
noise increases at the sensitive receptor property line, or new uses that generate noise levels at 
the sensitive receptor property line, as follows:
•
Policy N 2.3 - Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise 
sensitive” in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise generated by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize 
short-term and long-term noise impacts. Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dBA 
(Ldn ) or above at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels.
•
Policy N 2.4 - Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting from 
future traffic increases, as shown on Figure N-2. Promote reduced traffic speeds and the 
installation of noise barriers or other methods to reduce traffic noise along highways and high-
volume roadways where noise-sensitive land uses (listed in Table N-1) are adversely impacted 
by excessive noise levels (60 dBA [Ldn ] or above).
•
Policy N 2.7 - Construction Noise and Vibration Monitoring. Require construction noise limits 
and vibration monitoring around sensitive receptors, including through limiting construction 
hours and individual and cumulative noise from construction equipment. For larger 
development projects that demand intensive construction periods and/or use equipment that 
could create vibration impacts, require a vibration impact analysis, as well as monitoring and 
reporting of noise/vibration levels throughout construction, consistent with industry standards.  
HILLSDALE STATION AREA PLAN 
Adopted in 2009, the Hillsdale Station Area Plan (HSAP) identifies the Hillsdale Mall remaining as the 
regional shopping center with potential housing development opportunities. The Area Plan envisions the 
addition of small retail storefronts along El Camino Real to enhance pedestrian activity and street-level 
engagement. Any major modifications to the Mall or surrounding site are anticipated to require a 
comprehensive master plan. Given the context in which the Area Plan was established, the master plan 
process is expected to be discretionary and implemented through legislative action at that time. 
Although HSAP identifies very limited improvement is needed to implement HSAP, the water supply 
assessment for HSAP does not include redevelopment capacity proposed in this application. The 
required fire flow for a particular development will most likely dictate whether upgrades to the existing 
water lines will need to be made. Therefore, water supply assessment is required for this application.
 Below are applicable policies. 
348 of 551

--- page 349 ---
•
Setbacks – Buildings shall be set back from El Camino Real to create a 10-foot effective sidewalk 
wide enough for a pleasant pedestrian environment. This shall be established per the 
requirements of the City’s Zoning Code and shall be consistently applied throughout the Station 
Area. (Page 69 of HSAP)
•
Buildings shall be set back from El Camino Real consistent with the requirements of City’s Zoning 
Code and the El Camino Real Master Plan, in order to provide for a 10-foot effective sidewalk 
width, wide enough for a pleasant pedestrian environment. (Page 72 of HSAP)
-
Buildings should be built to this effective sidewalk setback. 
-
Buildings are strongly encouraged to have portions set back to create usable outdoor space. 
Planters and well-designed, low-sitting fences should be used to define the edge of the 
outdoor space. 
•
Stepbacks - Buildings are strongly encouraged to provide additional setback to create urban 
open spaces. These should be consistent at the four corners of an intersection; would remain 
part of private development; and would not be publicly dedicated (Page 78 of HSAP): 
-
El Camino Real: 30 feet beyond that described in Section B; 10 feet beyond for buildings that 
are two stories and/or 28 feet in height or less. 
-
East-West Avenues: 20 feet beyond that described in Section C; 10 feet beyond for buildings 
that are two stories and/or 28 feet in height or less. 
•
As an alternative to open space setbacks, buildings located at key intersections shall be oriented 
and architecturally designed to emphasize the corner as a node of activity and architectural 
prominence. Solutions for developing projects that are of an exemplary quality include (Page 79 
of HSAP):
-
Tower elements as a prominent massing feature 
-
Entry plazas on corner sites 
-
Fountains or water features 
-
Distinct changes in the building volume at the primary entry 
-
Prominent landscape features, such as tall trees 
-
Dramatic building lighting for nighttime effect 
-
Public art installations 
The primary building entry should be oriented towards the corner and be visible from the 
intersection. 
•
Massing Stepbacks (Page 70 of HSAP):
-
Buildings taller than three stories are strongly encouraged to step back at least 6 feet above 
the third floor. 
-
Within that stepback, balconies are permitted and encouraged. 
-
Stepbacks are not required, and are strongly discouraged, for the portions of the building 
that face any open space developed at key intersections. 
•
New development shall limit the number of new curb cuts onto El Camino Real, including 
shared access where feasible, side street access, and use of existing curb cuts. 
349 of 551

--- page 350 ---
•
Frontage (El Camino Real) (Page 69 of HSAP):
-
Ground floors of buildings within 100 feet of and fronting on El Camino Real shall include 
building transparency of at least 50% of the building’s street frontage and shall include the 
primary building entrance. Properties on the west side of El Camino Real that are part of the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center may include store display windows in calculating 50% 
transparency and are encouraged to have secondary entrances along El Camino Real. Where 
residential uses are allowed on El Camino Real, they are exempt from this guideline. (Page 
70 of HSAP):
-
El Camino Real street frontage should include primary building entrances. 
-
For the Hillsdale Shopping Center site, transparency requirement can be satisfied with 
display windows. Secondary entrances are “encouraged.” 
-
North of 31st Avenue, require non-residential ground-floor uses in the Active Zone of the 
Station Area, defined as the portion of parcels that face onto El Camino Real from 25th to 
31st Avenues and the portion of parcels that face onto 25th Avenue. This requirement 
applies only to the first 30 feet of depth of a building facing onto El Camino Real. For parcels 
with more than 300 feet of frontage along El Camino Real, a minimum of 50% of the parcel 
frontage (measured in linear feet) must meet this requirement. Residential entryways, 
lobbies, and other accessory uses related to upper story residential are permitted. (Page 51 
of HSAP):
-
Residential buildings on El Camino Real are exempt from the HSAP requirements. 
-
In no case shall blank walls be permitted on buildings facing El Camino Real. (Page 69 of 
HSAP):
•
Laurel Creek Guidelines & Standards (page 79-80 of HSAP).
-
Buildings shall be set back from Laurel Creek consistent with the City’s General Plan and 
zoning regulations. 
-
This setback should be designed as a passive park-like setting, which could include trails, and 
be publicly accessible. 
-
No solid fencing should be installed along the creek. This will ensure an open and safe 
environment. If fencing is required, the fence should be designed with visibility in mind, 
using high-quality materials, and be a maximum of 4 feet in height. 
-
Development should orient windows and entries to face the creek to provide “natural 
surveillance” on the creek throughout the day. 
-
In order to reinforce the identity of the creek, a monument sign highlighting the presence of 
Laurel Creek should be erected in a location that is clearly visible to pedestrians. 
-
The sign should not be so large or placed in a location that presents a visual distraction or 
obstruction for residents, pedestrians, or drivers. 
•
Pedestrian Paseos (El Camino Real) (page 70-80 of HSAP)
-
Mixed-use and residential development on parcels more than 300 feet deep on the east side 
of El Camino Real must provide a north-west pedestrian path at least 20 feet wide. The 
pathway shall have lighting consistent with pedestrian-scale lighting proposed on El Camino 
Real, and include pedestrian amenities similar to those found on public sidewalks. 
-
Pedestrian paseos are required for “[m]ixed-use and residential development on parcels 
more than 300 feet deep on the east side of El Camino Real” 
350 of 551

--- page 351 ---
•
Streetscape standards (page 73 of HSAP)
-
Street trees shall be planted along both streets in the Station Area at consistency intervals of 
20 to 30 feet. 
-
In order to complement El Camino Real and create a cohesive character for the Station Area, 
tree species should be the species recommended by the City’s Street Tree Master Plan. 
-
Trees should be planted in grates that are ADA compliant, such that the grates do not 
present any obstacle for persons with mobility impediments. 
-
These standards do not apply to streets internal to the Hillsdale Shopping Center. 
Landscaping improvements on these streets should be part of a landscape master plan for 
the Shopping Center. 
•
Street Furniture and Street Lights (page 73 of HSAP).
-
Street furniture and street lights shall be provided as described for the Station Area in A. 
Station Area Sidewalks. 
-
Pedestrian amenities must be strategically located to ensure ADA compliance and a clear 
path of travel for pedestrians. 
•
Station Area Sidewalks (Page 68 and 69 of HSAP):
-
Edge Zone The edge zone should create a clear end to the vehicle realm and transition to 
the pedestrian realm. 
-
Furnishing Zone The furnishing zone should be a minimum of 3 feet in width, including space 
for street trees, street furniture, and lights. To the extent possible, street furniture such as 
newspaper racks should be grouped to keep space clear for pedestrian travel. 
-
Throughway Zone The throughway zone should be a minimum of 5 feet in width and free of 
all obstructions to meet ADA requirements for pedestrian travel. Where sidewalks are wider 
than 8 feet total, it should be a minimum of 50% of the total sidewalk width, or 5 feet, 
whichever is greater. 
-
Frontage Zone The frontage zone should be used by businesses to engage passers-by and 
provide items of visual interest. The frontage zone should be a minimum of 2 feet in width. 
•
Hillsdale Shopping Center Development Guidelines (Page 80 and 81 of HSAP):
Pedestrian Bridge 
-
Consider modifications to the pedestrian/retail bridge over 31st Avenue to allow for better 
visual connections to the street below, and light to the street below, and for more light 
down to street level. 
-
Consider installation of enhanced crosswalk treatments, such as lighted cross-walks, to 
increase the visibility of pedestrians crossing the street. 
Buildings 
-
All new or remodeled buildings should be pedestrian-scale and designed to add visual 
interest to the street. 
-
Entries to retail uses should open onto the sidewalk where possible. 
-
In order to complement El Camino Real and create a cohesive character for the Station Area, 
buildings should be well-designed and follow the guidelines from the El Camino Real Master 
Plan. In general, blank ground floor building walls should be avoided while design elements 
that heighten visibility and transparency are strongly encouraged. 
-
New buildings are strongly encouraged to be constructed on existing surface parking areas 
that front the street in order to reduce the visual prominence of parking lots. 
351 of 551

--- page 352 ---
-
The bookends of the existing parking structure are encouraged to be redesigned as retail 
uses with at least a 40- foot depth. 
•
Policy TRA-1.1: Integrate and connect the Station Area street system with the surrounding City 
streets, including tying into the grid system established in Bay Meadows Phase II.
•
Policy TRA-1.2: Provide Station Area streets that support multiple modes of travel, while 
incorporating the functional typology and design consistent with maintaining adjacent uses.
•
Policy TRA-4.1: New development on properties in the Station Area must develop a Trip 
Reduction and Parking Management Program, following the recommendations in Appendix A of 
this Plan, including implementing the required and optional measures for both employers and 
residential developments.  The Hillsdale Shopping Center shall complete such a program, but 
may make implementation optional for employers that are tenants of the Shopping Center.
•
Policy TRA-4.2: Expand the Transportation Management Association (TMA) formed under the 
Rail Corridor Plan to include all properties within the Station Area and require that all new 
development join the TMA.  The Hillsdale Shopping Center’s participation in the TMA will consist 
of optional measures, but it will not be subject to the TMA’s trip reduction goals.
•
Policy TRA-5.1: Link the pedestrian and bicycle circulation system within the Station Area to the 
existing and planned city-wide and regional pedestrian and bicycle circulation facilities, including 
connecting to residential areas west of El Camino Real and south of Hillsdale Boulevard.  
•
Policy TRA-5.2: Create internal connections within the Station Area that maximize safe and 
appealing pedestrian-oriented circulation through the incorporation of design elements such as 
pedestrian-oriented lighting, wide landscaped sidewalks, curb extensions at intersections, and 
on-street parking to buffer pedestrians from vehicles.  Where feasible, as parcels are developed, 
add through-block pedestrian connections within the internal circulation of larger properties to 
create a finer-grained circulation pattern west of El Camino Real. 
•
Policy TRA-5.3: Promote increased east-west bicycle circulation through the Station Area by 
supporting the development of new bicycle facilities along 28th Avenue.  If feasible, support the 
development of new bicycle facilities on 31st Avenue, in conjunction with redevelopment of 
that portion of the Hillsdale Shopping Center.  The latter would only be considered feasible if a 
configuration can be developed that balances auto, bicycle, and pedestrian circulation on 31st 
Avenue.
•
Policy TRA-7.6: Conduct an evaluation of the City’s Building Security Code requirement for 
parking garages serving residential uses to have electrically operated closures separating 
resident and visitor parking. Examine best practices of other jurisdictions for alternative means 
that would allow for less restrictive access while still ensuring resident security.
•
Policy INF-1.1: Ensure that private development provides its fair share of funding for necessary 
improvements to infrastructure in the Station Area.
•
Policy INF-2.1: Ensure that water supply infrastructure and wastewater infrastructure are 
developed in advance of new development in the Station Area.
•
Policy INF-2.2: As downstream improvements are constructed with modifications to the railway, 
capacity should accommodate the potential redevelopment in the Station Area.  Facilities 
should not be sized for a lower capacity than the existing adjacent facilities.  Larger sized water 
lines could be placed in the potential roadway connections at the grade separations if the 
roadway connection projects are tied to the railway improvements.
•
Policy INF-3.1 Ensure that new development meets or exceeds storm drainage requirements, 
with a focus on providing green infrastructure solutions for stormwater management.
352 of 551

--- page 353 ---
•
Policy INF-3.2 Work with developers and the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control 
Board to encourage innovative treatment and detention methods, particularly methods that 
reduce the need for on-site mitigation.
•
Policy INF-4.1 Work with City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation as well as regional open space 
providers to ensure that Station Area residents have access to sufficient park areas, most of 
which are outside of the Station Area.  Access includes bicycle and pedestrian connections that 
are clear, as well as signage so that residents and visitors know where parks are located.
•
(Page 118) No subdivision map, use permit, design review application, or other entitlements will 
be issued for development projects in the Station Area until a finding has been made that the 
proposed project is consistent with this Station Area Plan.
•
(Page 122) Notwithstanding these findings, as redevelopment in the Station Area occurs, the 
City should continue to monitor the needs and status of local small businesses through its 
Economic Development and Business Assistance department.  o subdivision map, use permit, 
design review application, or other entitlements will be issued for development projects in the 
Station Area until a finding has been made that the proposed project is consistent with this 
Station Area Plan.
EL CAMINO REAL CORRIDOR PLAN
The El Camino Real Corridor Plan was adopted in 2001, and the following policies of Plan may be 
applicable to the project.
 
•
Gen 1.1.2: Side walls that do not front a side street may be without window or door openings, 
but should not be left "blank" if directly visible from El Camino. Visible side walls should be 
attractively finished with a considerate choice of materials and or color, or as a location for a 
special feature such as a mural. The facade treatment should be continued around the corner of 
the building for a minimum dimension of an expressed structural or architectural bay. 
•
Gen 1.1.3: In order to create a visually interesting environment and make interior building space 
visible to the street, clear glass display windows and entries containing glazing should comprise 
a minimum of 50% of the ground floor wall area. The use of reflective or dark tinted glass is 
discouraged, especially at the ground level. For the portion of the facade above the ground 
floor, glass curtain walls exceeding the width of the structural bays, horizontal ribbon windows 
and mirrored glass are discouraged. 
•
Gen 1.3.1: In order to provide valuable navigational information when moving along El Camino, 
at least one customer entry should be directly visible from the street. 
•
Gen 1.3.2: Buildings should have storefront entries directly accessible from El Camino Real. 
Buildings with the main entry on the side should include architectural elements that make the 
entry visible from El Camino and include a sidewalk from the street to the entry. Ground floor 
lighting and displays that effectively draw people into the interior space are strongly 
encouraged. Corner buildings, including those that front both a public sidewalk and a surface 
parking area, should have corner features which may include entries, architectural features, etc. 
(This guideline is especially important for buildings located at theme intersections.) Buildings set 
353 of 551

--- page 354 ---
back from the street edge should provide a pedestrian walkway from the sidewalk on El Camino 
Real to the entry frontage. 
•
Gen 1.5.3: Parapets should be provided to hide flat roofs and roof mounted equipment. The 
parapet can be designed, secondarily, as a decorative element or to provide a location for a sign 
as long as the design is compatible with the architecture of the entire building. 
•
Gen 2.1.1: In order to maintain a 10-foot effective sidewalk width along El Camino, buildings less 
than two stories should be set back from the El Camino property line sufficient to create 10 feet 
of effective sidewalk width inclusive of the existing width of the public sidewalk (measured from 
the back-of-curb to the property line). However, if the setback creates a hardship which can be 
proved by the applicant, the City may mitigate the hardship by reducing the width of the 
setback. 
•
Gen 2.1.2: Tree wells with ADA compatible metal grates should be consistently located within 
the effective sidewalk area adjacent to the buildings. Refer to the Streetscape Plan for 
recommended tree species within the effective sidewalk. 
•
Gen 2.1.3: At transit stops, pedestrian amenities as listed in the Streetscape Plan such as transit 
shelters, benches, lighting and trash receptacles should be provided. When such pedestrian 
amenities are included within the effective sidewalk width area, a minimum 5-foot wide path of 
travel measured from the back-of-curb shall be kept unobstructed for pedestrian movement. 
•
Gen 2.2.1: Buildings above two stories should be set back 10 feet from property line along El 
Camino Real. 
•
Gen 2.2.2: The 10 ft. effective sidewalk width consistent with Gen 2.1.1 - Gen 2.2.3 should be 
provided along the El Camino Real frontage. 
•
Gen 2.2.3: For buildings over two stories, the 10-foot setback from the property line extends 
beyond the minimum 10-foot effective sidewalk width. This required setback beyond the 10- 
foot effective sidewalk width should be landscaped in a manner consistent with the project and 
the landscape treatment adopted by the Streetscape Plan. Areas adjacent to building entries 
and display windows should be designed predominantly as a hardscape area for gathering and 
outdoor commercial activity with accent planters, raised beds, benches and/or other types of 
pedestrian amenities. 
•
Gen 2.4.1: Setbacks for surface parking lots and parking structures must create both an effective 
sidewalk width of 10 feet and a required 6 foot landscape setback (per Zoning Ordinance) 
behind the 10’ effective sidewalk. However, if the 6’ landscape setback creates a hardship 
(which can be proved by the applicant), the City may mitigate the hardship by reducing the 
width of the parking landscape setback. 
•
Gen 2.4.2: The 6-foot landscape setback for surface parking areas should be planted with 
species compatible with the Streetscape Plan to provide a strong visual edge along the street. A 
low wall at a height convenient for sitting, trellises, and low growing shrubs (max. 24 inches in 
height) can also provide a very effective way to screen the lower portion of parked cars from the 
354 of 551

--- page 355 ---
sidewalk. Access between surface parking areas and the public sidewalk should be provided at 
regular intervals along the parking frontage. 
•
Gen 2.5.1: A minimum of 50% of the total property line frontage on El Camino should be 
occupied by buildings located along the setback line. The building may only be set behind the 
setback line if the additional setback provides a public amenity such as a wider sidewalk, 
outdoor seating or outdoor dining, etc. If a building is to be set back beyond the recommended 
dimension, it is recommended that the setback not exceed 20 feet along El Camino, in order to 
create a comfortable pedestrian environment. It is recommended that building frontage at the 
setback line be contiguous, although the individual building facades may be articulated. 
•
Gen 2.5.2: For corner parcels, the building should continue at the side street setback line for a 
minimum of 50% of property frontage. In the case of shallow parcels, the 50% building frontage 
requirement may be reduced to accommodate necessary parking access from the side street. 
•
Gen 3.1.2: Buildings taller than two stories should step back above the second story to provide 
sculpting of the overall form as viewed from the street. 
•
Gen 3.2.3: Buildings should generally be oriented parallel to the El Camino right-of-way. The 
building facade may be angled, if it creates an opportunity for usable public space and/or 
enhances the building design. 
•
Gen 4.1.1: Surface parking area, including driveways, should not occupy more than 50% of a 
property frontage along El Camino. 
•
Gen 4.4.1: Open parking areas should have a 6’ landscape buffer along street frontages and 
adjacent residential areas. At least 10 percent of open parking areas should be landscaped with 
islands of minimum 5’ width be provided after every 10 parking spaces. Lots should have one 
tree planted for every three parking spaces, not including the street trees within the effective 
sidewalk. Planting areas should be protected from common vehicular traffic with a six-inch 
concrete curb. 
•
Gen 4.4.2: Tree species should be compatible with the list of recommended sidewalk tree trees 
in the Streetscape Plan. 
•
Gen 4.4.3: Ground level landscaping within surface parking areas should be less than 18-24 
inches to allow sight lines for vehicular and pedestrian safety. 
•
Gen 5.1.3: Multi-tenant buildings shall have a coordinated sign program. All signs within a single 
development shall have coordinated design placement and fabrication concept as part of a 
“Planned Signing District” and architectural review process. Individual tenant signs may be 
located on individual storefronts, over display windows and at entries and generally should be 
part of a master sign program for the entire building/complex. These sign elements may include 
projecting ("fin") signs, awning located signs, or, smaller, surface mounted signs. Painted and 
placard window signs are allowed such that they do not exceed a maximum of 25% coverage of 
the glazing and are compatible with the colors and materials of the building. Signs located within 
355 of 551

--- page 356 ---
windows should be located at the lower portion of the window to allow visibility into the 
businesses. 
•
Gen 5.2.1: Monument signs are the preferred sign type for businesses, which have driveway 
entrances along El Camino. The signs are encouraged to be low profile so they do not block sight 
lines for vehicles entering and exiting parking areas. The height of monument signs should be 
limited to 5 feet to allow pedestrians to see over the sign to the building. Monument signs 
should have architectural features consistent with the building and should not be internally 
illuminated. 
•
Gen 5.2.4: Signs can be located on the window glazing, but should be limited to 25% of the 
window area and should be compatible with the colors and materials of the building. Sign 
boards located in window display areas should be included in the 25% maximum. The preferred 
location for store hours is on the entry door as opposed to the display windows. 
•
Gen 5.2.5: The use of awnings for primary signage is discouraged. If a sign is to be located on an 
awning, it should be restricted to no more than 25% of the fabric area of the awning. Awning 
signs are considered more appropriate on the vertical portion, or “flap.” Signage on the sloped 
area is difficult to read, and should be limited to graphic images or logos as opposed to words. 
•
Gen 5.2.6: At present, the zoning ordinance (25.20-4) permits freestanding signs in C and M 
districts of a maximum size of 40 square feet on lots up to 50 feet in width to a height not to 
exceed 15 feet, with all signs over 8 feet requiring approval of a Site Plan and Architectural 
Review. Lots over 50 feet in width are permitted an additional sign area of 0.35 sq. ft/1 ft of 
frontage to a maximum size of 75 square feet and additional height of 0.1 ft/1 ft. of frontage to 
a maximum height of 25 feet. 
•
TI-4: Where buildings are on a corner lot, the 10-foot effective sidewalk setback (GEN-2.1.1) 
should continue around the corner to the rear property line of the side street frontage. 
However, if the setback creates a hardship (which can be proved by the applicant), the City may 
mitigate the hardship by reducing the width of the setback. Buildings at theme intersections are 
encouraged to provide a corner setback in addition to the effective sidewalk width. The setback 
area should be predominately hardscape with amenities such as attractive window displays, 
seating, shade and special lighting. 
•
ECR 4-1: Buildings within Hillsdale Shopping Center do not need to be located such that 50% of 
the building facades lie along the setback line. 
•
ECR 4-2: Well-designed surface parking lots and parking structures can occupy more than 50% of 
the setback frontage. 
•
ECR 4-3: Recognizing that Hillsdale is a regional shopping center that relies on automobile 
access, and has a landscaping buffer along El Camino Real, the 10-foot effective sidewalk width 
may be reduced. However, the ADA minimum of a 5’ unobstructed path of movement should be 
maintained at all times. 
356 of 551

--- page 357 ---
ZONING ORDINANCE (MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 27)
The following Code sections are related to the Hillsdale Station Area Plan.
•
SMMC Chapter 27.92 – Hillsdale Station Area Plan codifies development standards for Hillsdale 
Station Area Plan and outlines the relationships to other laws. Specifically, it states that “in the 
event of a conflict between the terms, conditions, requirements, or policies of the Hillsdale 
Station Area Plan and the San Mateo City Zoning Code, the Hillsdale Station Area Plan shall 
govern.” Zoning Ordinance identifies the permitted uses and special uses in Hillsdale Station 
Area Plan area shall follow the applicable zoning districts’ standards. 
However, the eastern half of the site along El Camino Real is designated as Mixed-Use High and 
the western half of the site is designated as Mixed-Use Medium II in General Plan 2040, while 
corresponding zoning district and development standards have not yet established. Therefore, 
the uses, densities, intensities and height specified in the General Plan shall control, pursuant to 
SMMC Section 27.02.220. 
•
SMMC Section 27.60.180(e) - Q5 Overlay District identifies the development standards and 
procedures for Hillsdale Mall area. Hillsdale main shopping site is identified as Sub-Area B and 
Sub-Area C. When 75% or more demolition or redevelopment of structures (including parking 
structures) occurs in any sub-areas, a comprehensive master plan for such sub-areas in 
consistent with the El Camino Real Master Plan and Hillsdale Station Area Plan is required. The 
development is required to meet the findings in Zoning Ordinance. 
357 of 551

--- page 358 ---
10/29/25, 11:42 AM Hillsdale Redevelopment -- Comments - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

Hillsdale Redevelopment -- Comments

or

Date Tue 4/22/2025 3:04 PM
To Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello Ms. Ling,

| am a resident of San Mateo Village and live very near to Hillsdale Mall. | had a few comments about
the proposed development | hope you'll consider:

1. Traffic Access
The proposed plan appears to show vehicle access from El Camino Real (ECR) to new roads on 32nd
and 33rd, as well as North South extensions of Sailer Drive and Edison Lane.

As I'm sure you're aware, traffic on Hillsdale, in the evening especially, can be brutal. | believe creating
more arteries to bypass the ECR/Hillsdale interchange would reduce the walkability proposed by the
project, increase noise for residents, and likely endanger pedestrians crossing those new
thoroughfares.

2. Road Improvements
The roads in and around Hillsdale Mall (largely ECR and Hillsdale) are shoddy and in need of serious

attention, including structural and drainage upgrades to protect the Hillsdale underpass from
flooding. | would also suggest moving the traffic light from Hillsdale/W. Sailer to Hillsdale and Edison
Street. That intersection gets busy and has a lot of pedestrian access.

3. Community Benefits

In addition to the park the development proposes, what other public benefit space would the
developers consider? The southern part of San Mateo is missing public indoor recreation areas. |
think a public pool could be a very nice amenity. | would also suggest that their park area be
expanded and perhaps a playground added for residents. What about a public meeting space
available for free rent by the Community? Provision that requires some sort of private daycare
Operator? Could the developer designate an area for a Farmer's Market or regular Food Trucks that
support local business? The latter two items would increase business for the Mall as well.

4. Laurel Creek

This is a once in a lifetime opportunity to restore Laurel Creek on the south edge of the project. They
are proposing a bike lane, but this is an amazing opportunity to create green space and re daylight
the creek. In addition, whether by the project sponsor or the City, consideration should be given to
flood mitigation as large parts of the Village were flooded in 2021 by Laurel Creek.

5. Caltrain Access
While there's probably some reason for it, access to the Hillsdale Caltrain station is convoluted in that
you can't go more directly from the station through the parking lot of Michael's as a more direct

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane17 1/2
358 of 551


--- page 359 ---
route.  Maybe the project could consider improving that connection to make access more direct.
6. Mall Play Area
The current turf area in the Hillsdale North section is great for kids, even though it lacks any play
structures.  Kids love to run around, and most of them end up climbing/jumping off the decorative
rocks which isn't very safe.  It is very nice to give your kids an area to run around after a meal while the
parents finish up.  It would be nice to have another outdoor play area near the new restaurants but
that had more play-centered structures to entertain kids.
Thank you for passing along these comments.
Jared Willis 
10/29/25, 11:42 AM
Hillsdale Redevelopment -- Comments - Elaine Ling - Outlook
about:blank?windowId=SecondaryReadingPane17
2/2
359 of 551

--- page 360 ---
10/29/25, 11:40 AM Hillsdale Mall Meeting for Neighborhood - Elaine Ling - Outlook

Od Outlook
Hillsdale Mall Meeting for Neighborhood

or

Date Mon 2/24/2025 7:47 PM

ee
Cc Po Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>

Good Evening, Andrew

My name is Steve Moscaret and | live at], off of Edison St. My neighbors
and | has been working with Kohar Kojayan in regards to the proposed Hillsdale Mall
Redevelopment project. As you see from a map, we are your neighbors that will be most
affected by this redevelopment project. Kohar was trying to keep us informed and listen to our
concerns with the proposed plans. We were supposed to have a neighborhood meeting with
her this Thursday to review the plans and the impact it would have on our neighborhood both in
the final development as well as the phased construction. You have a lot of neighbors who have
a lot of questions. We have been informed tonight however that Kohar is no longer involved in
the project. This is very concerning to us as there has been no communication as to who her
replacement is and if our meeting is still on for this Thursday.

| am hoping the Bohannon Group does the right thing and continues to have the best interest of
its neighbors in mind and listens to our concerns as well.

Andrew, please get back to me on my mobile phone so we can determine if Thurday’s meeting
is still on (Several people have changed schedules to be in attendance) and how we move
forward from here.

Thanks

Steve Moscaret

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane20 1/1
360 of 551


--- page 361 ---
10/29/25, 11:42 AM Re: Neighborhood Concerms Re: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment & Beyond - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

Re: Neighborhood Concerns Re: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment & Beyond

Fron ae

Date Sat 4/12/2025 2:03 PM

To Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Po Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian
<akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Elaine Ling
<eling@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung Kwon <skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>

Zachary, thank you so much for getting back to us so quickly with our questions. Hopefully we can
work together on this ongoing project Michael Ragan.
Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 12, 2025, at 11:07 AM, Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Morning Lisa and Michael,

Following up on our phone conversations from earlier this week, please see the attached
responses to the questions that you sent earlier. Overall, while staff is still working with the
applicant to confirm the entitlement path for this project, there will still be ample opportunity
for the community to learn more about this proposal and engage before any decisions are
made. Here are few things to share with your network about how to engage with this project
moving forward and next steps:
e Avirtual neighborhood meeting for the project is scheduled for Tuesday, April 29 at
6:00 pm. In addition to the mailed notices, the meeting info will be posted on the
City’s meeting calendar and on the What's Happening page beginning of next week.
www.zoom.us/join Meeting ID: 841 5045 5560 Passcode: 242966
e The City has setup an email list for the Hillsdale Mall Project -
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4707/Email-Alerts-News. Please encourage
interested residents to sign up as this is a channel that staff will use to share project
updates as it moves forward through the review process.
e The Project’s What's Happening in Development Page will be actively maintained
with new information posted as it comes in. We’re also working to develop an FAQ
that will be added in the next few weeks.

City Council included as BCC.
Thanks, and have a nice weekend.

Zachary Dahl, AICP
Director, Community Development

From:
Sent: Thursday, March 27, 2025 11:25 AM

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane16 1/2
361 of 551


--- page 362 ---
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah
<prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Neighborhood Concerns Re: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment & Beyond
 
 
All, 
 
Attached are points in no particular order that were brought up at the March
Beresford Hillsdale Neighborhood Association meeting in regard to concerns over
the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment and other redevelopments impacting San Mateo's
Highway 92 access. The Mayor and Councilmember Loraine asked for this
information, which we feel is also critical to share with the rest of you.
It should be noted that since the Mayor said there are 6 projects under application
who have submitted utilizing Senate Bill 330, this is concerning due to the following: 
Fee and Standard Freeze - 
Upon submitting a preliminary application and paying the permit processing fee,
developers can "freeze" the fees and development standards that apply to their
project. 
Preventing New Regulations -
This "freeze" prevents local governments from applying newly enacted ordinances,
policies, or standards to the project after the preliminary application was submitted. 
It has been expressed by residents that the feeling is that demands placed on
current staff are too great, and that they have neither the time nor level of expertise
that the developers likely have with their own land use attorneys.  The City is urged
to invest to protect themselves and get the most out of these projects before it is too
late.
 
Sincerely,
 
The BHNA Board 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure.
If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or
copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return
e mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank
you.
<Hillsdale Project BHNA Questions with Staff Responses 4.11.25.pdf>
10/29/25, 11:42 AM
Re: Neighborhood Concerns Re: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment & Beyond - Elaine Ling - Outlook
about:blank?windowId=SecondaryReadingPane16
2/2
362 of 551

--- page 363 ---
10/29/25, 11:43 AM Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment

For

Date Fri 4/11/2025 11:33 AM
To Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Ms Ling,

| recently heard of the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment. | am a Nordstrom employee in the Mall. Many of
our customers come from San Francisco and the East Bay, since the Nordstroms closure.

Many workers in the Mall will lose their jobs. | will lose my job! Hillsdale is a gathering place for families
and students. Traffic will be greatly impacted. This redevelopment will be a disservice to the community.

| understand there is a shortage of housing. However, | oppose the excessive large scale of proposed
Commercial, Office Spaces and residential development. Please consider keeping the majority of the
Mall and reducing the proposed residential, Commercial and Office Spaces. Please consider looking into
other San Mateo areas for residential development.

Will there be any more hearings in this matter? Thank you.

Sincerely,
Liz Lowe, Concerned Hillsdale Mall Employee

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane14 1/1
363 of 551


--- page 364 ---
10/29/25, 11:43 AM Opposed to the proposed development of the Hillsdale Mall Property - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

Opposed to the proposed development of the Hillsdale Mall Property

Form

Date Wed 4/30/2025 5:23 PM
To Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Commissioners,

| want to voice my opposition to the proposed redevelopment of the Hillsdale Mall.

| am a homeowner in The Village and the proposed development will have a direct impact on my
home from increased traffic on Hillsdale,overall congestion in the surrounding area, and

other stressors on our water and school infrastructure.

How will we support the additional students for schools both K-8 and for Hillsdale High School that |
don't feel is getting enough attention. We are already struggling with teachers and having one of the
lowest paying districts in the area.

In addition, only setting a 15% for low income housing does not help the unaffordability of San Mateo
currently. Getting into a rental or a condo/home is impossible today for my kids when
condo/townhomes are going for 1M or more.

| am particularly opposed to the 8 to 10 story office space. Even the buildings that are on the other
side of El Camino are not that high. This is a ridiculous height for San Mateo, when we do not have
many buildings of that size currently. Again going back to my traffic issue.

My second opposition is the 5-8 story multi-family that hits on the same points above about it being
too high and too much for the infrastructure that we currently have to support.

| know the argument is that it is on the rail corridor but let's be honest with ourselves and know that
only 1020% of people will use the train. And since the train station moved from being right across the
street to 2 blocks down El Camino there will be less incentive to walk to the train.

This is a money grab by the developer to pack as much as they can into this space to get the most
money out of the development and it does not matter to them the real impacts to the surrounding
areas. They throw in there will be "1991" more parking spaces but what is the calculation of 2 cars per
unit and then the retail slots needed to support the shopper and the office parking? | don't see how
that is enough space to accommodate the density they are proposing.

Lastly, what is the impact to water usage with this development? We are in multi-year drought cycles
and you want to add more pressure in the water usage required for office buildings and a massive
home development.

This needs to be scaled down significantly in my opinion based on the facts listed above.

Regards
Liz Magnee-Schalch

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane19 1/1
364 of 551


--- page 365 ---
10/30/25, 3:51 PM FW: Redevelopment of Hillsdale Mall - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

FW: Redevelopment of Hillsdale Mall

From Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org>
Date Mon 10/27/2025 10:03 AM

To Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung H. Kwon <skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc = Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi all,

Please see the comment below. This should be added as public comment to the item for the Nov. 3
meeting.

Thank you!
Chantal

From: Jennifer Robertson

Sent: Sunday, October 26, 2025 5:12 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Redevelopment of Hillsdale Mall

Hello,

Unfortunately, | may not be able to make the November 3rd meeting, but would like to voice my
concern.

The traffic is already horrible in this area. Having these new proposed apartments and condos may create
a traffic nightmare. | realize the train station is nearby but a lot of times people are not going someplace
that would require the train. There are many people here that cannot just walk to their destinations, like
going to Foster City or downtown San Mateo. These places would not require a train ride. Also plenty of
younger people with families that have kids that need to use their cars for many different reasons, school
activities, appointments, etc.

If the train and/or buses are the answer then why are we having a problem with traffic now?
| would love to hear thoughts on how this traffic issue would be addressed.
Thank you for your time and | look forward to hearing your response.

Jennifer Robertson

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane17 1/1
365 of 551


--- page 366 ---
10/30/25, 3:52 PM Public Comments - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

FW: Hillsdale Mall

From Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org>
Date Wed 10/29/2025 10:49 AM

To Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung H. Kwon <skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc = Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear all,
Please see the comment below.
| will add this as public comment to the 11/3 item.

Best,
Chantal

From:

Sent: Wednesday, October 29, 2025 10:44 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall

To Whom it May Concern,

Is there any chance on God's green earth that we can do
anything to STOP the demolition of Hillsdale Mall? Are we, as
they say, SOL now? So many people want to keep the Mall for
so many of the right reasons.
gloria Laterza

https://outlook.office.com/mail/AAMkAGJmODIhYZMOLTBhM2MtNDQ3MS1 tie aentarteaadeninhrhaialainhlaimaierme dna aie) se . WM
366 of 551


--- page 367 ---
10/30/25, 3:52 PM Public Comments - Elaine Ling - Outlook

# Outlook

FW: Pro-growth, pro-community stance on Hillsdale Mall redevelopment

From Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org>
Date Wed 10/29/2025 1:15 PM

To Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sung H. Kwon <skwon@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc = Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina
Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi all,
Please see comment below, this will be added to the item for 11/3.

Best,
Chantal

From: Sara Kinsey

Sent: Wednesday, October 29, 2025 1:14 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Pro-growth, pro-community stance on Hillsdale Mall redevelopment

Dear Mayor and Councilmembers,

| support growth in San Mateo. | am not a “not in my backyard” voice. Our city needs to evolve to
meet the needs of residents and businesses. My concern is making sure the Hillsdale Mall
redevelopment truly balances community outcomes with investor returns.

Please condition any approvals on clear, enforceable public benefits with the ability to re evaluate as
the years progress towards project start and completion. Here is what | ask you to consider and push
for:

1. Housing that matches our needs

e Deliver housing before or in lock step with any new office. Tie office certificates of occupancy to
housing delivery.

e Include meaningful on site affordability beyond state minimums. Prioritize family sized units and
teacher, nurse, and city worker eligibility.

e Step down height and massing at neighborhood edges. Protect sunlight, privacy, and wind
comfort.

2. Mobility and traffic that actually works

e Independent peer review of the traffic study. Publish assumptions and mitigation triggers.

e Fund near term fixes on El Camino, Hillsdale, and 92 on and off ramps. Add protected bike
lanes and safe crossings to Caltrain and schools.

e Areal Transportation Demand Management plan with unbundled parking, transit subsidies, bike
parking, and car lite design. Monitor and adjust targets are missed.

https://outlook.office.com/mail/AAMkAGJmODIhYZMOLTBhM2MtNDQ3MS1 tie aint deninhnheialainhlaiaierme dna aie) ae 1/2
367 of 551


--- page 368 ---
3. Community-serving retail and daily needs
Secure a grocery covenant with minimum square footage and price point appropriate to local
families.
Require a retail mix that serves everyday needs, not only luxury. Protect small businesses with
fair lease terms and phased relocation options.
4. Public benefits that are guaranteed, not “hoped for”
Use a binding Development Agreement with measurable milestones, performance bonds, and
penalties for non delivery.
Parks, trees, and publicly accessible open space with year round programming.
Childcare, youth, and senior space on site.
5. Accountability over time
Phase approvals. No next phase until the prior phase meets housing, mobility, and public
benefit targets.
Create a community advisory committee that meets quarterly and can trigger corrective actions
if metrics slip.
I want San Mateo to grow, to welcome new neighbors, to keep families here, and to remain a place we
are proud to call home. Please make sure this project earns its height and density by delivering
concrete, enforceable community benefits, not just a slide deck and promises.
Thank you for your service and for insisting on a growth plan that works for residents, small
businesses, and the next generation.
Sincerely,
Sara Kinsey
Home owner 
San Mateo, CA
--
_________________________________
Sara Kinsey
10/30/25, 3:52 PM
Public Comments - Elaine Ling - Outlook
https://outlook.office.com/mail/AAMkAGJmODlhYzM0LTBhM2MtNDQ3MS1iMGQ4LTcxY2QxOGEwYjVkNAAuAAAAAADeiT2SjQNpTaYmrpILtBhvAQA…
2/2
368 of 551

--- page 369 ---
Outlook
HLC Comment Letter - Hillsdale Reimagined
From Ken Chan 
Date Thu 10/30/2025 1:50 PM
To
City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
1 attachment (126 KB)
Hillsdale Reimagined Comment Letter - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County.pdf;
Dear San Mateo City Council Members,
Please see the attached letter regarding the Hillsdale Reimagined letter, which is set for discussion at
the November 3 City Council meeting.
Kind Regards,
Ken Chan
--
Ken Chan (he/him)
Senior Organizer
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Schedule a meeting with me
www.hlcsmc.org
369 of 551

--- page 370 ---
HOUSING
LEADERSHIP

COUNCIL
October 20, 2025

San Mateo City Council
City Hall

330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Hillsdale Reimagined Comment Letter - Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo
County

Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,

The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County. We work with our communities and their
leaders to produce and preserve quality affordable homes.

On behalf of HLC, | would first like to commend the David D. Bohanon Organization’s continued
transparency and willingness to receive input from San Mateo residents. This approach has led
to the inclusion of 1,670 new homes, including 250 affordable homes in their Hillsdale
Reimagined proposal.

These homes are ideally located near local shops, parks and green space, and the Hayward
Park Caltrain transit station. Having both jobs and homes in transit-rich spaces like this reduces
the need for driving and allows for better employment opportunities for San Mateo community
members who rely on public transit. Less commuting leaves more time for health, family, and,
most importantly, community. A community where children have a better chance of succeeding
in school, finding a job, and building their own strong families in San Mateo.

Thank you for your continued leadership, and we urge you to support a proposal that allows for
the greatest feasible number of (especially affordable) homes.

Sincerely,

Ken Chan
Senior Organizer

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403 + (650) 242-1764 + hicsmc.org

370 of 551


--- page 371 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
POST PACKET 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
As of November 3, 2025, at 4:00 PM 
371 of 551

--- page 372 ---
From:
Marina Afanasieff
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 12:54:26 PM
Dear Council Members,
You must seriously reconsider approving the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment. This will be very detrimental to all the
community & surrounding communities. Loss of our beloved retail, goods & services, loss of so many jobs with
people working there & the traffic will be more horrendous than it is already. PLEASE RECONSIDER & SAVE
OUR BELOVED SHOPPING MALL!!!
-Marina Afanasieff (53 Year Resident)
Sent from my iPhone
372 of 551

--- page 373 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Elaine Ling; Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Christina Horrisberger; Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale development
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 9:25:09 AM
Good morning,
Please see comment below.
Best,
Chantal
-----Original Message-----
From: j b 
Sent: Thursday, October 30, 2025 11:00 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale development
There is a need for a grocery store in conjunction with this development. Residents able to walk to a grocery store
for their needs is extremely important.
I would never support this tremendous development without this added necessity.
Too far for seniors and disabled residents to walk for daily necessities.
James Baker
Sent from my iPhone
373 of 551

--- page 374 ---
From:
Maggie Bobbin
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Agenda item 13: Hillsdale Mall redevelopment application
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 12:37:36 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council,
I am writing to you in support of the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment
application. San Mateo needs additional housing units to support the
population here. Additionally, the location is ideal as it is very
close to the Hillsdale caltrain station and provides easy
transportation for the future residents. I would ask that additional
bike lane infrastructure be included on El Camino and that safer
pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure be provided to connect the
development to the caltrain station and the proposed bike lanes on
delaware. The current proposal also includes unnecessary amounts of
parking that could instead support additional units. I would like to
see fewer parking spots included in these plans to support the
inclusion of more units, particularly because of the close proximity
to the Caltrain station.
Best,
Maggie Bobbin
374 of 551

--- page 375 ---
From:
Rick Bonilla
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Zachary Dahl
Subject:
Hillsdale Shopping Center Redevelopment proposal
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 10:17:58 AM
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 The Hillsdale Reimagined proposal represents exactly the forward-looking, sustainable
development San Mateo should be embracing. It would bring much-needed new housing,
support high-quality union jobs, and place both where they belong—right next to
major transit options. 
 This project would deliver up to 1,670 new homes on a site that currently provides
none. Concentrating new homes and employment opportunities beside the Hillsdale
Caltrain Station is smart planning: it reduces traffic, strengthens public transit use,
and meaningfully lowers greenhouse-gas emissions. The development not only
meets but exceeds San Mateo’s Housing Element targets for this location, advancing
our adopted plan to place homes near transit. Importantly, it also includes affordable
housing and new public spaces that will serve the entire community. 
 Some residents have cited a supposed “five-to-one” jobs-to-housing ratio, but that
figure is misleading. The 2.1 million square feet of commercial space referenced
reflects gross building area—including parking, lobbies, and other non-office space—
and a portion of the project includes retail, not office uses. Regardless, a balanced
community benefits from having both homes and workplaces located near high-
quality transit. 
 Across the country, malls are declining as shopping patterns change. Cities that fail
to adapt are left with empty properties and lost gathering places. Moving forward with
this plan allows Hillsdale to evolve into a vibrant, mixed-use neighborhood instead of
falling into disuse. 
 Hillsdale Reimagined is exactly the type of thoughtful, future-positive investment San
Mateo needs if we are to evolve and thrive in this 21st century and beyond. 
 Sincerely,
 Rick Bonilla 
San Mateo Resident, former Council Member and Mayor
375 of 551

--- page 376 ---
From:
David Brownman
To:
Elaine Ling
Cc:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Feedback
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 10:08:16 AM
Dear City Council,
My name is David and my wife and I have lived here in San Mateo since 2021. We're a short,
5 min walk from Hillsdale Mall and visit it often. Between shopping and restaurants, we're
there at least weekly.
I'm writing to voice my tentative support for the "Hillsdale Reimagined" project that the
council will be evaluating this week. I like how much housing their plan includes and I like
that they're prioritizing walkable space. Third spaces are the heart of a community and I think
this development, once complete, will serve that purpose well. 
I also like the idea of building more densely along transit corridors, which their plan does well.
Most importantly, their plan includes a good amount of housing, which will hopefully infuse
our expensive housing market with some much needed density. 
That said, there are a couple of design elements that I'd like to see improved. 
Firstly, there's a lot of office space in the current plan. I understand that high commercial rents
help subsidize the rest of the project. But, business districts are empty on evenings and
weekends. I worry that devoting too much square footage for offices will make our new
development feel abandoned outside the work week. It would be nice to repurpose some of the
proposed space for retail and housing. 
Secondly, I'm a little concerned with the amount of interior roads on the project. While some
roads are necessary to service the residences and businesses, pedestrian-only spaces are so
much more pleasant to use, when possible. Rather than routing roads through the
development, where mall goers will need to cross streets to access other parts of the mall, I'd
love a larger focus on  roads around the development and underground tunnels/parking where
possible. We have the opportunity to really lead the way in car-free and car-minimal spaces
and I hope we can take charge here. Plus, minimizing pedestrian crossings would support the
Vision Zero goals in the city's general plan. 
Lastly, I cannot stress the importance of Trader Joe's enough. Having a grocery store within
walking distance is a huge boon to our neighborhood and I'm worried that the developers
 haven't locked them in as a new tenant yet. They've got to do everything in their power to
make sure TJ's sticks around, minimizing closure time where possible. Its loss would be
immeasurable, especially with all the beautiful new housing they're building. Give them free
rent if that's what it takes, but make it happen. Don't be forever thought of as "the project that
killed our TJ's". 
So, that's where I'm at: supportive of the project, excited for more density and housing. But
also, concerned about office space, pedestrian safety, and Trader Joe's. 
Thanks very much for reading and please don't hesitate to reach out if I can answer any
questions or provide more feedback.
376 of 551

--- page 377 ---
David Brownman
377 of 551

--- page 378 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Mall development
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 4:19:03 PM
 
 
From: A D 
 
Sent: Friday, October 31, 2025 2:50 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall development
 
Hello,
 
I am unable to attend the city hall session on Monday but was curious about how the
development will change the surrounding neighborhood around Hillsdale.
 
Currently if you take Hillsdale into Foster City, it appears the light system isn't timed for
the most efficient traffic control. Last Thursday at ~6p, the traffic issue mixed with most
likely a wreck on 92 resulted in it taking over 20 mins to get onto 101NB from George
Hall. If we add more traffic, I cannot imagine the gridlock it would cause just to try and
leave my house. Adding more traffic on Hillsdale is an utmost concern of mine and my
husband's. Do you have a plan already in place to navigate this situation?
 
I also express concern over the Hillsdale El Camino intersection that would be
absolutely wretched if it got any worse. I hope this intersection is planned for further
development with appropriate timed light systems. 
 
Will the development also prioritize local residents and businesses as opposed to large
corporations? I am hesitant to be supportive of developing buildings for large
corporations, even more so if they don't involve themselves within the community. In
order to build our community up, we really should be prioritizing local and small
businesses. 
 
I also express concern over developing large apartments. We moved in last year to be
closer to work, and were so happy we chose San Mateo as the sense of community is
pretty comparable to smaller rural towns that many bay area cities do not have. I really
worry that this increase of traffic and large buildings will ruin one of the greatest pros
about San Mateo. Unfortunately, I do see myself and my husband moving to a smaller
town outside of the bay area if this development does occur with negative
consequences for the community.
378 of 551

--- page 379 ---
Thanks,
 
Ashley Davie
 
379 of 551

--- page 380 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Elaine Ling; Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian; Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Agend item 13
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 9:46:05 AM
Kindly see the comment below.
Best,
Chantal
-----Original Message-----
From: Richard Delaney 
Sent: Friday, October 31, 2025 9:41 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Agend item 13
I live in San Mateo am familiar with the Hillsdale reimagined proposal. We need more housing and not more
Shopping space. This proposal fits the times and the city needs. Please vote for it.  
380 of 551

--- page 381 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Elaine Ling; Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian; Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Reimagined - agenda item 13
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 9:46:44 AM
Kindly see comment below.
 
Best,
Chantal
 
From: 
 
Sent: Friday, October 31, 2025 9:45 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Reimagined - agenda item 13
 
Dear Members the City Council –
 
As a 22-year resident of the Beresford-Hillsdale neighborhood, I strongly support the proposed
redevelopment of the Hillsdale Mall area. 
 
We desperately need housing, especially the affordable and missing middle housing that will
be provided.   Locating more affordable housing in a high opportunity area will help meet the
City’s mandate to affirmatively further fair housing.  We might even make a dent in our RHNA
and improve the Peninsula’s jobs/housing balance.
 
We need walkable neighborhoods, which requires high density housing proximate to transit. 
Locating housing here will reduce VMT and associated GHG and improve the quality of life for
those now commuting to Peninsula jobs. 
 
The project has been well designed through thoughtful public participation to serve and to
blend into the existing neighborhood.  I am grateful for the open public process used to design
the project.
 
Finally, the opportunity cost of not redeveloping this underutilized commercial space would
be huge.  Dense, transit adjacent housing with the proposed amenities is the highest and best
use for this space. 
 
Everything about this project makes sense.   
 
John Farrow
381 of 551

--- page 382 ---
From:
Rustard Mustard
To:
Rob Newsom; City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
ReImagine Hillsdale
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 10:07:46 AM
Dear Mayor and Council Members,
I am writing to voice my strong support for the proposed Hillsdale Mall
redevelopment and to share my enthusiasm for this transformative vision for our
community. This project represents a major step forward for San Mateo and aligns
with the city’s long-term goals for housing, economic growth, and thoughtful urban
planning. Additionally, there are a number of clear advantages such as direct access
to Caltrain and excellent regional connectivity via Highways 101 and 92. This makes
the location ideal for transit-oriented development. Another major advantage is the
contribution of more than 1600 homes that will far exceed the General Plan target
and also allows these homeowners easeful public transit-use decreasing vehicle use,
pollution and area traffic congestion. 
ReImagine Hillsdale has done an excellent job listening to the surrounding
community and adding their contributions to the home placement, preservation
areas and plaza ideas for the mall as well as well as being receptive to a food store
inclusion. 
I believe the City’s responsibilities to multi-modal connectivity with bikes,
pedestrians, driving and transit as well as providing a robust traffic demand
management and mitigation plan during and after construction will ensure the
tremendous success of this new development. It will be an exciting SB 330 project,
that will ensure timely progress much more quickly than in the past and will benefit
from streamlined approvals and legal protections.
San Mateo will be proud and grateful to the City Council as well as the City Staff
supporting this project.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Suzanne Flecker
382 of 551

--- page 383 ---
From:
James Ford
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Re: Agenda Item no. 13, Informational Hearing: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Application
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 3:00:34 PM
Attachments:
Comments on Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Proposal - 11.3.pdf
Dear City Council and City Clerk,
Please see the attached letter with my comments regarding Item 13 on tonight's council
agenda. 
Thanks, 
James Ford
383 of 551

--- page 384 ---
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
     As someone who grew up in San Mateo, I have wonderful memories of spending time at 
Hillsdale Mall with friends and family. From frantic last-minute holiday shopping at 
Nordstrom to building my first skateboard at Zumiez and spending lazy Sundays at the old 
food court (Hot Dog on a Stick, anyone?), I am truly grateful that this place was around 
when I was a teenager. I worry about the gradual loss of third spaces in this community, 
that is, places where people can congregate outside of work, school and home.  
     The proposed scale of this development is difficult to digest, especially when it involves 
a long-standing community benefit like the mall.  A flurry of questions arise – how will this 
impact the neighborhood feel? What about traffic on El Camino and West Hillsdale? Where 
will middle and high schoolers spend time if the mall is no longer there for them? These are 
all valid questions that deserve answers, and it is my hope that the Council will work with 
Bohannan and its partners to develop responses that work for San Mateans.  
     Taking a look at the mall today, consumers have voted with our wallets, choosing the 
convenience of online shopping over the in-person shopping experience. As a result, retail 
stores are struggling mightily, and many more storefronts at the mall stand vacant or see 
only temporary, seasonal use than in past years. At the same time, state legislators have 
passed new laws in the hopes of boosting housing development such as amendments to 
the Housing Accountability Act that create strict deadlines for cities to review and decide 
on projects. So, we find ourselves at a crossroads. Redevelopment of the mall will 
fundamentally transform a section of the city and create much-needed housing, especially 
multi-bedroom units for families. This transformation will not happen overnight, but over a 
span of around two decades, which will present its own challenges for nearby residents as 
amenities like Trader Joe’s and Barnes and Noble close over the span of construction. I ask 
the Council to work with Bohannon, which promotes itself as a “family-owned firm” that 
“develops projects that benefit [its] local communities,” to expand the amount of green and 
open community space in the project proposal and to consider reducing the sizeable office 
space footprint. Moreover, as city staff and the Council continue the iterative process of 
review and discussion with the developer over the course of this project, I urge your 
comprehensive consideration of pedestrian connectivity with Caltrain’s nearby Hillsdale 
Station and with neighboring residential neighborhoods. While I am still cautious about the 
immense scale of this proposal, I am generally optimistic that the planned housing and 
retail development will ultimately be a net positive for this city and its residents. 
Thank you, 
James Ford 
384 of 551

--- page 385 ---
From:
Thomas Gorman
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Mall Q&A
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 1:58:31 PM
Dear City Council members,
Here are my questions for tonight's meeting:
1) How does the city plan on solving the traffic nightmare this new complex will cause?
Please don't suggest that everyone will take Caltrain, because that's not reality.  
2) What guarantees will be made, in writing, that the new buildings won't exceed 10 stories,
including any HVAC systems on top of the buildings?  What can be done to lower the heights
of the proposed buildings along El Camino Real? 
3) What guarantees will be made, in writing, to stop/mitigate the light pollution these new tall
buildings will create. 
4) What guarantees will be made, in writing, to guarantee that Trader Joe's stays? 
5) With the influx of so many people, what other quality/affordable markets will be added
(HEB, ALDI, etc.) to serve the community within the new complex??  
6) The complex will take 10 years or more to build. What will the city do to mitigate the noise,
debris, dust and mess this construction project will cause? 
7) What guarantees will be made, in writing, that the new buildings won't create noise
pollution with the new HVAC systems or other operating systems, like the current hospital
HVAC system does? 
Thank you,
Thomas Gorman
385 of 551

--- page 386 ---
From:
Clara Jaeckel
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
public comment for 11/3/2025 regular meeting agenda item #13
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 3:00:29 PM
Dear City Council,
As a supporter of affordable housing across our county, I am concerned to see that the
proposal for the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment by the Bohannon Development Company
includes only a small proportion of units for low-income households, and none at all for
households at the very low income level. This lack is especially troubling in light of the
Bohannon family's history of pushing redlining in this area, cutting off Black families from
homeownership and the chance to build equity. The negative impacts of this racist practice
have compounded over the last few generations and continue to leave too many families in
unstable housing situations today. To address this harm and truly serve the San Mateo
community's housing needs, the Bohannon Development Company should include more very
low income and low income units in the current proposal.
Regards,
Clara Jaeckel
386 of 551

--- page 387 ---
From:
Nicklas Johnson
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Agenda item 13 public comment
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 3:30:48 PM
This comment is in reference to the November 3 city council meeting agenda, item #13, "Hillsdale Mall
Redevelopment Application — Informational"
Currently office space vacancy rates remain high in the county, at nearly 25%.  At the same time, the
city (and indeed the entire Peninsula) struggles with meeting housing needs, especially affordable
housing needs.
Why are we considering adding one single square foot of unneeded office space to the city when
housing is so desperately needed (and mandated by the state)?
This vicious circle is all too familiar: we complain there's not enough housing, then we greenlight more
office space, and then we complain that there's not enough housing.  We also complain there's not
enough space to build the housing we need, thus we need to increase density and height, completely
disregarding the fact that the space was there, but we chose to build empty offices instead of housing
on it.
We should be looking at mixed-use development for Hillsdale, not more office space.  It's so close to
transit already, it would make a perfect location for more homes, coupled together with shops and
restaurants for those who live there and those who would visit.  Additionally it would benefit from a
few "anchors" like an affordable grocery store (such as a Safeway or Lucky), as well as green space for
residents and visitors alike.
This could be a vibrant new semi-residential neighborhood and an asset to the community instead of
soulless, empty offices which only benefit the developer.
   Nicklas Johnson
   San Mateo Resident, district 2
-- 
387 of 551

--- page 388 ---
From: Paul Krupka

To: Clerk

Subject: City Council Regular Meeting, November 3, 2025, Item: 13, Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Application -
Informational

Date: Monday, November 3, 2025 2:48:25 PM

Dear Mayor Newsom, Vice Mayor Loraine, and Council Members Nash, Cwirko-Godycki,
and Fernandez,

I am delighted to see Hillsdale Reimagined morph into an application! I am fully supportive of
this project, which represents an essential transformation of the Hillsdale Shopping Center.
The long, deliberate process of community engagement, careful planning, and design has
defined a neighborhood for people, complementing existing neighborhoods and uses, with
desperately needed homes, harmonizing retail uses, and open spaces, all connected directly to

transit.
I am excited to participate forward.

Sincerely,

Paul

Paul Krupka (he/him/his)

388 of 551


--- page 389 ---
From:
Alexis Lewis
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
11/03/25 City Council: STUDY SESSION - Item 1
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 10:55:38 AM
Attachments:
Bohannon - Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment.pdf
Good morning,
Please include my letter in the public comments for tonight’s City Council
meeting.  
Regards, 
Alexis K. Lewis
 
 "So I say to you, walk with the wind, brothers and sisters, and let the
spirit of peace and the power of everlasting love be your guide." John
Lewis 
389 of 551

--- page 390 ---
Subject: Bohannon Companies/Bohannon Development Company - A Call for 
Accountability and Justice in Housing Development 
Dear Bohannon Development Company,  
Have you once again forgotten me? Allow me to introduce myself. I am a 
descendant of legal citizens who were deliberately excluded from homeownership 
by the very policies championed by Mr. Bohanon beginning in 1938. The direct 
result of those cruel and discriminatory actions has left my family in generational 
poverty—while his descendants now enjoy wealth built on the deprivation of others. 
You stripped us of dignity based solely on the color of our skin. You now claim that 
this project will serve the community by addressing the housing crisis and 
transforming this location into the “heart of the Peninsula.” Yet when I hear the 
phrase “unparalleled quality,” I hear a dog whistle—a signal that this project is not 
truly intended for families like mine. 
You say that including more affordable housing “does not pencil out”. We 
understand all too well what that means. Our current rent of $3,200 a month forces 
us to work multiple jobs and rely on assistance just to give our children a modest 
Christmas. 
So, I am asking—no, urging—you to include a substantial number of very low-cost 
housing units in this project. Not as charity, but as a step toward acknowledging 
and repairing the historic harm your predecessors inflicted upon our community. 
It is long past time for accountability. The exclusionary policies and practices that 
you continue to perpetuate have condemned generations of people of color to 
poverty—a fate that is unjust and inhumane. Justice demands reparation, not 
rhetoric. 
Sincerely, 
Alexis Lewis 
 
390 of 551

--- page 391 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Mall "Re"- Construction
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 9:14:36 AM
PC
 
From: Aggie Marosvari 
 
Sent: Thursday, October 30, 2025 10:25 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall "Re"- Construction
 
Hello,
 
As I work near the Hillsdale Mall area, we use the roads around the Mall every day, shop
in the area every week ...
 
I am just concerned that the renewed part of the Hillsdale Mall area will be more of a
burden on the city, on the people than good. A monsterous new building, being like a
maze, with extra expensive upscale apartments is NOT for the city and its people but the
developer ... and its pocket. 
 
It will NOT provide healthy, affordable housing for sure, it will polarize the population
even more.
 
Please help.
Thank you,
 
Aggie M. 
 
--
Aggie M.
 
Junior High Math Teacher
St. Gregory Catholic School
 
Multiply Love * Add Hope * End Division * Subtract Fear
 
391 of 551

--- page 392 ---
From:
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
To:
Clerk
Cc:
Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Mall Project Comments
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 12:26:27 PM
Can we please share this message with the entire council. Thank you!
 
From: Liz Magnee-Schalch 
 
Sent: Monday, November 3, 2025 11:49 AM
To: Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall Project Comments
 
Hi Danielle,
Thanks for your post about the Hillsdale Mall Project.
I cannot make tonight's meeting. I sent my concerns to the planning department a few
months ago.
As a homeowner in the village, I know firsthand about the traffic congestion from
Pacific/Deleware feeding into the neighborhood, side streets, and Hillsdale. 
 
I know the argument is that it is on the rail corridor, but let's be honest: only 10-20% of
people will use the train. Since the train station moved from across the street to 2 blocks
down El Camino, there will be less incentive to walk to the train.
 
Other stressors on the school system to support the additional students both in K-9 and
Hillsdale High School. How will those be addressed by the builder/VC to support that
influx.
 
When I last looked at the project, only 15% set aside for low income. That does not help
with the affordability of San Mateo when condos are selling over a million dollars for a 2
bedroom now.
 
The size of the proposed structures is another issue. We only have a few 10 story high
building around downtown. Why do we need a 10-story-high building smack in the
middle of the city? Even the office  buildings on the other side of El Camino are that high.
I wouldn't be opposed to housing being close to that height, but offices do not make any
sense being that high if they aren't right off the freeway.
 
This is a money grab by the developer/VC, aiming to pack as much as possible into this
space to maximize profit. They disregard the real impacts on the surrounding areas. They
claim there will be 1,991 more parking spaces, but how does this account for 2 cars per
392 of 551

--- page 393 ---
unit, plus spaces for retail shoppers and office employees? I don't see how that is
enough space to accommodate the proposed density.
 
Lastly, what is the impact of this development on water usage? We experiencing multi-
year drought cycles, and you propose adding strain to water usage for office buildings
and a massive housing development. 
 
Thank you for reading my list of concerns.
Liz Magnee-Schalch
 
 
 
393 of 551

--- page 394 ---
From:
Mary Robblee
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Mall Revamp
Date:
Saturday, November 1, 2025 5:21:44 PM
Why do you want to clog up our streets with more traffic and take away a mall that people
need. It's not just for shopping but it is a place to socialize and for the senior population a
place to safely walk.
What about the people who own houses on the backside. They did not purchase their homes to
be in close proximity to a housing development of this proposed  size.
Keep the mall. Make it like the Stanford Mall. A great place to shop, walk and socialize.
Every corner in downtown San Mateo has nothing but high rise buildings with more to come. 
Think about the traffic. We will be so congested. 
Highway 92 is already stopped eastbound between 2:30 and 3pm. Enough is enough. 
Think about the people who live here NOW.
394 of 551

--- page 395 ---
From:
Keith Miller
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Redevelopment
Date:
Saturday, November 1, 2025 6:23:22 AM
Really need to take close look at the project. We already have a challenging infrastructure to
include traffic, utilities (PG&E) and frequent droughts. Now you are approving a major build
out. No to high rises and high density build outs.
395 of 551

--- page 396 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Agenda Item 13
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 4:18:45 PM
Pc
 
From: Stephanie Reyes 
 
Sent: Friday, October 31, 2025 4:17 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Agenda Item 13
 
Dear City Council,
 
I live in the Bay Meadows neighborhood, right across the street from the Hillsdale
Reimagined project. I'm writing to share my support for the project - especially for the up
to 1,670 new homes (and most especially the up to 250 affordable homes).
 
I love living in Bay Meadows, where I can take Caltrain or the ECR bus to get around
easily, and walk to the local Whole Foods, restaurants, and parks. It would be great for
more folks to be able to enjoy such a walkable, transit-rich neighborhood - the Hillsdale
Reimagined project will provide that.
 
My kid is only 11, so it'll be a while before he needs a place of his own to live. But when
that day comes, I hope he at least has the option to choose to stay in San Mateo.
Allowing more homes to be built at Hillsdale will make that all the more likely.
 
I hope you'll support this project for San Mateo's future.
 
Sincerely,
Stephanie Reyes
 
396 of 551

--- page 397 ---
From: Laura Roedel

To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: San Mateo citizens concerned about proposed Hillsdale Mall redevelopment plan
Date: Monday, November 3, 2025 8:32:18 AM

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

| am writing to express my strong concerns about the proposed Hillsdale Mall
redevelopment plan, in advance of tonight's meeting. As a San Mateo resident, |
believe this plan will negatively impact our community in several ways:

1. **Loss of Essential Retail Access**: The demolition of major portions of the mall
will create a retail desert in our neighborhood, forcing residents to travel long
distances for basic shopping needs.

2. ““Infrastructure Strain**: The proposed 10-story buildings will overwhelm our
existing infrastructure, including roads, utilities, and public services, without adequate
planning or mitigation.

3. **Community Impact**: Hillsdale Mall has been a community gathering place for
70 years. This plan erases our shared history and eliminates a vital social hub for
families, seniors, and young people.

4. **Alternative Solutions**: Other communities have successfully revitalized their
malls without demolition. We should explore adaptive reuse, mixed-use concepts, and
community-focused development instead.

By now, you've likely noticed the growing number of local voters speaking up on
Nextdoor and Reddit who also oppose demolishing the ONLY indoor retail shopping
mall in San Mateo in exchange for more vacant commercial spaces, high-priced
housing, strain on our aged infrastructure and potential loss of city tax revenue.

For more details on the impact to our San Mateo community, alternatives and
actions to boost visibility of this major local issue, visit the website:

| urge you to reconsider this plan and work with our community to find a solution that
preserves Hillsdale Mall while addressing the area's development needs.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Respectfully,

Laura Roedel

397 of 551


--- page 398 ---
From:
Mike Sallander
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Mall Development
Date:
Saturday, November 1, 2025 6:38:14 PM
Hi City Council
As you consider the Hillsdale Mall Development, I wanted to bring to your attention the need to address the parking
for people who live in the Hillsdale Garden Apartments.  Over the years, the mall has allowed residents to park in
the parking lot of Wells Fargo/Citibank and Guitar Center. This has helped to reduce the number of cars parking in
the surrounding residential areas since the apartments lack enough parking for their residents.
If this parking is no longer available during or after the construction it will result in more parking challenges for the
neighborhood surrounding the mall and the Hillsdale Garden Apartments. 
As a potential solution, perhaps the mall could re-open the parking lot along 36th Avenue behind Dunn Edward’s.
This would help to alleviate the parking issues. Another idea would be for the mall development to include a parking
garage nearby the Hillsdale Garden Apartments that would be open to the public.
Thanks for considering this as you work on the development plans for the Mall.
Thanks
Mike Sallander
398 of 551

--- page 399 ---
From:
Dave Santos
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Hillsdale Redevelopment Project
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 4:43:35 PM
City Council members:
I am writing to share my concerns about the Hillsdale Mall
redevelopment project.
Does this project serve the overall well-being of San Mateo residents
not just Bohannan Properties and Norwood Investors?
I am concerned that public interests are being minimized and not
protected.
Years ago, Bohannan Properties successfully lobbied the Board of
Supervisors to oppose BART coming down the peninsula. There was a
concern that with enhanced transportation options that shoppers would
not patronize Hillsdale Shopping Center. What was good for the public
did not factor in the decision.
Now the focus of Bohannon Properties is to demolish a part of Hillsdale
to build housing, office space and retail. I want to make sure that the
interests of San Mateo not those of private developers are foremost in
planning.
Does the city have an idea of how much revenue they will be losing in
the loss of retail space and the results and consequences of this action
on their income?
How will this funding be replaced?
I think this question is important to consider in terms of infrastructure,
traffic, noise, and the quality of life.
Where is the concern that an affordable grocery store be part of this
project?
Where is the concern that ten story towers being part of this plan?
399 of 551

--- page 400 ---
I am not opposed to creation of new housing, office space, and retail if it
is done with the best interests of the city and its residents and without
destroying the neighborhood character of San Mateo.
The adage of “follow the money” is true here. Private equity firms’
incentive is to maximize profits.
I want to see the city develop a strong Conditions of Approval as well as
a binding Development Agreement to ensure that this project is not just
profit driven.
If that is not the case, the council needs to limit the scope of remodeling,
reject this proposal or find a new buyer for Hillsdale Shopping Center.
Up to this point, communication about this project leaves something to
be desired. Hopefully the council will take the impetus to reach out to
the community and inform its residents as to what is going on.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Dave Santos
 
400 of 551

--- page 401 ---
From:
sfamp2000
To:
Clerk
Subject:
HILLSDALE MALL Redevelopment PA-2025-
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 2:33:20 PM
Attachments:
image.png
Hello San Mateo Clerk -
I spoke with Elaine earlier today and she asked that I provide you with some of the questions I
had regarding this project and hopefully can be brought up at the meeting this evening. My
questions / concerns are as follows;
-INVENTORY of Bufano statues - has this been complete? The plan does not show
-LOCATION of the Bufano Statues in the planned redevelopment.- Plans do not show new
locations. 
CONCERN: if these are left in an unprotected area with street access, they may be subject to
graffiti and/or other damage. Not speaking of weather, as the statue material is likely weather
resistant but dirt. leaves, bird droppings and the like may be an issue over time.
 OWNERSHIP - Who is the legal owner of these sculptures? I know the were dedicated (per
the plaques) in 1954. I believe we need proof of ownership. I believe these were gifted to the
City of San Mateo by Benamino Bufano not Bohannon Development Corp.
As you can see I am very concerned about the care and future of these incredible statues and
treasures!. I and my siblings were born and raised in San Mateo - We have many photos of us
as a family at the HIllsdale Mall and photos of us sitting on some of the statues! 
Here I am sitting on the White Rabbit!
image.png
401 of 551

--- page 402 ---
402 of 551

--- page 403 ---
From:
Kolja Schluetter
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Support for Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 11:45:48 AM
Dear San Mateo City Council,
 
On Monday, you will hold the first study session regarding the proposed Hillsdale Mall
redevelopment. I want to express my full support for this project and share how excited I am
about the vision being presented. I believe it will be tremendously beneficial for San Mateo
and our community as a whole.
 
This project brings a number of clear advantages:
Over 1,600 new housing units, significantly advancing our city’s housing goals and
exceeding the targets set in the General Plan for this site.
A thoughtful site layout that respects existing single-family neighborhoods by placing
low-rise townhomes along the perimeter and concentrating taller office buildings along
El Camino Real.
Retention of the newer mall section, preserving a valuable community amenity.
Creation of a vibrant retail plaza that will serve as a welcoming gathering place for
residents and visitors alike.
Addition of modern office space, bringing new jobs and economic vitality to the area.
The site leverages excellent transit access, with immediate proximity to Caltrain and
convenient connections to Highways 101 and 92.
As a qualifying SB 330 project, it will benefit from streamlined approvals and legal
protections that ensure timely progress.
 
Since there is no legal basis to deny this project due to its housing designation, I encourage the
Council and community to focus on thoughtful implementation and long-term success. I also
appreciate the developer’s proactive communication and community engagement to date.
 
As the process moves forward, I would urge the City to ensure:
The inclusion of at least one full-service grocery store to replace Trader Joe’s and
ideally another specialized grocer to meet diverse neighborhood needs while reducing
car-dependent shopping trips of our new residents.
A robust traffic management and mitigation plan addressing both the multi-year
construction period and post-completion traffic impacts.
A comprehensive plan for multi-modal connectivity, supporting safe and efficient
walking, biking, driving, and transit access.
 
This proposal will significantly enhance the livability and attractiveness of San Mateo for the
benefit of our entire community.
 
Thank you for your leadership and for advancing a project that will meaningfully shape San
Mateo’s future for the better.
 
Best, Kolja
403 of 551

--- page 404 ---
404 of 551

--- page 405 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Alby Calles
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Study Session
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 4:19:33 PM
 
 
From: Linda Tolosano 
 
Sent: Friday, October 31, 2025 2:44 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Study Session
 
City Council of San Mateo:
There was a post recently on a website regarding the Hillsdale Mall redevelopment. I have
many of the same concerns as the poster, which they articulated, and are listed below. This is
a huge deal for San Mateo with lasting impact. San Mateo needs to get it right, not bow to the
bottom line of a big developer. Bohannon already manipulated the City through Measure T.
Let's be smarter this time and get a development the City deserves.
Here are some key concerns to consider: 
Traffic & Infrastructure: Thousands of new daily car trips will further clog El Camino Real,
Highway 92, Hillsdale Boulevard, and nearby neighborhood streets. Can our schools, water,
sewer, and emergency services keep up with this growth — and will they be properly funded? 
Neighborhood Character: Proposed ten-story towers would dwarf nearby homes and
buildings, permanently changing the scale and feel of our neighborhood.
Retail Choices and Economic Viability: Residents depend on having an affordable grocery store
nearby and retail options that serve the community. If the new retail mix caters only to high-
end tenants, everyday needs could be ignored. How will the loss of so much sales tax affect
city revenue? 
Public Benefits: With private equity firms involved, the incentive will be to maximize profits.
Without strong Conditions of Approval or a binding Development Agreement, San Mateo risks
405 of 551

--- page 406 ---
giving away too much and getting too little in return. 
San Mateo residents deserve answers: Will there be a binding development agreement to
secure public benefits beyond what state law requires? How will the plan address the lack of
an affordable grocery store and loss of retail revenue? What is the realistic construction
timeline and how will disruption be minimized? How will the city prevent office space from
outpacing housing? What infrastructure upgrades — roads, schools, parks — will be
guaranteed? 
Let’s make sure the Hillsdale redevelopment reflects the needs and values of our community
— not just the bottom line of big developers.
Linda Tolosano
San Mateo, CA
 
 
406 of 551

--- page 407 ---
From:
Carol Wilner
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
New housing in San Mateo
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 7:03:08 PM
I urge you not to build more housing at Hillsdale Mall!!! Already we have too much traffic, not enough police, not
enough retail stores but  an affordable Trader Joe’s grocery store that needs to stay.
Thank you,
Carol Wilner
Sent from iPhone
407 of 551

--- page 408 ---
From: Alexandra Westbrook

To: City Council (San Mateo); Clerk

Subject: Strong Support for the Hillsdale Reimagined Project
Date: Monday, November 3, 2025 3:30:51 PM

Dear San Mateo City Council,

I was born and raised in the Bay Area, and my husband and I feel incredibly fortunate that in
2022 we were able to buy a home here in San Mateo, near Hillsdale, just half an hour from
where I grew up. Still, it was an enormous stretch financially, and it’s clear to me that housing
costs have gotten out of hand in the Bay Area. If we want our children to have the opportunity
to live in the communities where they grew up, we need to build more housing.

That’s why I fully support the Hillsdale Reimagined project. I’ve read through the plans
posted in October in detail, and I’m very excited for this new vision for Hillsdale. The North
Block has been a wonderful success, feels vibrant and welcoming, and is always very active.
The South Block, by contrast, is starting to become an eyesore. I believe the proposed plan
strikes the right balance between adding needed housing, updating retail, and creating new
community spaces.

I’m especially excited about the new Hillsdale Square and the opportunity for community
programming there like concerts, art, or family events. One small detail I’d like to advocate
for is the use of real grass rather than artificial turf in Hillsdale Square and the triangle park
near the Edison roundabout. Real grass will make these parks more enjoyable to sit on and
better for the environment by reducing plastic runoff and improving water absorption in the
watershed.

I’m also excited to see that the plan includes a new grocery store at 31st and El Camino. I
think the development would also benefit from including a smaller grocery or convenience
store space in addition. Something more suited for a Trader Joe’s or similar neighborhood
market.

My biggest concern is the project timeline. I worry that this incredible opportunity might be
delayed for years. I urge the City Council to do everything possible to move the project

forward quickly so the community can benefit sooner.

Thank you for your time and for supporting a project that brings new housing, open space, and
revitalized retail to San Mateo.

Sincerely,
Alexandra Westbrook

408 of 551


--- page 409 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
POST PACKET 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Received after November 3, 2025, 4:00 PM 
409 of 551

--- page 410 ---
From: Rick Bonilla 
  
Sent: Tuesday, November 4, 2025 11:12 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Cost of parking for proposed Hillsdale redevelopment 
 
I believe this is a low side estimate for the cost to add 3000 parking spaces to the proposed 
Hillsdale redevelopment project. This is just for your information and nobody asked me to 
provide this. 
 
 
 
 
410 of 551

--- page 411 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Elaine Ling; Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Joanna Winter; Alex Khojikian; Clerk
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Reimagined - comments
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 9:48:34 PM
Kindly see comment below.
 
This will be added to the item as “public comment received after 4PM”
 
Best,
Chantal
 
 
From: 
 
Sent: Monday, November 3, 2025 5:36 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Reimagined - comments
 
Dear City Council,     I’ve lived in San Mateo for over 20 years, and I’m writing to share my
support for the Hillsdale Reimagined project. Our city is facing a housing shortage, and
this project could help to address a significant need.
 
Building up to 1,670 new homes—both for sale and for rent—would be outstanding and
exactly what San Mateo needs. This project gives families and young people more
options to stay and grow in our community – yay.
 
As part of this, building up to 250 affordable homes is a big deal. Teachers, nurses, and
service workers—people who make our city run—should be able to live here too. Right
now, that’s  pretty difficult. This project adds a mix of homes for all kinds of people, not
just those who can afford to buy a house.
 
It’s great to build housing near Caltrain and on land that’s already developed. Plus, the
plan includes shops and open spaces -  will make it a comfortable neighborhood.
 
I hope you’ll support Hillsdale Reimagined.  It’s the kind of project that shows San Mateo
cares about housing for all the people of this wonderful city.
 
Best regards and thank you,   
 
    Susan Ketcham
411 of 551

--- page 412 ---
412 of 551

--- page 413 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Clerk
Subject:
FW: Nov 3 City Council Meeting- Hillsdale Shopping Ctr Project
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 9:47:54 PM
Kindly see comment below.
 
This will be added to the item as “public comment received after 4PM”
 
Best,
Chantal
 
 
From: Susan Rowinski 
 
Sent: Monday, November 3, 2025 5:56 PM
To: Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Elaine Ling <eling@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Nov 3 City Council Meeting- Hillsdale Shopping Ctr Project
 
I am glad to hear for the issue I raised in my prior emails has raised staff awareness related
to Hillsdale Garden Apt residents and visitors 100 + cars currently parked in Trader Joes
and Wells Fargo lots overnight until 12pm the following day. 
Where do these cars park during construction which will be several years?
Can these cars park in any of the 4963 parking spots after construction?
Susan
On 2025-11-04 01:48 AM, Chantal Eaton wrote:
Dear Susan,
 
Thank you for reaching out. As Zach mentioned in his email, the pictures provided will
be added to this item as public comment received after 4PM. However, for awareness
this has been shared with staff and Council.
 
Kind regards,
Chantal
 
From: Susan Rowinski 
 
Sent: Monday, November 3, 2025 5:03 PM
To: Chantal Eaton <ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fwd: Nov 3 City Council Meeting- Hillsdale Shopping Ctr Project
413 of 551

--- page 414 ---
Hello Chantel
I see Martin is out.  Can you read the email below related to a request for tonights
meeting. THank you Susan
-------- Original Message --------
Subject:Nov 3 City Council Meeting- Hillsdale Shopping Ctr Project
Date:2025-11-04 12:59 AM
From:Susan Rowinski 
To:Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>, Zachary Dahl
<zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>
Hello Martin
My husband and I will be attending tonight's meeting.  Out Attendance will be either virtual
or in -person. 
When I speak is it possible to have available showing on the city's screens, positioned at
each council seat, the attached (2) JPG pictures. The pictures are numbered for order. 
The pictures show the Hillsdale Garden Apt (100 +)  residents 'and visitors' cars parked
overnight at the Wells Fargo (picture 2) and Trader Joes (picture_ Parking lots.
 Most cars leave by 12pm the following day. Begin parking at these lots about 8pm.
Since there is not ample street parking the residents and visitors cars park at these lots. 
Where are these cars going to park once construction begins? Where are they going to
park once the project is completed?
I understand there will be 2000 parking spaces but will the spaces allow for 100+ cars
from the hillsdale garden Apts when completed?
--
Best Regards,
Susan Rowinski
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If
you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or
copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return
e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank
you.
414 of 551

--- page 415 ---


--- page 416 ---


--- page 417 ---
From: Rubi Salazar

To: Clerk

Cc: City Council (San Mateo)

Subject: Public Comment: Agenda item 13. Hillsdale Mall Redevelopment Application
Date: Monday, November 3, 2025 4:00:59 PM

Good afternoon, City Council Members,

My name is Rubi Salazar, and I am a resident of San Mateo, where I work at the Youth
Leadership Institute, serving programs in San Mateo County. I urge the council to consider the
impacts of this project, especially on the current community of San Mateo. If there is to be
development for housing, I ask that 75%, if not all, be dedicated to affordable housing. As a
community member and adult ally to youth, affordable housing is a major issue. Many of our
youth want to continue living in San Mateo County after graduation, but given the cost of
living, it is nearly impossible unless youth have family already in the area.

Please take this into consideration when learning more about this project.

Thank you,
Rubi

Rubi Salazar

Program Manager, San Mateo County
She, Her, Hers

Youth Leadership Institute

@ 2 \|8| a
Youth leading & creating equitable communities.

*If you or someone you know is experiencing an emotional crisis, please call or text the Suicide & Crisis
Lifeline, 988.*

417 of 551


--- page 418 ---
From:
Chantal Eaton
To:
Elaine Ling; Sung H. Kwon; Zachary Dahl
Cc:
Joanna Winter; Alex Khojikian; Clerk
Subject:
FW: Hillsdale Mall, CSM, Campus Drive, Clearview (Tesla/Go Pro Site)Developments
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 9:46:37 PM
Kindly see comment below.
 
This will be added to the item as “public comment received after 4PM”
 
Best,
Chantal
 
 
From: Robert Wick 
 
Sent: Monday, November 3, 2025 6:17 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Hillsdale Mall, CSM, Campus Drive, Clearview (Tesla/Go Pro Site)Developments
 
Greetings,
 
November 3, 2025
 
I am very concerned regarding the current lack of planned infrastructure for planned
development in San Mateo. There seems to be a lack of restriction due to major
oversights by developers proposed plans. The concerns I have are purely objective:
 
1. San Mateo does not have schools that would support the student population
increase. There are currently waiting lists for all High, Middle and Elementary Schools
throughout San Mateo County. (San Mateo, Aragon, Hillsdale are at capacity)
Elementary Schools (Baywood and Highlands) over capacity currently and no space
available to build out. 
 
Where will the new schools be located for all the new residents/students? How will they
be financed/budgeted? 
 
2. Traffic is at a standstill along the 92  and 101 corridors with additional traffic trying to
circumvent the congestion through city streets during peak hours. Anyone living near
West Hilldale will attest that additional congestion will result from new compliance
regulations from new developments. The impact of Harvest Developments on Campus
Drive (290 Residential Units) and proposed development at the site of Tesla Go pro site
418 of 551

--- page 419 ---
on Clearview Way (222 units). CSM Dormitories proposed (316 Units). 
 
The Traffic Study performed for Harvest Properties was done during the peak of
COVID Lockdown which INVALIDATES the study. The study needs to be done with
current traffic conditions and the council should require it.
 
3. Parking - Each new home condo adds at least 2 and up to 4 vehicles to each
residence. Developers do not appear to consider this factor but appear to maximize
home sale and minimize amenities such as parking spaces for each home and visitors in
high density housing.  
 
Fantasy Commutership by developers - Traffic studies for developers use the bus, train
and bikes and other means as a percentage of commuters in studies when actual
alternative ridership for San Mateo do not support the assertion. San Mateo residents
use cars and trains for transportation. Some kids use the bus but parents drive their kids
to school every day.
 
I am not anti-development for San Mateo but I do expect the city council to provide
leadership for it to be done responsibly with limits to scope and size. There should be
additional input from an area greater than 1000 ft from a proposed development project
(who drafted that city or state requirement). This should be changed as citizenry being
greatly affected must be allowed a voice for input for development.
 
SB 330 and the recent passing of height limits in San Mateo for the purpose of compliance
with state limits seems to have opened Pandora's box.
 
The Council still retains the ability to limit scope and height of proposed projects during
proposal reviews. Objective concerns should be part of the Council's remedies for
proposed projects in order to assure the quality of living in San Mateo remains at a high
standard. 
 
Robert Wick
VP Clearview Townhome HOA
419 of 551

--- page 420 ---
Hillsdale Mall 
Redevelopment
32-acre Mixed-Use Housing Development Project
(PA-2025-052)
City Council Study Session
November 3, 2023
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
420 of 551

--- page 421 ---
BACKGROUND & TIMELINE
BACKGROUND & TIMELINE
Feb 6, 2025 
SB330 Preliminary 
Application Submission
March 20, 2025 
Pre-App Deemed 
Complete
November 3, 2025 
City Council Study 
Session
July 21, 2025 
1st Incomplete 
Letter Issued
June 20, 2025 
Formal Application 
Submission
November 17, 2025 
2nd Comment 
Letter Due
October 17, 2025 
2nd round 
resubmission 
Preliminary Application 
Full Application 
180 DAYS
30 DAYS
90 DAYS
90 DAYS
……
On August 12, 2025, HCD technical assistance letter 
confirmed the project as a housing development project 
2 of 14
421 of 551

--- page 422 ---
3 of 14
Project Site
Hillsdale Blvd
Railroad Tracks
North Block to Remain
31st Ave
El Camino Real
Edison St
Laurel Creek
CONTEXT
CONTEXT
Bay Meadow
Hillsdale Caltrain Station
422 of 551

--- page 423 ---
4 of 14
Residential
Retail
Office
Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station
General Plan 2040 Land Use Designations: 
Mixed-Use High
Mixed-Use Medium II
Zoning Designation: 
C2-2/Q5
SURROUNDING LAND USES 
SURROUNDING LAND USES 
Barnes & Noble
Hillsdale Mall 
(South Block)
Parking Structure
Parking Structure
Bank
Trader Joe’s
Bay Meadows
423 of 551

--- page 424 ---
MASTER PLAN CONCEPT 
MASTER PLAN CONCEPT 
5 of 14
Retail
Flexible
Commercial
Residential
Residential
424 of 551

--- page 425 ---
PROJECT INFORMATION 
PROJECT INFORMATION 
6 of 14
Preliminary 
Application
Formal Application
1st Submission
Formal Application
2nd Submission
Existing Non-
Residential Floor Area 
to be Demolished
1,490,331 sq. ft.
1,490,331 sq. ft.
1,490,331 sq. ft.
Residential Units
1,392 units
Up to 1,670 units
1,389 units
Residential Floor Area
1,905,000 sq. ft.
Up to 2,390,800 sq. ft.
2,029,508 sq. ft.
Non-Residential Floor 
Area
2,059,000 sq. ft.
Up to 2,056,000 sq. ft.
2,105,866 sq. ft.
Parking
5,390 spaces
No Information provided
4,963 spaces
Up to 1,670 units identified on Master Plan Document
Up to 2,390,800 sq.ft. identified on Master Plan Document
Up to 2,059,000 sq.ft. identified on Master Plan Document
425 of 551

--- page 426 ---
APPLICABLE CODES AND POLICIES
APPLICABLE CODES AND POLICIES
7 of 14
State Law
•
HOUSING ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (HAA) 
•
HOUSING CRISIS ACT (SB330)
•
Density Bonus Law
•
AB2097
•
SB937
•
SB743
Local Plans and Code 
•
General Plan 2040
•
Hillsdale Station Area Plan
•
Zoning Ordinance 
•
Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan
•
El Camino Real Corridor Plan
•
Objective Design Standards
* Other State laws and local codes and policies may be applicable.
426 of 551

--- page 427 ---
HOUSING ACCOUNTABILITY ACT LIMITS CITY DISCRETION
HOUSING ACCOUNTABILITY ACT LIMITS CITY DISCRETION
• Applies to “housing development projects” – revised 1/1/25
• HCD:  Hillsdale development qualifies under new definition 
•
50 percent of the net new residential use and >500 Units, etc.
• City can require compliance with objective, quantifiable, 
written standards (e.g., in the General Plan/ Zoning Code)
• City cannot deny or reduce project density absent a specific 
adverse impact on public health or safety: 
• a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based 
on objective, identified written health or safety standards
8 of 14
427 of 551

--- page 428 ---
Need Clear Timeline and Phasing Plan
• Applicant’s website – 20 years
• More detail is needed
• Uncertainty – utility capacity analysis, water 
supply assessment, and traffic analysis 
Staff Working with HCD and Applicant
• In compliance with the state laws and local 
regulations
• Support delivery of residential components 
concurrently and proportionately with non-
residential components 
Review Procedure
• Three rounds of incompleteness review
• 60-day consistency review after the project 
deemed complete
ISSUE 1 
ISSUE 1 
PROJECT TIMELINE 
PROJECT TIMELINE 
AND PHASING PLAN
AND PHASING PLAN
9 of 14
428 of 551

--- page 429 ---
Regional Retail and Employment Center 
• Hillsdale Station Area Plan supports 
maintaining as a regional commercial use 
• Legislation Update – Discretionary process 
no longer applicable to Housing 
Development Project 
• City-led Fiscal Impact Analysis
Community Serving Needs
• Up to 1,670 new housing units 
• 1,389 units in most recent submittal plan set
• The total amount and type of proposed 
retail/commercial space is still undefined
• Should include sufficient space to maintain 
retail and commercial services
ISSUE 2 
ISSUE 2 
REGIONAL 
REGIONAL 
SHOPPING CENTER 
SHOPPING CENTER 
DESIGNATION AND 
DESIGNATION AND 
COMMUNITY 
COMMUNITY 
SEVERING 
SEVERING 
COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL
10 of 14
429 of 551

--- page 430 ---
11 of 14
Add a slide (Text only)
Pedestrian Bridge
• To maximize TOD and Caltrain station 
proximity, a strong connection to Hillsdale 
Station is needed
• Would strengthen connectivity for all uses 
on west side of El Camino Real
Off-Street Parking
• Subject to AB 2097
• Ground-level parking structures
• Street parking 
• Standalone parking structure (C5)
ISSUE 3 
ISSUE 3 
PEDESTRIAN 
PEDESTRIAN 
CONNECTION TO 
CONNECTION TO 
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN 
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN 
STATION
STATION
ISSUE 4 
ISSUE 4 
OFF-STREET 
OFF-STREET 
PARKING 
PARKING 
430 of 551

--- page 431 ---
12 of 14
ISSUE 5 
ISSUE 5 
TRAFFIC AND 
TRAFFIC AND 
CIRCULATION 
CIRCULATION 
ISSUE 6 
ISSUE 6 
SITE AND 
SITE AND 
ARCHITECTURAL 
ARCHITECTURAL 
DESIGN STANDARDS
DESIGN STANDARDS
Traffic and Circulation 
• Subject to SB743 – Streamline VMT analysis 
• General Plan 2040 policy requires a site-
specific traffic analysis
• City-hired Consultant to prepare local 
transportation analysis (LTA)
Site and Architectural Design Standards
• Tall Building Design Quality
• El Camino Real Edge
• Compatible Architectural Design with 
Surrounding Neighborhood
• Ground-level Interfaces
431 of 551

--- page 432 ---
13 of 14
ISSUE 7
ISSUE 7
ENVIRONMENTAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
REVIEW
REVIEW
Applicant Proposal
• 15183 Exemption – Tier off General Plan EIR
Further Review 
• Preparation of technical studies to identify 
any potential effects
• Needs to be in compliance with the state 
laws and local regulations
432 of 551

--- page 433 ---
PUBLIC NOTICE, AND NEXT STEPS
PUBLIC NOTICE, AND NEXT STEPS
• 1,000-ft mailing radius, email subscribers, social media, and 
placards
• Revise based on City Council and public input
• Completeness determination
• Revisions to establish consistency with local plans and codes
• Environmental Review with technical studies
• Planning Commission public hearings 
• City Council public hearings and decision
14 of 14
433 of 551

--- page 434 ---
Thank You
Elaine Ling, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
eling@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7216
15 of 18
434 of 551

--- page 435 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Redevelopment
November 3, 2025 
City of San Mateo 
City Council Study Session 
435 of 551

--- page 436 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Redevelopment
2
Better 
than before 
●
Enhanced regional 
shopping destination
●
New open spaces for 
community
●
Multi-modal access  
●
Activating mix of uses
●
Added housing to 
address critical need
●
Contribution to San 
Mateo's economic 
vibrancy 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
436 of 551

--- page 437 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Responding to the community’s 
needs over time 
3
The rise of the 
shopping center
The Heyday of 
the Mall
Opportunity: Vibrant, 
Mixed-Use Destination 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Experiential 
shopping 
437 of 551

--- page 438 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
4
3 Site Walks
4+ Neighborhood and 
Community Meetings
12 Community 
Pop-Ups
Hillsdale Reimagined 
8,500+ 
PEOPLE ENGAGED
438 of 551

--- page 439 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
5
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Hillsdale
Reimagined
Gehl — Making Cities for People
439 of 551

--- page 440 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
6
Vibrant regional 
retail 
North 
Block
150K sq ft of tenanted retail (approx.)
40 retailers (approx.)
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
440 of 551

--- page 441 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
7
North 
Block
A neighborhood grocer
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
441 of 551

--- page 442 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
8
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Expanded public realm to 
Hillsdale Center and 
Hillsdale Square
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
442 of 551

--- page 443 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
9
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Improved ECR-31st 
connections
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
443 of 551

--- page 444 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
10
Network of neighborhood 
open spaces
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
4.5 acres of new open spaces (approx.)
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
444 of 551

--- page 445 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
11
Better routes for 
walking and biking
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
445 of 551

--- page 446 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
12
A range of housing types 
meeting San Mateo’s
housing needs
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
446 of 551

--- page 447 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
13
A scale that meets the 
neighborhood
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
447 of 551

--- page 448 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
14
Height and 
workplaces towards 
El Camino Real
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
448 of 551

--- page 449 ---
Hillsdale Reimagined
15
A mixed-use, regional 
destination
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
Hillsdale
Caltrain
Station
Hillsdale
Square
Hillsdale
Center
North 
Block
Neighborhood 
Passage
Creekside 
Walk
Townhome Way
Edison Greenway
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
449 of 551

--- page 450 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
El Camino Real  
16
New Gateway to Hillsdale 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
16
Gehl — Making Cities for People
El Camino Real
450 of 551

--- page 451 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
New Gateway to Hillsdale 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
17
Gehl — Making Cities for People
El Camino Real  
451 of 551

--- page 452 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Center
Shopping and Dining Heart
Hillsdale Reimagined 
18
Gehl — Making Cities for People
452 of 551

--- page 453 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Center
Shopping and Dining Heart
Hillsdale Reimagined 
19
Gehl — Making Cities for People
453 of 551

--- page 454 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
East Sailer Dr. 
Complete streets lined 
with ground floor retail 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
20
Gehl — Making Cities for People
454 of 551

--- page 455 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Square
Actively programmed 
community green space  
Hillsdale Reimagined 
21
Gehl — Making Cities for People
455 of 551

--- page 456 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Edison Greenway
22
A comfortable, scaled transition 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
456 of 551

--- page 457 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
A Day in 
the Life 
at Hillsdale
YOUNG FAMILY
OFFICE WORKER
LOCAL NEIGHBORS
Hillsdale Reimagined 
23
457 of 551

--- page 458 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
24
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
24
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
458 of 551

--- page 459 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
25
7:45 AM
Walk the dog 
through 
Greenways and 
Passages 
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
25
459 of 551

--- page 460 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
26
7:45 AM
Walk the dog 
through 
Greenways and 
Passages 
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
26
8:15 AM
Walk to Laurel 
Elementary for 
kid drop off 
YOUNG FAMILY
460 of 551

--- page 461 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
27
7:45 AM
Walk the dog 
through 
Greenways and 
Passages 
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
27
8:15 AM
Walk to Laurel 
Elementary for 
kid drop off 
YOUNG FAMILY
8:45 AM and 5:15 PM
Drive to and from 
work
YOUNG FAMILY
461 of 551

--- page 462 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
28
7:45 AM
Walk the dog 
through 
Greenways and 
Passages 
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
28
8:15 AM
Walk to Laurel 
Elementary for 
kid drop off 
YOUNG FAMILY
8:45 AM and 5:15 PM
Drive to and from 
work
YOUNG FAMILY
5:30 PM
Youth class in 
Hillsdale 
Square after 
arriving home
462 of 551

--- page 463 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
29
7:45 AM
Walk the dog 
through 
Greenways and 
Passages 
YOUNG FAMILY
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Reimagined 
29
8:15 AM
Walk to Laurel 
Elementary for 
kid drop off 
YOUNG FAMILY
8:45 AM and 5:15 PM
Drive to and from 
work
5:30 PM
Youth class in 
Hillsdale 
Square after 
arriving home
YOUNG FAMILY
6:30 PM
Grocery stop to pick 
up ingredients for 
family dinner on the 
way home 
463 of 551

--- page 464 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
OFFICE WORKER
30
Gehl — Making Cities for People
30
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
464 of 551

--- page 465 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
31
Gehl — Making Cities for People
31
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
OFFICE WORKER
465 of 551

--- page 466 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
32
Gehl — Making Cities for People
32
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
OFFICE WORKER
11:15 AM
Nearby 
business 
meeting 
466 of 551

--- page 467 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
33
Gehl — Making Cities for People
33
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
11:15 AM
Nearby 
business 
meeting 
OFFICE WORKER
12:00 PM
Lunch in 
Hillsdale 
Square
467 of 551

--- page 468 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
34
Gehl — Making Cities for People
34
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
11:15 AM
Nearby 
business 
meeting 
12:00 PM
Lunch in 
Hillsdale 
Square
OFFICE WORKER
4:45 PM
Quick stop at 
store for 
friend's 
birthday gift
468 of 551

--- page 469 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
35
Gehl — Making Cities for People
35
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
11:15 AM
Nearby 
business 
meeting 
12:00 PM
Lunch in 
Hillsdale 
Square
4:45 PM
Quick stop at 
store for 
friend's 
birthday gift
OFFICE WORKER
5:15 PM
Coworker 
happy hour at 
Flores
469 of 551

--- page 470 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
36
Gehl — Making Cities for People
36
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
9:15 AM
Coffee 
meeting in 
Hillsdale 
Square 
11:15 AM
Nearby 
business 
meeting 
12:00 PM
Lunch in 
Hillsdale 
Square
4:45 PM
Quick stop at 
store for 
friend's 
birthday gift
5:15 PM
Coworker 
happy hour at 
Flores
OFFICE WORKER
8:30 AM and 
6:30 PM
Walk to and 
from work 
from Caltrain 
Station
470 of 551

--- page 471 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
37
LOCAL NEIGHBORS
10:00 AM
Farmers 
market and 
athletic store 
stop 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
37
471 of 551

--- page 472 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
10:00 AM
Farmers 
market and 
athletic store 
stop 
38
LOCAL NEIGHBORS
11:00 AM 
Bike Group 
meet-up and 
Sunday ride 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
38
472 of 551

--- page 473 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
11:00 AM 
Bike Group 
meet-up and 
Sunday ride 
10:00 AM
Farmers 
market and 
athletic store 
stop 
39
LOCAL NEIGHBORS
2:00 PM 
Lunch with 
Bike Group  
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
39
473 of 551

--- page 474 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
HILLSDALE BLVD
31ST AVENUE
11:00 AM 
Bike Group 
meet-up and 
Sunday ride 
10:00 AM
Farmers 
market and 
athletic store 
stop 
2:00 PM 
Lunch with 
Bike Group  
40
LOCAL NEIGHBORS
4:00 PM 
Live music 
and drinks 
with 
neighbors 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
40
474 of 551

--- page 475 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
●
Reaffirming Hillsdale as a regional retail destination 
●
~4.5 acres of new open space
●
Hillsdale Square: farmers markets, movie nights, and community events
●
New off-street bike paths next to Edison St and Hillsdale Blvd
●
Coordination on an improved El Camino Real - 31st Ave intersection
●
Up to 250 affordable homes
●
Sustainability: all-electric operations and CalGreen-compliant buildings
●
~$114M Development Impact Fees
●
Current annual tax revenue ($5.0M) doubles to $10.7M 
●
Accounting for services to accommodate new development, net 
contribution to city General Fund changes from $4.37M to $5.65M 
41
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Benefits
Gehl — Making Cities for People
475 of 551

--- page 476 ---
●Technical studies 
●Thematic community 
engagement 
Our Next Steps 
What We Heard 
●Timeline
Complete by 2040
●Fiscal Impact
Net addition of $1.27M - $2.2M to SM GF
●Regional Retail
40 new retailers
●El Camino Crossing
Initial concept plans 
●Traffic
25% trip reduction
Hillsdale Reimagined 
42
Gehl — Making Cities for People
476 of 551

--- page 477 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
43
Appendix
477 of 551

--- page 478 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
44
Landscape Plan 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
478 of 551

--- page 479 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
45
VTM 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
479 of 551

--- page 480 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
46
Site Plan: Ground Floor   
Hillsdale Reimagined 
480 of 551

--- page 481 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
47
Site Plan: Basement Level 1
Hillsdale Reimagined 
481 of 551

--- page 482 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
48
Site Plan: Basement Level 2   
Hillsdale Reimagined 
482 of 551

--- page 483 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
4.5 Acres  
Open Space 
Up to 
1,670 Homes 
(1,387 in Re-submittal Application)
49
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Up to 250 Below Market Rate  
(208 in Re-submittal Application) 
Hillsdale 
Reimagined 
will have a 
vibrant mix of 
new uses and 
amenities, 
including 
homes, retail, 
dining, and 
office. 
2.1M SF 
Office and Retail  
150K Retail 
+2,000  
New Parking Spaces 
483 of 551

--- page 484 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
50
Program 
Summary 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
*Includes above ground covered 
parking
**Includes above ground covered 
parking and below grade level(s)
484 of 551

--- page 485 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Hillsdale Today
Hillsdale Mall
(Center Block)
Hillsdale
North Block
Macy’s
Nordstrom
P 
Existing department 
anchors (365K) 
222K
Mall’s Occupied Retail 
(72 Tenants) 
135K
South Block 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
Hillsdale
South Block
Trader 
Joe's
200K
North Block 
51
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
31st Avenue
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
485 of 551

--- page 486 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
W Hillsdale Blvd
Townhome Way
Inner Alley
Edison Street
West Sailer Drive
East Sailer Drive
33rd  Avenue
32nd  Avenue
35th Lane
52
Hillsdale will remain a regional retail destination with a 
vibrant ground floor program. 
200K
North Block 
P 
Grocery 
Store
Hillsdale
North Block
Hillsdale Reimagined
150K
Retail 
(40 Tenants) 
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
31st Avenue
EL CAMINO REAL (CA-82)
486 of 551

--- page 487 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
53
Retail Demising 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
487 of 551

--- page 488 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
54
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Concept Study: Pedestrian Improvements at
El Camino Real and 31st Ave Intersection 
488 of 551

--- page 489 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
We like being near the 
Hillsdale Caltrain station 
Bay Meadows office employees 
don’t drive a car to work 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
55
The Hillsdale Station is the seventh
busiest station out of all 29 
40-50%
#7
489 of 551

--- page 490 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
San Mateo County
Downtown San Mateo
Bay Meadows
(Hillsdale Caltrain)
New, transit-adjacent office is more in demand 
in today’s real estate market 
Office Occupancy Rates
Hillsdale Reimagined 
78%
83%
93%
56
490 of 551

--- page 491 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
57
$1.27M to $2.2M
annual net benefit 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
will generate an additional 
This projection 
represents a 
minimum of a 
29% increase 
annual net benefit 
to the city. 
to the City of San Mateo’s 
General Fund. 
491 of 551

--- page 492 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
58
58
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
492 of 551

--- page 493 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
59
59
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
493 of 551

--- page 494 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
60
60
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
494 of 551

--- page 495 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
61
61
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
495 of 551

--- page 496 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
62
62
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
496 of 551

--- page 497 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
63
63
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
497 of 551

--- page 498 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
64
64
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
498 of 551

--- page 499 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
65
65
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
499 of 551

--- page 500 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
66
66
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
500 of 551

--- page 501 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
67
67
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
501 of 551

--- page 502 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
68
68
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
502 of 551

--- page 503 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
69
69
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
503 of 551

--- page 504 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
70
70
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
504 of 551

--- page 505 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
71
71
Phasing 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
505 of 551

--- page 506 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
72
Heights: East to West 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
506 of 551

--- page 507 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
73
Land Use Framework  
Hillsdale Reimagined 
507 of 551

--- page 508 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
74
Parcel Map
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
508 of 551

--- page 509 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
Building Heights 
Hillsdale Reimagined 
75
Gehl — Making Cities for People
509 of 551

--- page 510 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
76
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Gehl — Making Cities for People
510 of 551

--- page 511 ---
Gehl — Making Cities for People
77
Hillsdale Reimagined 
Grocery Store: Plan
Gehl — Making Cities for People
511 of 551

--- page 512 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10587
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Economic Development Work Plan 2026-2029 — Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt Economic Development Work Plan 2026–2029. 
BACKGROUND:
On November 4, 2024, the City Council approved a framework for a three-year Economic Development Work Plan, to 
guide implementation, foster partnerships and strengthen and diversify the City’s economic base. The Work Plan affirms 
the City’s commitment to building a more welcoming, adaptable, inclusive, and resilient business and visitor community. A 
thriving local economy is essential to community vibrancy and long-term fiscal stability. Following Council direction to 
proceed with developing this Work Plan, the City adopted its 2025 Strategic Plan, which identifies Economic Development 
as one of the ten key Initiatives to focus on over the next five years.
The proposed 2026-2029 Economic Development Workplan (Attachment 1) builds on the Council approved framework and 
is designed to be flexible, data-driven, and responsive to changing market conditions.
The proposed Economic Development Work Plan is informed by: 
•
Analysis of San Mateo’s economic strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT);
•
Alignment with General Plan 2040 goals related to economic development;
•
Engagement with stakeholders including the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce, Downtown San Mateo 
Association (DSMA), developers, business owners, and residents;
•
A collaborative cross-departmental staff review; and
•
The City’s Strategic Plan.
PURPOSE
The Economic Development Work Plan provides a clear framework to guide staff in advancing San Mateo’s economic 
priorities by building on the City’s strengths, expanding opportunities, and addressing emerging challenges. Through 
partnerships with the Downtown San Mateo Association, Chamber of Commerce, SAMCEDA, The SF Peninsula, workforce 
organizations, and neighborhood-serving business districts, the Plan supports long-term economic sustainability and 
community vibrancy.
FINDINGS
Following Council’s approval of the initial economic development framework, staff conducted extensive outreach with 
neighborhood businesses, the Chamber of Commerce, Downtown San Mateo Association, commercial brokers, community 
representatives, and internal cross-departmental staff to identify San Mateo’s key strengths, weaknesses, opportunities 
512 of 551

--- page 513 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and threats (SWOT). The following is a summary of the key findings:
•
Strength - Vibrant Downtown and Active Business Districts – The City has a walkable urban core and a diverse mix 
of businesses and community amenities that attract residents and visitors.
•
Strength - Strategic Central Location and Strong Transit Access – The City’s mid-peninsula location, three Caltrain 
stations, SamTrans connections, and highways 101/280/92 access support business activity and workforce 
mobility.
•
Strength - Diverse and Dynamic Business Base – The City’s innovative and inclusive business environment 
supports entrepreneurship and small business growth and is reinforced by a culturally diverse and safe 
community.
•
Weakness - High Costs and Limited Space Constrain Growth – The City’s high operating and real estate costs, loss 
of neighborhood-serving grocers, and limited sites for development create barriers to business expansion.
•
Weakness - Perception of Complex Permitting and Regulations – Feedback from businesses and development 
stakeholders indicates that the City’s permitting processes can be perceived as complex, highlighting the need for 
continued streamlining and improved transparency.
•
Weakness - Declining Hotel Inventory Limits Economic Potential – The reduction in hotel properties limits the 
City’s ability to capture visitor spending, business travel demand, and tourism-related economic activity.
•
Opportunities - Development and Market Momentum –  Recent land use policy changes, including the passage of 
Measure T and SB 330 and the launch of the Downtown Specific Plan in 2026, create opportunities for the City to 
support mixed-use development, business attraction and retention, and new investment.
•
Threats - External Economic Pressures and Regional Competition –  Regional housing affordability challenges, 
shifting retail trends, broader economic uncertainty, and increased competition from neighboring cities may 
impact the City’s ability to retain businesses, sustain workforce, and support long-term economic vitality.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND WORK PROGRAM
Staff utilized Council direction, the results of the SWOT analysis, and stakeholder input to develop the following strategic 
goals and work program. Full descriptions are provided in the 2026–2029 Economic Development Work Plan (Attachment 
1).
1.
Expand and diversify tax revenue sources: Attraction, expansion, and retention of businesses across sectors 
2.
Foster a business-friendly environment: Reduce barriers, streamline permitting, and improve customer service
3.
Support Workforce Development and Employment Training Opportunities: Support job creation at all levels and 
strengthen pathways for economic mobility
4.
Increase workforce and affordable housing access: partner on housing and transportation efforts
5.
Enhance entertainment and cultural offerings: Strengthen commercial districts and diversify amenities 
6.
Maintain safe vibrant business districts: Strengthen public safety partnerships, crime prevention programs, 
placemaking activities, and marketing
7.
Align with General Plan 2040 and Downtown Specific Plan: Integrate with City planning priorities 
PARTNERSHIP ALIGNMENT
The Economic Development Work Plan also prioritizes collaboration with key community partners to maximize impact and 
leverage resources, including the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce, Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA), San 
Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA), The San Francisco Peninsula Tourism Group, NOVAworks, 
JobTrain, Job Seeker Center, and the College of San Mateo.
EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
The Economic Development Work Plan will be evaluated annually to ensure accountability and responsiveness to changing 
economic conditions. Progress will be measured through key indicators such as vacancy rates, sales tax revenue, 
unemployment trends, and broker inquiries. Implementation will be coordinated across City departments and with 
external partners such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA). Economic 
Development staff will provide quarterly updates through the City Council’s weekly reports, an annual progress report, and 
a Year 3 review.
513 of 551

--- page 514 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The proposed Economic Development Work Plan provides a clear path for implementation and continuous improvement. 
Staff recommends approval of the proposed Economic Development Work Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for the proposed Economic Development Work Plan and framework. No appropriation is 
required at this time. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft of Economic Development Work Plan (2026-2029)
Att 2 – Appendix A: Overview of Current Economic Landscape
Att 3 – Appendix B: Current and Planned Economic Development Initiatives 
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7009
514 of 551

--- page 515 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO –
 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WORK PLAN 
(2026–2029)
     
515 of 551

--- page 516 ---
~ 1 ~
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
In 2024, the City Council adopted a framework for a three-year Economic Development 
Work Plan to guide implementation, foster partnerships, and strengthen and diversify 
the City’s economic base. Building on this direction, the 2026–2029 Work Plan is 
designed to be flexible, data-driven, and responsive to changing market conditions. 
Developed in alignment with the City’s 2025 Strategic Plan and General Plan 2040, the 
Work Plan is grounded in stakeholder engagement, analysis of San Mateo’s economic 
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats, and cross-departmental review. The 
Work Plan will help staff advance the City’s economic priorities by building on existing 
strengths, expanding opportunities, and addressing emerging challenges. To ensure 
accountability and transparency, it incorporates annual performance reviews with key 
indicators such as vacancy rates and sales tax trends, along with regular progress 
updates to the City Council.
By focusing on economic resilience, diversification, and strong partnerships, the Work 
Plan advances the City’s commitment to a welcoming, adaptable, and inclusive 
economy that benefits residents, businesses, and visitors alike.
516 of 551

--- page 517 ---
~ 1 ~
517 of 551

--- page 518 ---
~ 2 ~
I. INTRODUCTION
San Mateo is an evolving city navigating changing economic conditions that present 
fiscal challenges, but also create opportunities for innovation, adaptation, and 
diversification of the tax base to ensure long-term resilience. With major development 
on the horizon and evolving regional economic trends, the City Council directed staff to 
prepare an Economic Development Work Plan. The Work Plan is designed to be 
adaptable and action-oriented, focusing on diversifying the tax base, strengthening 
economic vitality, retaining local businesses, and attracting new investment to ensure 
long-term economic stability.
The 2026–2029 Economic Development Work Plan builds on:
•
An analysis of San Mateo’s economic strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and 
threats
•
General Plan 2040 Goals related to Economic Development
•
Extensive stakeholder engagement with the San Mateo Area Chamber of 
Commerce, Downtown San Mateo Association, Commercial real estate brokers, 
developers, business owners, and residents
•
The City’s Strategic Plan 
518 of 551

--- page 519 ---
~ 2 ~
519 of 551

--- page 520 ---
~ 3 ~
II. SWOT SUMMARY 
After the City Council approved the initial Economic Development framework in 
November 2024, staff conducted extensive outreach with neighborhood business 
groups, brokers, community members, developers, and City departments to gather and 
synthesize input, which informed a summary of San Mateo’s economic strengths and 
weaknesses.
Strengths
❖Vitality - Walkable, vibrant Downtown with diverse 
restaurants and services
❖Connected - Three Caltrain stations – unique on the 
Peninsula
❖Amenities-Filled - Central Park and major shopping hubs 
(Hillsdale, Downtown, Bridgepointe, 25th Avenue)
❖Innovative - Dynamic startup and corporate ecosystem (AI, 
gaming, finance, biotech incubator, tech incubators)
❖Inclusive Community - Strong civic engagement, cultural 
diversity, and high quality of life
❖Strategically located in the region with close proximity to 
San Mateo Bridge
❖Strong restaurant presence  
❖Safe community
❖Parking– good parking access, with multiple public garages 
Downtown
❖Vibrant business nodes
Weaknesses
❖Hospitality - reduced hotel inventory, including loss of 
Marriot
❖Loss of neighborhood grocers  
❖Automotive – Only one new auto dealership in the City
❖Costs - High costs for real estate, insurance, and operations
❖Regulation - Perception of complex permitting and over-
regulation
❖Marketing - Limited marketing campaigns, ads, promotions 
and wayfinding for business districts
❖Sites - Limited vacant sites for development
Opportunities
❖Development - Attract new mixed-use and retail projects 
due to the passing of Measure T 
❖Attract and Retain-  large employers, high-revenue and 
growth-stage companies
❖Talent - Strengthen workforce pipelines through 
NOVAWorks, JobTrain, Job Seeker Center, and College of 
San Mateo
520 of 551

--- page 521 ---
~ 4 ~
❖Culture - Capitalize and attract arts, culture, conferences, 
conventions, sporting events, entertainment, and community 
events programming
❖New Mixed-Use Developments (SB330 Projects)
❖Downtown Plan starting in 2026
❖Parking - Provide signage and other strategies to increase 
awareness of various parking areas
❖Update regulations and streamline process – through the 
zoning code amendment, Downtown Plan, and General 
Plan, the City is working to modernize regulations and 
provide clearer timelines for applicants
❖Development review process streamlining
Threats
❖Retail - Declining brick-and-mortar retail sales to online 
sales
❖Housing - Regional housing affordability crisis
❖Costs - Rising interest rates and business costs
❖Competition - Competing retail centers in neighboring 
communities
❖Transit - Public transit access and last mile connections 
challenges
❖Uncertainty – unpredictable global and national economic 
conditions
A summary of the current economic landscape is provided in the appendices.
521 of 551

--- page 522 ---
~ 4 ~
522 of 551

--- page 523 ---
~ 5 ~
III. STRATEGIC GOALS 
These strategic goals provide a framework to guide decision-making, focus resources, 
and achieve measurable progress in economic development.
  
  1. Expand and Diversify Tax Revenue Sources 
     (Attraction, expansion, and retention of businesses across sectors)
  
 2. Foster a Business-Friendly Environment  
    (Reduce barriers, streamline permitting, and improve customer service)
   3. Support Workforce Development and Employment Training
      Opportunties 
   (Support job creation at all levels, strengthen pathways for economic mobility)
  4. Increase Workforce and Affordable Housing Access
     (Partner on housing and transportation efforts)
  5. Enhance Entertainment and Cultural Offerings
       (Strengthen commercial districts and diversify amenities) 
  6. Maintain Safe, Vibrant Business Districts 
    (Public safety partnerships, crime prevention programs, placemaking activities, 
and marketing) 
 7. Align with General Plan 2040 & Downtown Specific 
Plan
     (Intergrate with City's Planning priorities) 
523 of 551

--- page 524 ---
~ 5 ~
524 of 551

--- page 525 ---
~ 6 ~
IV. STRATEGIC GOALS & WORK PROGRAM
Guided by City Council direction and stakeholder input, the following detailed work 
program carries out the City’s seven strategic goals to foster a vibrant and resilient 
economy.
1.
Expand and Diversify Tax Revenue Sources
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Diversify commercial occupancies by hosting quarterly broker meetings to 
identify vacancies, subleases, and available properties
•
Grow and attract growth-stage businesses that generate consistent revenue and 
high-quality jobs to strengthen the City’s economic base and align with the City’s 
2025 Strategic Plan and General Plan 2040
•
Identify and pursue new revenue streams by exploring billboard policies, 
conducting economic assessments of City-owned properties, evaluating a 
business improvement district (BID) or property improvement district (PBID), and 
explore opportunities to increase general fund revenue
•
Leverage the existing incubator ecosystem by collaborating with San Mateo’s 
private incubators, venture capital firms to amplify resources for startups in AI, 
fintech, biosciences, software development, and direct investment
•
Monitor regional market trends to inform future land use and redevelopment 
strategies
•
Strengthen economic intelligence by tracking and analyzing economic 
development data, trends, and market activity
2. Foster A Business-Friendly Environment
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Increase social media engagement to amplify economic development 
messaging, strengthen community connections, and increase visibility
•
Expand support for minority-owned and small businesses by partnering with the 
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce, Downtown San Mateo Association, 
525 of 551

--- page 526 ---
~ 7 ~
Small Business Development Center, Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center, and 
other organizations that support minority-owned and small businesses 
•
Facilitate business expansion and investment by coordinating meetings between 
City staff and businesses pursuing development, attraction, or growth plans, while 
expanding express permitting options and streamlining tenant improvement 
permits
•
Promote business diversity by marketing San Mateo as a welcoming environment 
for businesses of all sizes and sectors
•
Promote and leverage federal and state programs, grants, and tax incentives to 
support business growth and investment
•
Recognize nonprofits, community partners, and intergovernmental service 
agencies and support their growth and presence 
•
Strengthen business retention and growth through proactive outreach to high-
revenue and high-employment companies (e.g., Sony, Roblox, Zynga, Franklin 
Templeton) to understand their needs and provide support for expansion and 
retention
•
Update the City’s Economic Development webpage to better connect business 
resources
3.
Support Workforce Development and Promote Training 
Opportunities
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•     Expand workforce training opportunities by collaborating with NOVAWorks, 
JobTrain, the Main Library’s Job Seeker’s Center, Worker’s Resource Center, 
and College of San Mateo
•    Coordinate programs to ensure students and displaced workers gain current, in-
demand skills by advising workforce boards on businesses employment needs
•
Leverage state and federal tax incentives to expand training and employment 
programs for businesses
•
Promote youth employment by connecting internships, apprenticeships, and 
career exploration programs with schools and employers
•
Support a diverse local economy by working with unions, trade organizations, 
and industry partners to expand access to high-quality jobs and career pathways
526 of 551

--- page 527 ---
~ 8 ~
4.
Increase Workforce and Affordable Housing Access
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Increase workforce housing needs through coordination with the City’s Housing 
Division and partnering with the business community, developers, and affordable 
housing providers
•
Strengthen the local economy by improving last-mile connections, reducing 
congestion, and expanding mobility through partnerships with organizations such 
as Commute.org, while advancing and refining the City’s Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) policies.
5. Enhance Entertainment and Cultural Offerings
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Capitalize on major regional sporting events and conference opportunities –by 
strengthening partnerships with Event Center and SF Peninsula and explore 
bringing additional conferences, tournaments, expos, weekend sports 
tournaments, and festivals to the City to help with tourism
•
Evaluate an Entertainment Zone to support nightlife and cultural activity 
•
Promote tourism and event-driven economic activity through special events and 
partnerships with the San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention and Visitors 
Bureau, the Chamber’s Fall Fest, DSMA programming, and September Nights on 
B to help increase vibrancy and attract new visitors to the City.
•
Support “shop local” initiatives and special events in partnership with the DSMA 
and Chamber, parks and recreation, and other organization interested in using 
events to promote San Mateo 
6.
Maintain Safe, Vibrant Business Districts
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Activate underutilized spaces with pop-ups, outdoor markets, and farmers 
markets to increase foot traffic and local spending
•
Collaborate with Police on the Business Watch program and their Real Time 
Information Center to provide a welcoming public safety presence in business 
districts
527 of 551

--- page 528 ---
~ 9 ~
•
Coordinate marketing campaigns with the San Mateo Area Chamber and DSMA 
to strengthen business district visibility
•
Develop wayfinding to enhance identity and improve visitor experience
•
Enhance the design, upkeep, and activation of the pedestrian mall, including 
public events and activity spaces
7.
Align with General Plan 2040 & Downtown Specific Plan
Key actions will involve working with partners to:
•
Conduct outreach and engagement on the development of the Downtown 
Plan
•
Identify private properties for redevelopment potential for highest and best 
use
•
Maximize Benefits of Measure T by promoting mixed-use development to 
strengthen connections between housing, retail, public benefits, and services
•
Streamline process development applications for SB330 housing projects
528 of 551

--- page 529 ---
~ 9 ~
529 of 551

--- page 530 ---
~ 10 ~
V. EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
•
Annual Economic Work Plan Review – Adjust strategies based on economic 
trends, and council direction
•
Key Performance Indicators – Vacancy rates, sales tax revenue, 
unemployment rate, Broker inquiries
•
Reporting – Quarterly City Council newsletter updates 
•
Review (Year 3): Reassess strategies and adjust based on economic trends.
•
Partnership Alignment: Continue coordination with the Chamber, Downtown 
San Mateo Association, and workforce stakeholders 
530 of 551

--- page 531 ---
Overview of the Current Economic Landscape
San Mateo’s economy is anchored by a diverse mix of industries, high household 
incomes, and a strong retail and culinary scene. Its central Peninsula location and 
unmatched connectivity to regional markets provide a competitive advantage. However, 
pressures from online retail, rising costs, and the shift to remote work require adaptive 
strategies to sustain long-term competitiveness.
The City spans approximately 11 square miles (excluding water areas) and features 
four prominent retail districts: Downtown, Hillsdale Shopping Center, Bay Meadows, and 
Bridgepointe Shopping Center.
Downtown San Mateo
Adjacent to Central Park, Downtown offers a vibrant mix of shops, 
restaurants, offices, housing, and a Century 12 movie theater. Well-known for 
its wide variety of global cuisines, Downtown is a pedestrian-friendly 
destination located along the Caltrain line and serves as a lively cultural and 
commercial center for the community and peninsula.
Hillsdale Shopping Center
A major regional mall featuring more than 100 stores, including anchors such 
as Trader Joe’s, Barnes & Noble, Macy’s, Nordstrom, and others, along with 
a diverse range of dining options. Conveniently accessible via Caltrain, 
Hillsdale is a key hub of retail activity on the Peninsula. Its latest expansion, 
North Block, adds additional shops like West Elm, Cinepolis, restaurants, and 
provides public gathering spaces for events and entertainment.
Bay Meadows
A modern, transit-oriented neighborhood blending residential, office, retail, 
and open space. Bay Meadows features restaurants, cafes, and services 
designed to serve both residents and visitors, with a strong emphasis on 
walkability, sustainability, and access to Caltrain. It is directly across Hillsdale 
Shopping Center. Major office users are Roblox, Survey Monkey, and 
Guidewire. 
Bridgepointe Shopping Center
A major retail destination offering a wide selection of national retailers, 
specialty stores, and dining options. Its location near Highway 92 provides 
convenient regional access, attracting shoppers from Foster City, Halfmoon 
and East Bay. 
531 of 551

--- page 532 ---
In addition to its four primary retail districts, San Mateo offers a variety of neighborhood 
shopping centers and retail nodes—such as 25th Avenue, Laurie Meadows, Laurelwood 
Shopping Center, Shoreview Shopping Center, Bel Mateo Plaza, Crystal Springs 
Village, 17th Avenue, and clusters along El Camino Real—that primarily serve the daily 
needs of surrounding neighborhoods.
Beyond retail, San Mateo has a diverse employment base anchored by fintech, gaming, 
healthcare, life sciences, and startups. Major employers—including Sony Interactive, 
Sutter Health, Kaiser, Franklin Templeton, and Roblox—contribute stability, innovation, 
and regional visibility. Retaining these industries is critical to sustaining jobs, tax 
revenues, and long-term economic resilience. Looking forward, San Mateo is also well-
positioned to attract complementary sectors such as AI/data services, expanded life 
sciences, and cleantech, which align with broader Bay Area strengths and support 
future growth.
San Mateo’s competitive advantages include its walkable urban fabric, vibrant 
downtown, unique transit access with three Caltrain stations, strong civic engagement, 
and high-performing schools. At the same time, the City faces challenges common 
across the Bay Area: high operating costs, a perception of overregulation, and ongoing 
housing affordability pressures. Still, there are opportunities to diversify retail offerings, 
recruit innovative growth-stage companies, and expand cultural programming with 
support from the Downtown Association and Chamber.
San Mateo is also dealing with bigger trends that threaten local businesses, like more 
people shopping online instead of in stores, the long-term shift to remote work and 
smaller office needs, uncertainty around interest rates, and stronger competition from 
nearby cities and global markets. Finally, the ups and downs of the national and world 
economy make planning harder, showing why flexible and resilient strategies are so 
important.
532 of 551

--- page 533 ---
Current and Planned Economic Development Initiatives:
Activation 
•
Activate Downtown with regular markets and events
•
Collaborate on a shared future vision for the Event Center to strengthen tourism, 
attract conferences, and support hotel development
•
Engage 25th Avenue businesses to explore and develop event activities 
•
Launch an Economic Development Vibrancy Committee
Development & Land Use
•
Advance Measure T implementation across the 10 Focus Areas identified in 
General Plan 2040
•
Initiate public engagement and planning for the Downtown Plan
•
Evaluate underutilized parcels for redevelopment opportunities
•
Maximize the highest and best use of City-owned property
•
Engage with retail broker consultant to ensure ground-floor spaces in new 
developments attract diverse tenants and create highly marketable leasing 
opportunities
•
Streamline the process for development permits and tenant improvement 
projects
Housing
•
Process and review fifteen SB330 housing project applications
•
Continue negotiations on Bespoke, a public-private partnership for a seven-
story, 71-unit 100% affordable housing project (with first-floor community space 
for Self Help for the Elderly), a six-story 156,000 sq. ft. commercial/office 
building, and 137 parking units
533 of 551

--- page 534 ---
Workforce Development & Public Safety
•
Advance workforce development through training, partnerships, and job 
placement
•
Collaborate with the Police Department to strengthen business district safety 
through the Business Watch Program
•
Coordinate with the County of San Mateo’s Office of Labor Standards and 
Enforcement to enforce the City’s minimum wage ordinance and wage theft 
protections
534 of 551

--- page 535 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10588
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Progress Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a progress report on the City Council Priority List for Fiscal Year 2025-26 and provide any direction to staff if any 
edits are desired. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal-setting process includes a three-step deliberation resulting in adoption of a City Council Priority List, 
which includes staff’s proposed work plan for each initiative for the upcoming fiscal year. The first step of the process was 
the City Council Blue Sky Workshop on February 22, 2025. At the workshop, the City Council reviewed the adopted Fiscal 
Year 2024-25 Priorities, removed completed and operationalized items, reorganized the projected completion timeline for 
existing priorities, and proposed new priorities to add to the list for Fiscal Year 2025-26. On May 5, 2025, City Council 
reviewed and formally adopted the Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priority List. Fiscal Year 2025-26 started on July 1, 
2025, and ends on June 30, 2026. This report focuses on the progress made from July 1 through October 10, 2025, and 
estimated progress through the end of the fiscal year. 
Staff has made progress on each of the one-year priorities and many of the longer-term priorities or has identified next 
steps for advancing these initiatives. The following are some examples:
•
Priority #7 is completed – The Council held a study session and provided policy direction on limiting overnight RV 
parking, which is now being implemented by the Police Department. 
•
Priority #11 is completed – The City Council Code of Conduct was updated. 
•
Priority #12 is completed – the Council held a study session on mobile vending and provided direction to staff, 
which is now being implemented. 
•
Priority #1 is completed – The Council adopted a Resolution documenting its agreed upon pathway toward a 
Sustainable Building Strategy. 
•
Priority #34 – Staff has made presentations to City Council on the Bellevue and Villa Terrace at-grade crossings, 
received direction for closures and phased implementation, and is now working on design and funding. 
•
Priority #17 – Construction commenced on structural repairs at the Marina Library in August 2025, with 
completion expected toward the end of 2026.  
Fiscal Year 2025-2026 will be the last year with priorities in the 1-Year, 2 to 5 Year, and 5 Years or More categories. In 
September, the City Council approved its first Citywide Strategic Plan with implementation set to begin on July 1, 2026, 
Fiscal Year 2026/27. With this new framework in place, the Council will be adopting SMART (Specific, Measurable, 
Achievable, Relevant, and Timebound) Activities instead of general priorities at the beginning of each year. Each Activity 
will fall into the category of one of the Council’s Strategic Initiatives, which were developed and agreed upon by Council 
535 of 551

--- page 536 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and are contained in the Plan. As a result, some of the existing priorities that remain incomplete and are fit for conversion 
into SMART Activities will be proposed for conversion, while some of the broader and longer-term priorities are absorbed 
into the Initiatives as well as the Goals identified throughout the Plan. The methods for reporting on progress is outlined in 
the new Strategic Plan.  
Staff recommends City Council review the existing Fiscal Year 2025-26 Priorities and the respective updates and provide 
direction to staff if any revisions are desired. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Fiscal Year 2025-26 Priority List Updates
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Reda, Senior Management Analyst
zreda@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 435-0823
536 of 551

--- page 537 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
1
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN FISCAL YEAR 2025/26
1
City 
Manager's 
Office
Establish policies to decarbonize 
existing buildings and infrastructure 
and eliminate methane gas use by 
2030.
Medium
Continue to conduct community outreach 
and provide education; present findings to 
Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission for recommendations to City 
Council; return to City Council final policy 
options and related resource needs for, 
Council direction.
Completed - Electrify San Mateo Sustainable 
Building Strategy adopted by Resolution.
2
City 
Manager's 
Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing 
Citywide Community Outreach and 
Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications 
team, continue to improve high interest 
webpages and work with staff Citywide to 
enhance public engagement, establish a 
townhall program, and develop civic 
engagement forums. Enhance customer 
service and community outreach training 
and education opportunities for staff 
citywide.
Community Engagement Handbook 
Completed; Citywide web team established; 
Communications Manager Oral Board set for 
Nov. 4; Citywide trainings for various 
communications tools underway; more to 
come, such as Townhalls and Mayoral Minute, 
with onboarding of Communications Manager. 
3
Public 
Works
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or 
process for reinvesting in 
infrastructure to allow the City to 
evaluate City facilities and assets 
when upgrades are needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to 
complete a Capital Improvement Program 
organizational assessment to optimize the 
process for identifying all City 
infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and 
assess the scheduling and budgeting 
methodologies. In addition, procure a 
consultant to complete a comprehensive 
facilities assessment to identify required 
improvements.
CIP organization assessment draft deliverable 
has been developed by the consultant and is 
under review. Target completion is June 2026. 
Citywide facilities assessment will be 
presented to City Council on October 20th. 
4
IT 
(reassigned 
from the 
CMO)
Explore a resolution affirming the 
City's commitment to integrate new 
technologies, such as artificial 
intelligence (AI), without displacing 
work force.
Low
Explore programs in use Countywide and 
what is already in use by staff and develop 
a plan to formalize integration of AI tools to 
assist staff without their displacement or 
compromising security.
Working on AI policy to set guidelines, usage, 
and protections for staff. 
537 of 551

--- page 538 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
2
5
Public 
Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation 
Review of progress on all ongoing 
plans, including project updates and 
key metrics such as City mode share, 
collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an 
annual transportation review to City 
Council.
The first annual transportation review was 
presented to City Council on June 2, 2025. The 
next annual transportation review is planned 
for June 2026. 
6
Public 
Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium 
/ High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption 
of ordinances as required by the California 
Vehicle Code to ensure speed limits on the 
City’s roadways are enforceable. Begin by 
developing an analysis and implementation 
strategy for systematic evaluation of our 
roadways.
Staff will be implementing a Request for 
Proposals process and selecting a consultant in 
Winter 2025, after which staff plans to do 
initital data preparation work in early 2026, 
before conducting the speed surveys. 
Certification is planned in Summer 2026, with 
the estimated completion of this effort in Fall 
2026. 
7
City 
Manager’s 
Office
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking 
in commercial corridors
Low
Explore policy and enforcement options 
and present study session to Council.
Study Session complete; policy direction being 
implemented.
8
City 
Manager’s 
Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo 
could partner with Sustainable San 
Mateo and Peninsula Clean Energy in 
"Charge Forward San Mateo," a 
countywide effort to ensure that 
residents have equitable access to 
electric vehicle (EV) charging 
infrastructure (and reduce the 
county's greenhouse gas emissions 
from transportation, currently 49% of 
the region's emissions). Possibilities 
include installing streetlight chargers 
near apartments and multifamily 
units; collaborating with Peninsula 
Clean Energy to identify apartment 
and multifamily contacts and offer 
financial and technical support for 
installing EV chargers; incentivize 
private employers to expand 
employee and customer EV charging.
Low
Conduct research, including how the City 
can work with PG&E, and hold a City 
Council study session.
This is planned for the first half of 2026.
538 of 551

--- page 539 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
3
9
City 
Manager’s 
Office
Develop and implement an ordinance 
to prohibit the use of gas leaf blowers 
within the City of San Mateo.
Low/ 
Medium
Draft an ordinance based on industry best 
practices for review and adoption by 
Council and develop an implementation 
and enforcement program.
SIC review and City Council Study Session 
complete; Ordinance being drafted for 
introduction at an upcoming meeting.
10
Police
Youth Service Officers at Schools – 
funding program.
Low/ 
Medium
City to work with the school districts over 
the next year to have the school districts 
help fund an additional school resource 
officer.
City Manager and Police Chief met with both 
Superintendents to request support. Also 
raised at 2x2 meetings. There has been no 
progress made to date.  
11
City Clerk, 
City 
Manager’s 
Office, City 
Attorney
Develop City Council Code of conduct 
with measurable consequences akin 
to the San Mateo County Board of 
Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Low
Hold workshop and revise/update Council 
Rules and Procedures
Completed
12
Community 
Develop- 
ment 
Develop policy on regulating mobile 
vending/food trucks
Low
Work with various departments to explore 
available policy and enforcement options 
and present to Council at a study session.
Study Session complete (9/15); Council policy 
direction being implemented.
13
Parks and 
Recreation
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and 
Beresford Senior Centers Senior 
Hubs: Expand our current senior 
programming offerings to better 
meet the needs of our senior 
community members by increasing 
the variety and frequency of events 
tailored specifically to seniors, such 
as adding options for engagement, 
socialization, and overall well-being. 
Also, investigate partnering with 
other organizations to provide 
coffee/tea or light refreshments that 
will enhance the overall experience 
but also encourage more 
participation by creating a welcoming 
and comfortable atmosphere.
Medium
Strategically identify which facilities(y) 
could best support piloting this type of 
program based on availability of space and 
staffing, and suitability of structure to 
remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, 
staffing, and outreach as needed to support 
the expansion of service.   
Compiled an inventory of all Senior 
Programming offered across all Recreation 
Facilites and Mobile Recreation.                             
Space has been allocated at MLK JR Center for 
Senior Hub and necessary space upgrades are 
in process.                                                                    
539 of 551

--- page 540 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
4
14
Public 
Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction 
projects by the end of FY 25/26.
Wastewater Treatment Plant (GMP 3) is on 
track to be in operation in late 2025 with 
construction complete in Spring 2026. 
Treatment Plant ribbon cutting ceremony 
completed September 2025. The El Camino 
Real package of collection system 
improvements will be completed in 
Spring/Summer 2026. Final lift station 
rehabilitation project (Las Prados, Kehoe Kelly, 
and Arroyo Lift Station Rehabilitation) will be 
complete in early 2027. 
15
City 
Manager's 
Office/ IT
Explore the implementation of a 
Customer Response Management or 
311 system.
High
Onboard consultant support and select a 
suitable CRM that will work with existing 
back-end systems.
Catalis was selected as CRM vendor. 
Agreement approved. Project kick-off on 
9/5/2025. Anticipate 12-16 week project 
timeline, depending on City side tasks. 
16
Parks & 
Recreation
Implement Phase 1 of the Central 
Park Master Plan.
High
Break ground and complete construction.
Construction began June 2025 – Project is 
currently on budget and on time for 
completion in late Fall of 2026
17
Library and 
Public 
Works
Address structural issues at the 
Marina Library.
High
Engage in construction work throughout 
2025. with completion targeted by the end 
of FY 25/26.
Construction began in August 2025, and is 
planned to extend for 16-18 months. In 
addition to necessary foundation and 
structural repairs, the work will involve 
mechanical, electrical, and plumbing 
upgrades; accessibility improvements; exterior 
and landscaping improvements; a newly 
updated interior; and a relocated deck. 
18
City 
Manager's 
Office/ 
Community 
Develop- 
ment
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), 
staff resources, structure, and process.
The City Manager's Office is currently 
exploring options and will bring the structure 
of a City Grant pilot to a City Council Study 
Session in Spring/early Summer 2026. 
540 of 551

--- page 541 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
4
541 of 551

--- page 542 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
5
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 2 TO 5 YEARS
19
City 
Manager's 
Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft 
protections.
High
Partner and work with the County's Office 
of Labor Standards and Enforcement.
Completed in July 2025. The City has a 
contract with OLSE to enforce minimum wage 
and wage theft investigations. 
20
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process 
for anticipated revenue from 
Measure CC.
Medium
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue 
and create a community budget in an 
amount <$100K. Report the results through 
quarterly updates.
The Department continues to monitor 
Measure CC revenue and has already received 
$1.7 million as of August 2025 for FY 25-26.
21
City 
Manager's 
Office and 
Public 
Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response 
and emergency preparedness.
High
Continue working with Office of Emergency 
Services on updates to the City's 
Emergency Operations Plan including 
associated staff training and exercises, 
ongoing training for staff roles and 
responsibilities at the Emergency 
Operations Center, and training on the 
transition to new virtual EOC software 
(Veoci); update departmental emergency 
plans and COOP/COGs; purchase 
emergency equipment; pursue flood 
control permitting and upgrades; evaluate 
City infrastructure for resilience and fitness 
during disaster/extreme events.
Emergency backpacks and Emergency 
Management Concepts 4-day EOC emergency 
response training in December. Field 
Maintenance staff recently met with 
Consolidated Fire to coordinate emergency 
access to the City's pump stations. 
22
Community 
Develop- 
ment
Implement the adopted General Plan.
High
Work on the Comprehensive Zoning Code 
Update with the consultant (PlaceWorks).
Work on the Comprehensive Zoning Code 
Update with the consultant (PlaceWorks) 
started in July.  Early work includes 
development of an outreach/engagement 
strategy, updating the Strive San Mateo 
website to house all Zoning Code Update 
resources, background research and 
coordination with other departments (CAO 
and PW). 
542 of 551

--- page 543 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
6
23
Community 
Develop- 
ment
Implement Housing Element Policies.
High
Continue implementation of all 2023-2031 
Housing Element policies and programs 
with a 2024/2025 and 2025/2026 target 
date.
Work on all HE policies and programs with a 
2025 target is ongoing and on track to meet 
committments. The Council adopted an 
Emergency Rental Assistance Program in July 
to support HE tenant protections goals, with 
additional tenant protection codes/policies 
coming back to Council in November. Code 
amendments to update the CIty's ADU 
Ordinance are also udnerway, with a Council 
public hearing anticipated in November. Work 
on amendments to the Housing Element per 
the settlement with HAC are underway, with 
public hearings anticipated in January 2026.
24
Public 
Works
Reconstruct all failed streets 
identified in the Smooth Streets 
program in San Mateo by 2026.
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 
2025 and award construction contract for 
Phase 5 Summer 2025. Phase 5 is the final 
phase of the Smooth Streets Program.
Phase 4 construction is complete. Currently 
waiting for PG&E and Calwater to lower 
shallow laterals and mains this fall and winter 
prior to placing Phase 5 out to bid. Estimating 
Phase 5 to be complete by December 2026.
25
Public 
Works
Replace all remaining high voltage 
circuits to improve safety and 
reliability of the street light system.
High
Construction for Phase 5 is planned for 
Summer 2025, with the schedule 
dependent upon PG&E. For Phase 4, design 
efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9-month lead time.
Phase 4 construction is delayed due to 
permitting issues with PG&E and remains in 
the design stage. Phase 5 is currently under 
construction and on track for completion by 
early 2026.
26
City 
Manager's 
Office
Implement a robust, year-round 
Downtown Activation Program as 
part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the 
vibrancy of Downtown.
While the committee has not yet been 
formally organized, activation efforts to 
support year-round Downtown vibrancy are 
already underway through the City's 
continued partnership and regular 
coordination meetings with the Chamber and 
DSMA e.g. monthly Headwest Market, West 
Coast Farmer's Market, and special events on 
the Pedestrian mall. 
543 of 551

--- page 544 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
7
27
Parks and 
Recreation; 
City 
Manager’s 
Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo 
could partner with the San Mateo 
Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and 
other public, private and nonprofit 
organizations to support "Empower 
San Mateo," a community 
collaborative model aiming to help 
1000 equity priority San Mateo 
students graduate and thrive. 
Possibilities include evaluating how 
our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and 
more) could be further activated to 
support these and other San Mateo 
students; considering 
expansion/piloting of programming 
that could help such students find 
internships and local work 
experience, including within the City 
itself.
Medium
Map out and identify inter-governmental 
and community stakeholder support. 
Affirm formal support from Both High 
School and Elementary School District 
School Boards. 
The City has looked to partner with the San 
Mateo Union High School. Recently, San 
Mateo participated in the SMUHS Volunteer 
Faire and performed outreach to make 
students aware of citywide volunteer 
opportunities.
28
Public 
Works
Prioritize planning, design, 
construction and maintenance of 
rapid transportation safety 
improvement projects citywide and 
ensure there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in 
existing and future plans into a prioritized 
list. Develop an implementation strategy 
that includes staff resources and funding 
for each phase (planning, design, 
construction and maintenance). Continue 
to progress in safety projects in design, 
such as: Delaware Safe Routes to School 
Protected Bike Lane, Hillsdale GAP Closure, 
3rd and Norfolk Safety Improvement 
Project.
The Quick-Build Mobility Program 
implementation strategy is still under 
development, with a draft internal eligibility 
policy in place. Program funds are currently 
supporting streamlined safety projects, 
including the Delaware SRTS, Hillsdale 
Boulevard & Alameda de las Pulgas Traffic 
Signal Project, and various other safety 
improvements. All projects in the workplan 
are progressing as planned, except for the 
Hillsdale GAP Closure Project, which is on hold 
due to staffing shortages.
544 of 551

--- page 545 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
8
29
City Clerk's 
Office & 
City 
Attorney's 
Office
Improve and strengthen democratic 
systems and decrease polarization.
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach 
to current and future voters by, including 
registration events, utilizing mailers, and 
collaborating with service organizations. 
Staff will continue to conduct post-election 
reviews and will add additional metrics and 
analysis as an enhancement to this review.
Completed. Post-election review conducted; 
Council direction implemented for campaign 
contribution limits adjustment and 
improvements to voluntary expenditure limits. 
Dashboard transparency and youth voter 
engagement initaitives fully operationalized. 
30
City 
Manager's 
Office and 
Human 
Resources
Work with schools, community 
colleges, businesses, and other 
organizations to expand youth and 
senior workforce development & 
civic leadership opportunities.
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult 
interns by partnering with organizations, 
such as Empowerment Through Action and 
local businesses, and centralizing 
internships. Improve our volunteer 
program to attract and retain volunteers, 
especially seniors. Develop a formal 
“Recruitment, Marketing, and Outreach 
Plan” for the City.
Planning to expand the volunteer program to 
the City's office environment has begun. Both 
the City Manager's Office and Human 
Resources have been exploring this work. 
More updates to come as we continue the 
process and establish specific tasks for the 
volunteer roles, which will be open to people 
of all ages. Of note, there seems to be special 
interest in the volunteer area from high school 
students. Human Resources has initiated the 
development of a Recruitment, Marketing, 
and Outreach Plan to expand recruitment and 
outreach activities in an effort to develop 
partnerships and build pipeline for City jobs. 
31
City 
Manager’s 
Office
Commission a citywide feasibility 
study for groups of San Mateo 
businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts 
(BIDs), including existing smaller 
districts outside of downtown, such 
as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs 
Shopping Center, and newer 
groupings such as sections of El 
Camino Real or downtown businesses 
that may wish to pursue a property-
based BID or other complementary 
structure to the existing Downtown 
San Mateo Association. 
Medium
/High
Conduct stakeholder mapping and 
identification in multiple targeted areas, 
create and conduct surveys, hold 
community meetings, visit businesses, etc. 
to gauge interest and needs and formulate 
what to present to Council at one or more 
study sessions.
This work has not yet started and is included 
in the 3- year Economic Development Work 
Plan for exploration.
545 of 551

--- page 546 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
9
32
City 
Manager’s 
Office, City 
Attorney’s 
Office
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail 
cannabis storefront in downtown
Low
Explore available policy options along with 
potential revenue generation and present 
options to Council at a study session.
This work has not yet started. Council directed 
staff to push out the work to the 2-to-5-year 
project timeline.
33
City 
Manager’s 
Office, 
Public 
Works, 
Community 
Develop- 
ment
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to 
establish a comprehensive strategy 
for resiliency and adaptation against 
sea level rise and flooding to ensure 
we are well poised for funding 
opportunities and include Foster City 
and Burlingame in planning efforts.
High
Use grant funding to commence this 
planned work, including consultant 
selection, ensuring all pertinent 
departments and our neighboring cities are 
included and any attention needed is given 
toward the future of the levy.
Work on the Climate Adaptation Plan is 
underway. Staff has selected a consultant and 
submitted the Notice of Intent to prepare the 
plan to BCDC. The consultant is currently 
preparing the Existing Conditions section of 
the plan, which will lay the foundation for 
possible strategies considered by the plan. 
34
Public 
Works
Minimize impacts to residents from 
train horn noise at City at-grade 
crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety 
measures required for Train Horn Noise 
Quiet Zone (Quiet Zone) qualification as 
quickly as possible. Staff to work with FRA 
and required stakeholders (e.g. CPUC, 
Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
administrative steps to establish Quiet 
Zone by end of calendar year 2025.
Train Quiet Zone implementation is slated for 
Q4 2026/Q1 2027. Staff received directions 
from Council on full closures at Villa Terrace 
and Bellevue through phased implementation. 
Staff is continuing design for both locations 
and are currently working with regulatory 
stakeholders on funding at Villa Terrace. 
546 of 551

--- page 547 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
9
547 of 551

--- page 548 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
10
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
35
Public 
Works
Expedite efforts to improve the 
stormwater collection, drainage, and 
storage system, including dredging 
the Marina lagoon.
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year 
Capital Improvement Plan based on 
Stormwater Master Plan Update. Initiate 
and complete environmental approval 
process for dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Begin implementation of other highly 
prioritized stormwater capital 
improvement projects as funding and 
resources allow.
Consultant anticipates having a prioritized 
Capital Improvement Plan for the storm drain 
system by early 2026. PW to review the Plan 
and implement as funding and resources 
allow. Environmental approval process for full 
dredging of Marina Lagoon has not yet 
commenced, but a "spot" dredging effort will 
be commencing in Spring 2026.
36
Public 
Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2035.
High
Complete design and initiate construction 
of City Hall/City Plaza EV charging 
infrastructure improvements by end of 
calendar year 2025. Seek additional grant 
funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD EV 
charging infrastructure improvements.
City Hall and Corp Yard EV Infrastructure 
projects are underway, working through the 
design phase. PD EV Infrastructure project is in 
the concept phase. Vehicle replacements with 
EVs have been prioritized with planned 
replacement of 12 existing gasoline/diesel 
vehicles with Battery Elecric options this Fiscal 
Year. Staff is working on a redesign of EV 
infrastructure to incorporate ADA compliance 
at City Hall and will adjust the project timeline.
37
Public 
Works
Expedite efforts to provide high 
quality effluent from the wastewater 
treatment plant upgrades to support 
the future production of potable 
water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula 
Pure Water (formerly San Francisco 
Peninsula Regional Purification) project to 
pursue a wastewater purification facility at 
the Silicon Valley Clean Water facility in 
Redwood Shores.
The City remains involved in discussions. 
Recently, Public Works met with Burlingame 
officials to discuss possible water reuse 
synergies between the two cities with respect 
to overall regional planning and will be 
meeting with CalWater in October 2025 to 
further discuss its potential interest in 
recycled water.
38
Public 
Works
Study resource feasibility for the 
downtown grade separations and 
long-term train corridor 
improvements.
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant 
writer, and design consultant to implement 
the feasibility study.
Staff is leveraging the City grant writing 
consultant to identify grant opportunities for a 
feasibility study. Most grants related to grade 
separations are often federal discretionary 
funding that are currently being reviewed by 
the Department of Transportation.
548 of 551

--- page 549 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
11
39
Public 
Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and 
Fashion Island Boulevard from Grant 
to Mariners Island Boulevard.
High
The City is working with the San Mateo 
County Transportation Agency (TA) and 
leading the implementation of this project, 
with funding a constraint. Staff will 
continue working with the TA to evaluate 
options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, 
with the design efforts start date currently 
unconfirmed.
The project is at 35% design and progressing 
on schedule. Recent public engagement 
included a community meeting in July 2025 
and a City Council meeting on September 15, 
2025. An additional community meeting is 
planned before the end of 2025.
40
Public 
Works
Complete all High and Medium-High 
priority projects in the 2020 Bicycle 
Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan with the goal of 
prioritizing quick-build projects 
where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into 
the Bike San Mateo Program to expedite 
the design and delivery of all High and 
Med-High bicycle projects. This will include 
quick-build bicycle projects. Identify all 
incomplete PMP projects and develop a 
workplan for expedited completion. Some 
major projects complete/substantially 
underway.
Projects such as the Delaware SRTS, 19th 
Avenue Fashion Multi-Modal, 3rd and Norfolk 
intersection improvement, South B Street 
Class II and various others are progressing 
accordingly.
41
Public 
Works
Expedite efforts to improve and build 
climate resiliency into the City’s 
stormwater collection, conveyance, 
flood control, and levee systems, 
including dredging the Marina 
lagoon.
High
Near Term (1-3 years): 
 
 
 
 
 
         Adopt an updated Storm Drain 
Master Plan including a prioritized, long-
term Capital Improvement Program.
Consultant anticipates having a prioritized 
Capital Improvement Plan for storm drain 
system by early 2026. Staff will be bringing an 
update to Council on the SDMP in January 
2026. PW will incorporate projects/funding 
into the 2026 Capital Improvement Program 
as appropriate.
 
 
 
 
         Complete Marina Lagoon Spot 
Dredging design and construction.
Design is complete and project was advertised 
in June 2025. Project received single bid which 
was rejected due to higher-than-expected bid. 
Staff received Council approval to negotiate 
with sole bidder, and if negotiations are 
549 of 551

--- page 550 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
12
unsuccessful, will re-bid in final quarter of 
2025.
 
 
 
 
         Explore options for providing 
additional pumping capacity at the Marina 
Lagoon Pump Station and increasing overall 
resiliency for climate change and more 
intense storm events.  
Staff advertised an RFP for a Physical Modeling 
Study in July 2025. Staff received two 
proposals, and after review of proposals will 
conduct interviews prior to selecting 
consultant. Study will indicate to what extent 
existing pumps/system configuration are 
capable of providing increased 
pumping/lagoon storage capacity as well as 
provide recommendations on modifications 
which can be safely implemented (if any).
 
 
 
 
         Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation 
Plan to establish a comprehensive strategy 
for resiliency and adaptation against sea 
level rise and flooding, including a 
prioritized list of projects, and in 
accordance with BCDC Regional Shoreline 
Adaptation Plan requirements. 
City retained a consultant (ESA) to prepare 
Adaptation Plan. A Notice of Intent was 
submitted to BCDC informing BCDC of City's 
intent to prepare a Regional Shoreline 
Adaptation Plan. Consultant is commencing an 
Existing Conditions Assessment.
 
 
 
 
         Pursue funding for implementation 
of a comprehensive flood management 
study with the Army Corps of Engineers per 
the City’s federal Water Resources 
Development Act authorization.  
Will work with Federal consultant on potential 
federal funding opportunities.
 
 
 
 
         Initiate design on high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan
No updates, pending completion of a 
prioritized list of capital improvements.
 
 
 
 
Medium Term (4-5 years):
 
 
 
 
 
         Complete design, environmental 
review, and permitting process for large-
scale maintenance dredging of the Marina 
Lagoon. 
Staff plans to prepare an RFP for this effort in 
Q3 of FY25/26.
550 of 551

--- page 551 ---
Fiscal Year 2025-26 City Council Priorities
#
Dept 
Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
November 2025 Progress
13
 
 
 
 
         Begin implementation of high 
priority stormwater capital improvement 
projects identified in the Storm Drain 
Master Plan.
No updates, pending completion of near-term 
storm drain master planning efforts.
 
 
 
 
         Collaborating with relevant 
stakeholders, pursue prioritized funding for 
shoreline adaptation projects as identified 
in the Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
No updates, pending completion of near-term 
adaptation efforts.
 
 
 
 
Long Term (6+ years):
 
 
 
 
 
         Continue implementing priority 
projects from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
No updates
 
 
 
 
         Initiate design, environmental 
review, and permitting on priority shoreline 
adaptation projects
No updates
551 of 551