Police stop installing surveillance cameras in Saranac Lake. For now | NCPR News Listen On now: Loading program data... Podcasts Schedule Donate North County Public Radio - NPR for the Adirondack North Country Menu News Northern Light Story of the Day Latest News NCPR Special Series NCPR News Team Topics Agriculture Book Reviews Climate Crime and Punishment Economic and Business Education Environmental News Food and Hunger Gardening Health History of the Region Immigration Music & Arts North Country at Work: Next Generation Outdoor Recreation Poetry Politics and Government Science & Technology UpNorth Gallery of Art Music The Beat Authority The Dean's List The Folk Show Global Heartbeat Jazz @ The Ten Spot Music in the Shadows The Radio Bob Show String Fever The Thread The Three O'Clock Special Trail Mix Underscore Music heard on NCPR Shows If All Else Fails North Words Northern Light Story of the Day The Howl Underscore On-air Program Schedule More Support NCPR Sponsorship Listen Live Photo of the Day Artwork of the Week Weather Calendar Closings About NCPR NCPR Podcasts Subscribe Apple Spotify Google TuneIn Amazon RSS Subscribe Apple Spotify Google Amazon RSS Subscribe Apple Spotify Amazon Google RSS Subscribe Apple Spotify Google Amazon RSS Subscribe Apple Spotify Google Amazon RSS Police stop installing surveillance cameras in Saranac Lake. For now Share Mar 02, 2026 — by Richard Haller (News Intern) A Flock Safety license plate reader is seen along a public road, Thursday, Oct. 16, 2025, in Houston. (AP Photo/David Goldman) Mar 02, 2026 — The Village of Saranac Lake has stopped installing surveillance cameras. In a statement, Saranac Lake Mayor Jimmy Williams said the project has been halted until the Police Chief returns from a trip to the FBI academy. Williams said they are listening to the community's concerns and will work with the Village Board, Police, and public to make a final decision on the cameras. Last week, the Village Police Department said it was installing Flock Safety Cameras around the village to identify vehicles connected to criminal activity. A report from the Adirondack Daily Enterprise said that three cameras are already installed throughout the village, and that 6 were planned in total. NCPR provides this essential service . You provide your essential support . You put the "public" in this public service . Donations from you and your neighbors are a big part of what makes our quality journalism possible. Please make a donation now to support NCPR's continuing efforts to be everything you count on us to be . Donate Now The cameras sparked a divided reaction online. Some people said they’re concerned that they threaten privacy and civil liberties. Similar cameras have been installed in cities and towns across the state, including Albany, Syracuse, and Ithaca. According to an unofficial online database, they’re also in Gouverneur, Lowville, and Plattsburgh. Related Topics saranac lake · flock saftey cameras · police · crime NCPR is supported by: Comments Feel like talking about this? Join us on Facebook . More from NCPR Longtime Canton historian Linda Casserly dies at 79 Annie in the Water drops new EP; release party tonight in Burlington Videos Show Upstate Cops Calling Border Patrol on Drivers This weekend in the Adirondacks: A mixed bag of springtime conditions North Words: NPR's Scott Simon shows us the voice he uses for his French Poodle. Advocates Say 'Chaos' Is Mounting as Counties Implement New SNAP Rules ‘Still incomplete’: Key questions unanswered on New York state budget North Star Health Alliance to get $60 million loan from NYS North Country at Work: Lowville native builds regional water infrastructure and community for young workers Tens of thousands of NY families have lost child care assistance. Will the state budget fix that? Olympic venues saw record tourism visits during the last fiscal year North Country Olympians named to Fall 2026 USA Luge team How Adirondack businesses came to rely on a federal student visa program Contact NCPR North Country Public Radio St. Lawrence University Canton, New York 13617 1-877-388-6277 • radio@ncpr.org NCPR is a proud affiliate of: National Public Radio American Public Media Public Radio International Public Radio Exchange © 2026 North Country Public Radio Radio Schedule FM Frequencies NCPR Shows News/Talk Music/Arts Podcasts About Award-winning NCPR Our Staff News Team Contact NCPR Comments Submissions Subscriptions Jobs at NCPR Station Governance Executive Council FCC Public Inspection Files FCC Applications Support NCPR Donate Donate via PayPal MemberCard Sponsorship Planned Giving Endowment NCPR Funders Vehicle Donation