--- page 1 ---
CRIME
The shootings took place during the weekend of May 16 and May 17.
BUDA, Texas — The Buda Police Department announced Friday that the Austin shooting
spree that happened on May 16 and May 17 is also connected to another shooting that took
place in Buda.
Detectives with Buda police discovered that a shooting took place on the morning of May 17,
in the 500 block of Main Street in Buda. 
The agency said this incident is tied to the shooting spree that took place in South Austin
that involved 12 separate shootings. 
Austin police arrested three teenagers for last weekend's shooting spree and said a total of
four people were injured. 
Buda shooting linked to Austin
shooting spree using Flock Safety
camera data, police say
Author: Kate Norum, Jose Alonzo
Published: 4:24 PM CDT May 22, 2026
Updated: 11:19 PM CDT May 22, 2026
Close Ad

--- page 2 ---
Buda police said just after 5 a.m. on Sunday officers were dispatched to the location after a
security alarm was activated by a broken glass sensor.
Becky Torres, the owner of Siren Beauty + Wellness on Main Street,said it was her shop that
was damaged. When she arrived, Torres found several bullet casings, damage to the business'
glass windows and to its interior and exterior walls. Detectives used evidence from the scene
and Flock Safety camera data that tied the two shooting incidents together. 
"We know the vehicle, and so that's a contributing factor to what ties to the Austin
shootings," said Matt Schima, the public information officer for Buda PD.
Before the connection was made, Torres was left with anxiety thinking she was being
targeted after she said a total of 12 rounds were shot into her building. 
"This is a place where people come and feel safe," she said. "I just wanted people to continue
to feel that this is not going to define us. We're going to continue doing what we love and
taking care of people. I'm glad we have closure now."
Buda police said no one was in the building when gunfire broke out, but this crime still leaves
Torres with uncertainty. 
"It's really shocking and surprising that they're teenagers," Torres said. "What can we do? Like,
what can we do to make a difference? I want to empathize for whatever it is that has caused
these actions and these feelings. They're deeper than we can understand, and we need more
support for the individuals who are doing these things."
This shooting is being investigated as deadly conduct, a third-degree felony. Police said
additional charges may be added. 
Schima said police will continue to make sure Buda remains a safe tourist hotspot. 
Anyone with new information regarding this incident is urged to contact Detective Raul
Valdez at rvaldez@budatx.gov or send an anonymous tip through the Hays County Crime
Stoppers by calling 1-800-324-TIPS(8477). 
The investigation remains ongoing.

--- page 3 ---
