Luling police: Man threatening mass shooting arrested after multi-agency pursuit | kvue.com Skip Navigation Share on Facebook Share on SMS Share on Email Navigation News Back Local ATXtoday Near Me Health Nation World Defenders Life Entertainment Money Politics Community Features Latest News Stories Empowered Café reopens in Austin with mission to create jobs for people with Down syndrome Small gator goes for a swim in Katy, Texas swimming pool...and doesn't want to leave Weather Back Forecast Radar 7-Day Hourly Maps Closing & Delays Traffic Weathercams Blogs Allergy Latest Weather Stories Today's Allergy Report Forecast: Rain and storms move out by Wednesday morning Sports Back High School Sports Austin FC University of Texas Longhorns Locked On Podcast Network Latest Stories Austin FC fires head coach, sporting director after rough opening stretch Texas State slugger Chase Mora breaks MLB star Paul Goldschmidt’s home run record Right Now Austin, TX » 68° Austin, TX » Weather Closings Advertise With Us Local Defenders Boomtown Sports Honor Flight Radar Forever Families Allergies TV Listings Breaking News More ( ) » Crime Luling police: Man threatening mass shooting arrested after multi-agency pursuit Police used the Flock Safety camera system to track the suspect, who had left the city and was traveling south on U.S. Highway 183. Credit: KVUE Author: Kate Norum Published: 3:20 PM CDT May 19, 2026 Updated: 3:20 PM CDT May 19, 2026 LULING, Texas — A man allegedly threatened his wife and said he would carry out a mass shooting at a local business, the Luling Police Department said Friday, May 15. Officers received reports of the incident around 9 a.m. and responded with assistance from the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office, Precinct 2 Constable’s Office, Texas Department of Public Safety, and the Guadalupe and Gonzales county sheriff’s offices. Authorities secured the business, checked on employees and patrons, and searched the area for the suspect and his vehicle. Police used the Flock Safety camera system to track the suspect, who had left the city and was traveling south on U.S. Highway 183. The Gonzales County Sheriff’s Office located the vehicle, pursued it and took the suspect into custody. The suspect’s identity has not been released. It was not immediately clear what charges he may face. More in Crime Timeline of crimes released as 3 teens arrested after shooting spree Austin shooting spree renews discussion of LPRs 3 teens arrested after shooting, car theft spree in Austin Close Ad To stream KVUE on your phone, you need the KVUE app. Download the KVUE app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video In Other News Teen recovering after being injured during Austin-area shooting spree Before You Leave, Check This Out Jobs Terms of Service Privacy Policy Ad Choices EEO Public File Report FCC Online Public Inspection File Closed Caption Procedures Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 2026 KVUE-TV. All Rights Reserved.