Buda shooting linked to Austin shooting spree using Flock Safety camera data, police say | kvue.com Skip Navigation Share on Facebook Share on SMS Share on Email Navigation News Back Local ATXtoday Near Me Health Nation World Defenders Life Entertainment Money Politics Community Features Latest News Stories Weather Impact Alert | Flood threat ramps up Tuesday night into Wednesday Forecast: Another round of storms moves in Tuesday evening Weather Back Forecast Radar 7-Day Hourly Maps Closing & Delays Traffic Weathercams Blogs Allergy Latest Weather Stories Weather Impact Alert | Flood threat ramps up Tuesday night into Wednesday Forecast: Another round of storms moves in Tuesday evening Sports Back High School Sports Austin FC University of Texas Longhorns Locked On Podcast Network Latest Stories Texas to host NCAA Baseball Austin Regional as No. 6 seed Tom Brady-backed trading card shop set to open May 27 in Austin Right Now Austin, TX » 71° Austin, TX » Weather Closings Advertise With Us Local Defenders Boomtown Sports Honor Flight Radar Forever Families Allergies TV Listings Breaking News More ( ) » Crime Buda shooting linked to Austin shooting spree using Flock Safety camera data, police say The shootings took place during the weekend of May 16 and May 17. To stream KVUE on your phone, you need the KVUE app. Download the KVUE app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Author: Kate Norum, Jose Alonzo Published: 4:24 PM CDT May 22, 2026 Updated: 11:19 PM CDT May 22, 2026 BUDA, Texas — The Buda Police Department announced Friday that the Austin shooting spree that happened on May 16 and May 17 is also connected to another shooting that took place in Buda. Detectives with Buda police discovered that a shooting took place on the morning of May 17, in the 500 block of Main Street in Buda. This story continues below. More in Crime Buda shooting connected to South Austin shooting spree Buda police investigating shooting tied to Austin spree Suspect in Austin-area shooting spree faces new charges The agency said this incident is tied to the shooting spree that took place in South Austin that involved 12 separate shootings. Austin police arrested three teenagers for last weekend's shooting spree and said a total of four people were injured. Buda police said just after 5 a.m. on Sunday officers were dispatched to the location after a security alarm was activated by a broken glass sensor. Becky Torres, the owner of Siren Beauty + Wellness on Main Street,said it was her shop that was damaged. When she arrived, Torres found several bullet casings, damage to the business' glass windows and to its interior and exterior walls. Detectives used evidence from the scene and Flock Safety camera data that tied the two shooting incidents together. "We know the vehicle, and so that's a contributing factor to what ties to the Austin shootings," said Matt Schima, the public information officer for Buda PD. Before the connection was made, Torres was left with anxiety thinking she was being targeted after she said a total of 12 rounds were shot into her building. "This is a place where people come and feel safe," she said. "I just wanted people to continue to feel that this is not going to define us. We're going to continue doing what we love and taking care of people. I'm glad we have closure now." Buda police said no one was in the building when gunfire broke out, but this crime still leaves Torres with uncertainty. "It's really shocking and surprising that they're teenagers," Torres said. "What can we do? Like, what can we do to make a difference? I want to empathize for whatever it is that has caused these actions and these feelings. They're deeper than we can understand, and we need more support for the individuals who are doing these things." This shooting is being investigated as deadly conduct, a third-degree felony. Police said additional charges may be added. Schima said police will continue to make sure Buda remains a safe tourist hotspot. Anyone with new information regarding this incident is urged to contact Detective Raul Valdez at rvaldez@budatx.gov or send an anonymous tip through the Hays County Crime Stoppers by calling 1-800-324-TIPS(8477). The investigation remains ongoing. Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out Jobs Terms of Service Privacy Policy Ad Choices EEO Public File Report FCC Online Public Inspection File Closed Caption Procedures Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 2026 KVUE-TV. All Rights Reserved.