--- page 1 ---
Advertisement
Advertisement
✕
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Disrupt 2026
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters

--- page 2 ---
PRIVACY
Flock Safety’s solar-powered cameras
could make surveillance more
widespread
Haje Jan Kamps
7:29 AM PDT · May 16, 2024
IMAGE CREDITS: FLOCK SAFETY
Flock Safety is a multibillion-dollar startup that’s got eyes everywhere. As
of Wednesday, with the company’s new Solar Condor cameras, those eyes
are solar-powered and use wireless 5G networks to make them all that
much easier to install.
Adding solar power to the mix means that the company’s mission to
blanket the country with cameras just got a lot easier. The company says
that its Condor camera system is powered by “advanced AI and ML that is
constantly learning with cutting-edge video analytics” to adapt to
changing needs, and that “With solar deployment, Condor cameras can
be placed anywhere.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 3 ---
However, the company has drawn resistance and scrutiny from some
privacy advocates, including the ACLU.
“The company has so far focused on selling automatic license plate
recognition (ALPR) cameras,” writes the ACLU in a report back in 2022,
finding ethical problems with tracking cars with networked tracking as
they traveled around. The ACLU has recommended that communities
reject Flock Safety’s products. Last year, it published a guide for how to
slow down mass surveillance with the company’s products.
Flock Safety is an extraordinarily well-funded startup. PitchBook reports
that the company has raised more than $680 million to date, at a valuation
of close to $5 billion, including from a16z’s American Dynamism fund,
which has deployed money into law-and-order products, including police
drones, corporate legal subpoena response, autonomous water defense
drones and 911 call response systems.
It also claims to be effective at helping law enforcement track criminals:
The firm says that 10% of reported crime in the U.S. is solved using its
technology.
The problem is that Flock Safety doesn’t exactly have the best track
record for accuracy. In New Mexico, police mistakenly treated some
drivers as potentially violent criminal suspects and held them at gunpoint
after the firm’s cameras misread license plates, according to KOAT Action
News. The company was also reportedly sued when an Ohio man was
allegedly wrongfully identified as a human trafficking suspect. The lawsuit
was later dismissed. The company has drawn scrutiny in general about
the privacy risks with nationally shared databases.
Silicon Valley goes to war
Advertisement

--- page 4 ---
GIVE THEM A POLE AND THEY’LL GIVE YOU A CAMERA.
IMAGE CREDITS:FLOCK SAFETY
A report from the Science, Technology, and Public Policy program at the
University of Michigan concludes that “Even when ALPRs work as
intended, the vast majority of images taken are not connected to any
criminal activity,” and herein lies the problem: Filming everything all the
time necessarily brings some privacy challenges with it.
‘Several tens of thousands’ of cameras
When you blanket the country in cameras, it stands to reason that the
frequency of times that an individual car is spotted goes up. About a
decade ago, the Supreme Court decided that tracking a car using a GPS
tracker for more than 28 days violates the Fourth Amendment rule against
unreasonable search and seizure.
It becomes a philosophical question at this point: How many data points
of number plate recognition do you need before a networked array of
cameras is able to track a vehicle with a similar resolution as GPS? I put
that question to the chief strategy officer at Flock Safety, Bailey Quintrell.
Advertisement

--- page 5 ---
“A GPS tracker has your location essentially, live — every second or so,
depending on how it’s set up,” Quintrell said in an interview with
TechCrunch, after confirming that there are “several tens of thousands”
of the company’s cameras in operation. “With our cameras, they are
installed in the public view, clearly visible there. Maybe that sounds
numerous. But on a national scale, it’s actually not that many.”
That might be true on a national level, but density can be much higher in
some communities. In Oakland, California, where I live, Governor Newsom
recently announced a plan to cover the town with cameras.
“With the installation of this 480 high-tech camera network, we’re
equipping law enforcement with the tools they need to effectively combat
criminal activity and hold perpetrators accountable,” Newsom said in a
statement in March this year.
Still, Quintrell claims that even high-density camera coverage is a huge
issue.
“So it’s a very different level of information than like, say, a GPS tracker,”
says Quintrell, refuting my suggestion that perhaps cameras are
comparable to GPS if the density gets high enough. “I think the point
[where we know where everyone is at all times] is pretty far away. There’s a
lot of road miles, a lot of intersections, a lot of parking lots, a lot of
driveways. I don’t know the numbers there, but it’s a lot more than the
number of cameras that we sold.”
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 6 ---
True, perhaps, but the company boasts of being “trusted by more than
5,000 communities across the country,” and ultimately, with its investors
breathing down its neck, the company is showing little inclination to slow
down its rollout.
CHECKING OUT THE FOOTAGE FROM ONE OF THE NEW FLOCK SOLAR CONDOR CAMERAS.
IMAGE CREDITS:FLOCK SAFETY
Data retention
One of the big challenges with camera technology is how long the
cameras are storing footage and data. Flock suggests it stores data for a
month by default.
“[Data] is stored on the device for 30 days, and then it is either viewed live,
or you can download it from the device,” Quintrell confirms.
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 7 ---
That data retention policy is one of the things ACLU specifically has a
problem with, arguing that a 72-hour policy should be plenty for video
footage, but the organization is pushing for data to be “deleted and
destroyed by Flock no more than three minutes after photos or data are
first captured.”
The ears and eyes of the police department
We live in a complex world where many police departments are struggling
to hire the staff they need, and where a degree of video surveillance or AI-
augmented policing might help make up the shortfall. I asked Flock’s
strategy boss what he is most excited about.
“The most exciting thing? There are a lot of places where a lot of crime
happens, and where there is no way to capture objective evidence (…) Law
enforcement is finding it harder to hire people. So hiring is down, and
retail crime has continued to grow explosively, which ends up costing all
of us. It just ends up raising the price of everything,” says Quintrell.
“If you’re a police department, it’s so hard to hire people that are willing to
wear a badge and do a really hard job. Just let us help you get the
evidence from the places you need it, whether it’s the intersections or
parks or your business customer: you’re just trying to keep your inventory
from walking out the door without being paid for. [Solar Condor] turns a
really complicated, expensive construction project into something simple.
We just need a few hours of sunlight and a place to put a pole, and we can
help you solve this problem.”
It’s hard to argue with the fact that it’s hard to hire cops these days, and I
have no doubt that with solar power, the logistical issue of ubiquitous
Advertisement

--- page 8 ---
camera coverage just got a lot easier. But with great (solar) power comes
great responsibility — and the question becomes whether a camera
network run by a private, for-profit company has the right level of
oversight and responsibility required to make up for the shortfall.
UPDATE: The story has been updated to reflect that one of the lawsuits
was later dismissed.
Topics:
Hardware
opinion editorial
Privacy
Security
When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn’t affect our
editorial independence.
Haje Jan Kamps
 
 
 
At TechCrunch, Haje (He/Him) covered general tech news and focused mostly on hardware.
He has founded several companies to varying degrees of success, spent a while in the VC…
View Bio 
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 9 ---
November 4
Boston
Last chance to save up to $190 on
TechCrunch Founder Summit. Join
1,000+ founders and VCs at all stages for
real-world scaling insights and
connections that move the needle.
Savings end June 26, 11:59 p.m. PT.
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
After $18B IPO, Bending Spoons
founder says success comes from
minimizing luck
The ‘Father of the Internet’ is
finally retiring
OpenClaw is finally available on
Android and iOS
Chamath Palihapitiya raises
$135M Series A for his AI coding
startup, takes CEO role
Flipper Device’s new Busy Bar is a
customizable display for
productivity
Ford rehires ‘gray beard’
engineers after AI falls short
Govee’s smart nugget ice maker
makes every iced drink feel like a
Advertisement

--- page 10 ---
Loading the next article
luxury
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Crunchboard Jobs
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
SpaceX IPO
Anthropic
Cursor
Snap
Fable 5
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
Advertisement

--- page 11 ---
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.

Advertisement
