Watch Flock Safety CEO Garrett Langley discuss the future of surveillance at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026 | TechCrunch Skip to content –:–:–:– Last day to exhibit your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders at Disrupt is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. Disrupt doors open Oct. 13. Get your pass and bring someone with you at 50% off. REGISTER NOW. Close TechCrunch Desktop Logo TechCrunch Mobile Logo Latest Startups Venture Apple Security AI Apps Disrupt 2026 Events Podcasts Newsletters Search Submit Site Search Toggle Mega Menu Toggle Topics Latest AI Amazon Apps Biotech & Health Climate Cloud Computing Commerce Crypto Enterprise EVs Fintech Fundraising Gadgets Gaming Google Government & Policy Hardware Instagram Layoffs Media & Entertainment Meta Microsoft Privacy Robotics Security Social Space Startups TikTok Transportation Venture More from TechCrunch Staff Events Startup Battlefield StrictlyVC Newsletters Podcasts Videos Partner Content TechCrunch Brand Studio Contact Us Image Credits: Danielle Parhizkaran / The Boston Globe / Getty Images Startups Watch Flock Safety CEO Garrett Langley discuss the future of surveillance at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026 TechCrunch Events 7:30 AM PDT · July 20, 2026 The debate over where the line should be drawn between privacy and public safety has only intensified in the AI era. And Flock Safety , a company that has seen both an influx of investment and an intense public backlash, sits right at the center of that debate. That’s why at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026 , we’re bringing Flock’s founder and CEO Garrett Langley to the stage to speak about those very issues. Disrupt has always had its fair share of hard-hitting conversations, and you should expect no less from this session. And Langley’s discussion of AI, surveillance, and the future of public safety is just one of the many compelling conversations happening at Disrupt this year, which will take place October 13-15 at San Francisco’s Moscone Center. You can dive into the programming we’ve announced so far here , or take advantage of lower, early ticket prices right here . How Flock Safety, and Langley, got to Disrupt 2026 Atlanta-based Flock Safety isn’t Langley’s first experience within the startup space. In past roles, he worked on the car subscription service Clutch and the platform Experience, where he oversaw several teams, including engineering and design prior to its sale to Cox Enterprises for $200 million in 2014. Flock started in 2017, with Langley partnering with co-founders Matt Feury and Paige Todd, going through Y Combinator before experiencing significant success selling its surveillance technology to businesses and law enforcement agencies. You may associate the company with license place recognition, though it has more general surveillance use cameras and has been developing drone first responders following its acquisition of Aerodome . The company’s most recent fundraise last year, a $275 million round, placed Flock at a $7.5 billion valuation , which was a sharp increase from the prior year’s $4.8 billion valuation. Altogether, the outfit has secured $950 million in total funding since inception. Flock’s business success has been paired with pushback from privacy advocates like the ACLU and members of the general public, with some people going so far as destroying Flock’s surveillance cameras as it continues to offer its cameras and databases to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in particular. Among the biggest apparent setbacks for Flock, Amazon’s Ring recently ended a partnership with the company, and the LAPD let its deal with Flock lapse this month . Langley will discuss the company’s approach to the increasingly interwoven nature of AI and the surveillance industry in a discussion that’s certain to prove illuminating to Flock’s supporters and its critics. To watch the discussion in person and join the other 10,000 founders, investors, tech enthusiasts, and innovators who will be flocking to San Francisco for TechCrunch Disrupt 2026 on October 13-15 for a wide array of workshops, speaker talks, after-parties, and networking, snag a ticket at the best price you’ll be seeing for the rest of the year right here . Topics Flock , Hardware , Security , Startups , TechCrunch Disrupt When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. TechCrunch Events View Bio October 13 – 15 San Francisco Get 50% off a second pass The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem. BOOK NOW Most Popular Anthropic is giving startups a free year of Claude Team and $1,000 in credits Russell Brandom At 19, founder raises $11M for Ghost, maker of a $3,499 computer for personal AI Dominic-Madori Davis Trump unveils his new Super Intelligence Force Anthony Ha Federal judge calls Flock ‘indiscriminate mass surveillance’ Anthony Ha Amazon responds to data center backlash, says it no longer uses NDAs Anthony Ha OpenAI safety employee resigns, claiming the company’s ‘culture is broken’ Anthony Ha Meta wants your next gadget to be Muse-infused Kirsten Korosec Loading the next article Error loading the next article ✕ X LinkedIn Facebook Instagram youTube Mastodon Threads Bluesky TechCrunch Staff Contact Us Advertise Site Map Terms of Service Privacy Policy RSS Terms of Use Code of Conduct OpenAI Hugging Face Flock Startup Battlefield Disrupt 2026 Tech Layoffs ChatGPT © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC. Some areas of this page may shift around if you resize the browser window. Be sure to check heading and document order. advertisement advertisement advertisement