Eugene, Springfield announce end of Flock cameras - Lookout Eugene-Springfield Close Become A Member Newsletters Event Calendar Classroom Advertise Donate Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Latest News Government & Politics Crime & Courts Food & Dining Community Voices / Opinion Education Arts & Culture Springfield Ducks Columnists Environment Health Business & Development University of Oregon Sports Special Coverage Open dropdown menu 2026 Elections 2026 Spring Garden Guide PeaceHealth ER controversy Special Report: Food insecurity in Lane County Making an impact for Lane County Enjoy the Area Open dropdown menu Event Calendar Add an Event Job Board Puzzle Center Download our App About Us Open dropdown menu Contact Us Meet the Team Join the Team Inside Lookout Shop Lookout Merch Member FAQ Partnerships Open dropdown menu Civic Partner Program Marketing Partners Lookout in the Classroom Open dropdown menu Journalism Scholarship Student Memberships Founding Members eugene-springfield@lookoutlocal.com Facebook Page Instagram X Bluesky LinkedIn Close Skip to content Lookout Eugene-Springfield Know More. Every Day. Become A Member Newsletters Event Calendar Classroom Advertise Donate Sign In Become a Member Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu Latest News Government & Politics Crime & Courts Food & Dining Community Voices / Opinion Education Arts & Culture Springfield Ducks Columnists Environment Health Business & Development University of Oregon Sports Special Coverage Open dropdown menu 2026 Elections 2026 Spring Garden Guide PeaceHealth ER controversy Special Report: Food insecurity in Lane County Making an impact for Lane County Enjoy the Area Open dropdown menu Event Calendar Add an Event Job Board Puzzle Center Download our App About Us Open dropdown menu Contact Us Meet the Team Join the Team Inside Lookout Shop Lookout Merch Member FAQ Partnerships Open dropdown menu Civic Partner Program Marketing Partners Lookout in the Classroom Open dropdown menu Journalism Scholarship Student Memberships Founding Members Open Search Search for: Search Trying to add a payment method? You can do this on the Payment methods tab. GO TO PAYMENT METHODS Several people gave public testimony in opposition to Flock Safety cameras during a Springfield City Council meeting, Sept. 2, 2025. Credit: Ashli Blow / Lookout Eugene-Springfield Posted in Justice Eugene, Springfield announce end of Flock cameras by Jaime Adame December 5, 2025 December 7, 2025 Share this story: Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor QuickTake: The Eugene Police Department said it “has identified vulnerabilities and limitations” in the Flock system that did not meet the standards of the department and the community. Springfield’s deputy chief said his department no longer had confidence in the system. While the departments were moving away from Flock, both said they still believe the underlying technology has value in fighting crime. Never miss a headline! Sign up to get the latest Lane County news delivered straight to your inbox every weekday for free. Morning Lookout Lookout PM News Alerts Sign up The Eugene Police Department said Friday, Dec. 5, it has “immediately” terminated its contract with Flock Safety, making the announcement in a news release sent at 7:20 p.m. Less than an hour later, Springfield police announced that they also will be removing their Flock cameras. The moves come after months of public outcry against the license plate-reading cameras . While both departments said they still believe the underlying automated license-plate recognition technology has value in fighting crime, both also cited concerns with their current vendor, Atlanta-based Flock Safety. “The department has identified vulnerabilities and limitations that raise concerns about the system’s ability to meet EPD’s operational needs, data security requirements, and community expectations,” the Eugene police statement said. “After further evaluation and internal discussion, the department has decided to discontinue the contract.” Springfield police, in its statement, referred to unspecified “vulnerabilities and limitations” identified by Eugene police. “Our responsibility is to safeguard both the integrity of investigative tools and the trust our community places in us,” Springfield Deputy Chief George Crolly said in a statement. “Given what we have learned, we do not have confidence that the current system provides the level of control and assurance we require.” The Springfield statement also said, “all Flock automatic license plate recognition (ALPR) cameras within the city will be covered in the coming days, pending their full removal.” Flock Safety has come under fire from U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden and others with concerns about data sharing with federal agencies, but the statement from Eugene police did not specify what “vulnerabilities and limitations” caused it to terminate the contract. “Eugene Police’s ALPR system experience has demonstrated the value of leveraging ALPR technology to aid investigations, apprehend felony suspects, and recover stolen vehicles more quickly,” the Eugene police news release said. “However, the department must ensure that any vendors meet the highest standards for safeguards surrounding privacy, data handling, data security, and system reliability.” A few other cities in Oregon and several in Washington have also recently turned away from Flock Safety, at least temporarily. “It was a joint call by me and [Eugene Police Chief Chris Skinner] and ultimately came down to trust,” Eugene City Manager Sarah Medary told Lookout Eugene-Springfield Sunday. “We need the community to trust we are making decisions and deploying tools and technology that protect with integrity. We’ve been working on policy updates and contract changes to try and ensure that and ultimately could not get there.” She said Skinner and the next city manager will navigate whether the city will look for a new vendor for the technology, noting there is a City Council work session scheduled Feb. 18 to discuss the cameras generally. In Springfield, police in September said they would not turn on the cameras until a wider community discussion about the technology could take place. Springfield Police Chief Jami Resch in a statement Friday said: “ALPR remains a valuable tool for modern law enforcement. We will be seeking ALPR options that meet our standards for data security, system transparency, and operational control. As we move forward, we intend to continue our work with community members to ensure those expectations are clear and are met.” Eugene signed a $342,000, two-year contract with Flock Safety for 57 cameras. The full amount has already been paid, in March and June. Installation of the cameras began in May. Police bypassed any public presentation about the technology and did not seek approval from the Eugene City Council. Springfield police previously said the cost of the 25 cameras in that city would be $77,000 per year. Both Eugene and Springfield police departments said they used state grants to cover the costs of the cameras. Skinner, the Eugene police chief, has been steadfast in advocating for the technology, which captures vehicle information and alerts officers when a vehicle linked to a crime passes by one of the cameras placed at street intersections, for example. Skinner stated that the license-plate recognition technology helped a department with limited manpower and also limited financial resources. But more than a dozen citizens at a July meeting of the citizens’ advisory Police Commission voiced strong opposition to the technology, with many expressing concerns about the cameras possibly being used to track vulnerable populations in federal immigration enforcement operations, for example. Skinner in September announced the city would attempt to renegotiate its contract with Flock Safety, but by that time the voices opposing the technology had grown louder as more citizens spoke at city meetings against use of the cameras. On Oct. 8, the Eugene City Council voted unanimously to pause use of the cameras. Even though two days later Skinner at a press conference called the Flock Safety cameras key in helping police identify seven suspects arrested in connection with an alleged burglary ring targeting Asian American households, the City Council had not added further discussion of the cameras to any meeting agendas. The Lane County Sheriff’s Office has a deal for 22 Flock Safety cameras, but none have yet been installed. Sheriff Carl Wilkerson in October said the cameras “would only be placed along state highways and major county roads.” The citizen group Eyes Off Eugene formed to oppose use of the technology in Eugene and Springfield. In a September statement to Lookout Eugene-Springfield, the group referred to also working with other local organizations, including the Lane County Immigrant Defense Network, Party for Socialism and Liberation, the Trans Alliance of Lane County and others. “This is a very wonderful and exciting victory for the people of Eugene and Springfield who have rejected Flock’s dragnet surveillance!” Kamryn Stringfield, an Eyes Off Eugene organizer, said in a text message Friday. “This happened only due to the organized campaign led by Eyes Off Eugene and other local groups to cancel Flock. Of course we now ask that the Lane County Sheriff take this as a signal to cancel his contract with Flock too,” Stringfield said. The Oregon State Police and Junction City Police Department in Lane County use in-car license-plate reader technology provided by a different company, Axon, which is a major provider of technology to police departments across the country. Axon has also begun selling a pole-mounted product with similar technological features to Flock Safety cameras installed in Eugene and Springfield. As recently as last week, Eugene police updated its policy guiding use of license-plate recognition, stating that only Lane County law enforcement agencies with valid data-sharing agreements would have direct access to data captured by Eugene cameras. Tagged: Flock Safety and automated license-plate reader technology , free , Today's Top Story LATEST NEWS UO projects $65 million budget gap, freezes hiring by Grace Chinowsky 16 minutes ago May 14, 2026 Bethel’s budget committee passes school district budget for 2026-27 by Lilly St. Angelo 34 minutes ago May 14, 2026 Third defendant pleads guilty in burglaries targeting Asian households by Jaime Adame 2 hours ago May 14, 2026 Top PeaceHealth executive is out following ER turmoil by Ashli Blow 2 hours ago May 14, 2026 Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Sign up for localized updates from the Central Eugene Area News. Crime. Events. Road closures. And more. Sent every weekday. Sign up for the Central Eugene neighborhood newsletter. Check the map for location details. Sign up Sign up for localized updates from the West Eugene Area News. Crime. Events. Road closures. And more. Sent every weekday. Sign up for the West Eugene neighborhood newsletter. Check the map for location details. Sign up Sign up for localized updates from the South Eugene Area News. Crime. Events. Road closures. And more. Sent every weekday. Sign up for the South Eugene neighborhood newsletter. Check the map for location details. Sign up Sign up for localized updates from the North Eugene Area News. Crime. Events. Road closures. And more. Sent every weekday. Sign up for the North Eugene neighborhood newsletter. Check the map for location details. Sign up Sign up for localized updates from the Northwest Eugene Area News. Crime. Events. Road closures. And more. Sent every weekday. Sign up for the Northwest Eugene neighborhood newsletter. Check the map for location details. Sign up Never miss a headline Sign up for Lookout Eugene-Springfield's free email newsletters to get the latest Lane County news delivered straight to your inbox. Morning Lookout Our most popular newsletter, sent every weekday morning. Get the top headlines, events and features. Lookout PM Your weekday evening recap of Lookout stories, plus state and national stories that have an impact here. News Alerts Be the first to receive breaking local news and get important story updates. Sign up MORE FROM LOOKOUT Community Voices An endorsement from the Democratic Party of Lane County doesn’t mean much | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 1 hour ago Community Voices To support the Eugene library is to support a legacy of learning | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 2 hours ago Community Voices Corporations always put profits over people. Watersheds Bill of Rights could finally change that. | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 3 hours ago Community Voices Oregon’s gas tax ballot measure would enrich special interests at our expense | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 4 hours ago Ducks As postseason begins, Oregon softball has seen this script before by Tyson Alger 11 hours ago Arts & Culture Things to do: Celebrate rhodies in Florence, a Paul McCartney story, go thrifting by Annie Aguiar 12 hours ago Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. eugene-springfield@lookoutlocal.com Facebook Page Instagram X Bluesky LinkedIn About Us Meet the Team We’re hiring! Inside Lookout Free Newsletters Become a Member Founding Members Download our App Contact Us Lookout Network Privacy Policy Terms of Service Sign up for free email newsletters to never miss a headline. Morning Lookout Lookout PM News Alerts Sign up © 2026 Lookout Eugene-Springfield. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By registering you agree to our privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Lookout Eugene-Springfield directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Morning Lookout Our most popular newsletter, sent every weekday morning. Get the top headlines, events and features. Lookout PM Your weekday evening recap of Lookout stories, plus state and national stories that have an impact here. News Alerts Be the first to receive breaking local news and get important story updates. Continue Gift this article Close Link Copy link We use cookies We use cookies to improve your experience. By using our site you agree to our terms of service. Opt-out here. Please note that our website may not work properly if all cookies are disabled. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent