Lane County Sheriff’s Office suspends Flock Safety contract - Lookout Eugene-Springfield Close Become A Member Newsletters Event Calendar Classroom Advertise Donate Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu Latest News Government & Politics Crime & Courts Food & Dining Community Voices / Opinion Education Arts & Culture Springfield Ducks Columnists Environment Health Business & Development University of Oregon Sports Special Coverage Open dropdown menu 2026 Elections 2026 Spring Garden Guide PeaceHealth ER controversy Special Report: Food insecurity in Lane County Making an impact for Lane County Enjoy the Area Open dropdown menu Event Calendar Add an Event Job Board Puzzle Center Download our App About Us Open dropdown menu Contact Us Meet the Team Join the Team Inside Lookout Shop Lookout Merch Member FAQ Partnerships Open dropdown menu Civic Partner Program Marketing Partners Lookout in the Classroom Open dropdown menu Journalism Scholarship Student Memberships Founding Members eugene-springfield@lookoutlocal.com Facebook Page Instagram X Bluesky LinkedIn Close Skip to content Lookout Eugene-Springfield Know More. Every Day. Become A Member Newsletters Event Calendar Classroom Advertise Donate Sign In Become a Member Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu Latest News Government & Politics Crime & Courts Food & Dining Community Voices / Opinion Education Arts & Culture Springfield Ducks Columnists Environment Health Business & Development University of Oregon Sports Special Coverage Open dropdown menu 2026 Elections 2026 Spring Garden Guide PeaceHealth ER controversy Special Report: Food insecurity in Lane County Making an impact for Lane County Enjoy the Area Open dropdown menu Event Calendar Add an Event Job Board Puzzle Center Download our App About Us Open dropdown menu Contact Us Meet the Team Join the Team Inside Lookout Shop Lookout Merch Member FAQ Partnerships Open dropdown menu Civic Partner Program Marketing Partners Lookout in the Classroom Open dropdown menu Journalism Scholarship Student Memberships Founding Members Open Search Search for: Search Trying to add a payment method? You can do this on the Payment methods tab. GO TO PAYMENT METHODS An example of automated license-plate recognition technology from Flock Safety. Credit: Flock Safety Posted in Latest News Lane County Sheriff’s Office suspends Flock Safety contract by Jaime Adame December 10, 2025 December 10, 2025 Share this story: Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on Nextdoor (Opens in new window) Nextdoor QuickTake: The move comes after Friday announcements from Springfield and Eugene police that they were ending their relationships with the Atlanta-based company that provides license-plate reader camera systems. Never miss a headline! Sign up to get the latest Lane County news delivered straight to your inbox every weekday for free. Morning Lookout Lookout PM News Alerts Sign up The Lane County Sheriff’s Office announced Wednesday, Dec. 10, it is suspending its contract with Atlanta-based Flock Safety to install 22 license-plate recognition cameras. The move comes five days after Friday announcements from the Eugene and Springfield police departments that they were also cutting ties with Flock Safety, ending — for now, at least — use of a technology that elicited strong public opposition in recent months from citizens concerned about how the data might be used. “We are still examining this type of technology and others in an effort to improve community and deputy safety,” Sheriff Carl Wilkerson said in a statement. Unlike the Eugene and Springfield police departments, the sheriff’s office had yet not installed the technology, known as automated license-plate recognition, or ALPR. The Wednesday announcement noted the recent cancellations in Eugene and Springfield: “For an ALPR system to be most effective in preventing crime and holding offenders accountable, coordination between local agencies is paramount,” the news release said. “Without other local networks to integrate with, LCSO is looking for ways to best utilize the resources that we have available to keep our residents safe.” Invoice records provided to Lookout Eugene-Springfield showed Flock Safety charging the sheriff’s office $66,000 in year one of a two-year contract. Sgt. Tim Wallace, a sheriff’s office spokesperson, said Wednesday costs were slightly more for the second year of the contract, but he did not immediately have a full total. The police chiefs in Eugene and Springfield have continued to praise the underlying technology, and Wilkerson also spoke about its use in fighting crime. “ALPRs have proven their benefit to our residents with the capture of multiple murderers over the past year,” Wilkerson said. While Wilkerson did not specify any criminal cases, Springfield police have said license-plate readers helped track a suspect in a deadly arson in July. Justin Carr was ultimately arrested in Washington state. In Eugene, police in July said license-plate readers led to the arrest of a man wanted in connection with a murder in Wisconsin. Each pole-mounted camera placed at intersections or along roadways captures vehicle information. Alerts are sent to officers when a vehicle linked to a crime, for example, passes by one of the cameras. Police have also said the technology helps when searching for missing persons. In October, Wilkerson said the cameras “would only be placed along state highways and major county roads.” Also in October, the sheriff’s office named the intersection of Highway 126 and Territorial Road in Veneta as a possible camera location, according to minutes from the Veneta City Council. In Lane County, the Florence Police Department continues to use pole-mounted Flock Safety cameras, Chief John Pitcher said Wednesday. Tagged: Premium LATEST NEWS I spent years trodding trails on Earth. My son decided to explore the heavens. by William L. Sullivan 4 hours ago As postseason begins, Oregon softball has seen this script before by Tyson Alger 4 hours ago Things to do: Celebrate rhodies in Florence, a Paul McCartney story, go thrifting by Annie Aguiar 4 hours ago If you build it, trash will come. Or will it? The troubled history of CleanLane by Ben Botkin 4 hours ago Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. Never miss a headline Sign up for Lookout Eugene-Springfield's free email newsletters to get the latest Lane County news delivered straight to your inbox. Morning Lookout Our most popular newsletter, sent every weekday morning. Get the top headlines, events and features. Lookout PM Your weekday evening recap of Lookout stories, plus state and national stories that have an impact here. News Alerts Be the first to receive breaking local news and get important story updates. Sign up MORE FROM LOOKOUT Arts & Culture Cold. Bored. Sore butt. Is this worth it? Waiting for hours to be in the front row by Annie Aguiar 14 hours ago May 13, 2026 Business & Development Closure of sportswear plant in Coburg expected to affect 83 workers by Jaime Adame 16 hours ago May 13, 2026 Government & Politics Race for EWEB at-large seat sees more than $20K in campaign spending by Lucas Hellberg 17 hours ago May 13, 2026 Community Voices We all value our environment, but the Watersheds Bill of Rights could slow needed housing development | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 18 hours ago Community Voices Kori Rodley is the right candidate at the right time for Oregon House District 7 | Letter to the editor by Letters to the Editor 18 hours ago Government & Politics Eugene library takes spotlight at City Club meeting by Mike McInally 19 hours ago Load more posts Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again. eugene-springfield@lookoutlocal.com Facebook Page Instagram X Bluesky LinkedIn About Us Meet the Team We’re hiring! Inside Lookout Free Newsletters Become a Member Founding Members Download our App Contact Us Lookout Network Privacy Policy Terms of Service Sign up for free email newsletters to never miss a headline. Morning Lookout Lookout PM News Alerts Sign up © 2026 Lookout Eugene-Springfield. All Rights Reserved Powered by Newspack Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) By registering you agree to our privacy policy. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Lookout Eugene-Springfield directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Morning Lookout Our most popular newsletter, sent every weekday morning. Get the top headlines, events and features. Lookout PM Your weekday evening recap of Lookout stories, plus state and national stories that have an impact here. News Alerts Be the first to receive breaking local news and get important story updates. Continue Already have an account? Sign In Keep reading! Create a free account to unlock 3 more stories this month Gain unlimited access to all of Lookout on web and app . Become a Member Create your account and sign in to read THREE more free articles. Create an account Gift this article Close Link Copy link We use cookies We use cookies to improve your experience. By using our site you agree to our terms of service. Opt-out here. Please note that our website may not work properly if all cookies are disabled. Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Marketing Marketing The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept Deny View preferences Save preferences View preferences {title} {title} {title} Manage consent Complete your transaction Close