source: packet.pdf
sha256: e4c5e70caa113224528344ed79afab848c196d466e023a5dbd00823e27c75b89
pages: 106
ocr_pages: 3
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
June 15, 2020
5:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 15, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 816 4676 8887
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Downtown Parking and Enforcement - Update
Receive an update on Downtown parking revenues, expenditures, and parking enforcement activities, and
provide direction to staff.
2.
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council Proposition on the
Ballot
Consider adopting a Resolution to place a City Council proposition on the November 3, 2020 election that would
enact an ordinance amending the general plan to extend for ten years the expiration date for voter-enacted
policies limiting building heights and residential densities but to authorize the City Council to approve building
heights and densities that exceed these limits in designated planning areas near the Downtown, Hillsdale, and
Hayward Park Caltrain stations; to modify policies establishing an inclusionary housing requirement for rental
housing projects to allow alternative means for satisfying the requirement; and to provide that residential and
mixed use projects that meet the City’s inclusionary housing requirements may be developed at the maximum
height and building intensity limits without providing public benefits beyond code requirements.
3.
General Plan Update – Next Steps
Consider the next steps and provide feedback for the General Plan Update process.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 of 106

--- page 2 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the
posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream (continued on next page)
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special
accommodations to participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements
to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 106

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3121
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 15, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Parking and Enforcement – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on Downtown parking revenues, expenditures, and parking enforcement activities, and provide 
direction to staff.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Downtown paid parking environment encompasses more than 3,000 parking spaces including on-
street parking and off-street parking lots and garages. Users pay for parking by the hour or regular users (e.g., commuters) 
may opt to purchase a monthly parking permit valid in off-street garages or lots. Payment is required to park at all 
locations Monday through Saturday between 8:00 am to 6:00 pm, and parking enforcement officers ensure parking 
regulations are followed. The City’s parking contractor, SP Plus, performs meter maintenance and collections for all 
equipment. 
After the County Shelter in Place (SIP) order was issued and beginning on April 7, 2020, the City suspended parking 
enforcement for several service areas, including Downtown paid parking. Prior to the suspension of parking enforcement, 
parking activity in the Downtown core had already started to decrease, as more users stayed home prior to the official SIP 
order. Parking enforcement continues for red zone violations and safety issues during the SIP order, although parking 
enforcement staffing has been reduced from eight personnel to five. 
Downtown Parking and Security Fund – Revenues and Expenditures
Revenue for the Downtown Parking and Security Fund (Fund 28) is derived from a number of sources, including parking 
meters, pay stations, and monthly parking permits. These revenue sources are summarized in the following table.
Revenues
 
Parking Agreements and Leases
1%
Parking Permits
20%
Parking Meter Revenues
65%
Ground Lease for Cinema
9%
Tenant Revenue
4%
Less than 1% of revenue for the current fiscal year is attributed to federal grants, electric vehicle (EV) charging fees, and 
interest on investments.
Parking meter and monthly permit revenues account for 85% of the total. Total revenue for the last fiscal year (2018-19) 
was $4.4 million. In contrast, the total estimated revenue for Fund 28 in the current 2019-20 fiscal year is anticipated to be 
3 of 106

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
roughly $3.1 million, which reflects the reduced parking activity in the Downtown, along with the suspended parking 
enforcement.  On average, during normal operations, monthly revenue from Downtown parking meters and permits is 
$310,000. Total expenditures for fiscal year 2019-20 are anticipated to be approximately $4 million.
Fund 28 expenditures for the current fiscal year 2019-20 apply to various departments and programs, as summarized in 
the table below.
Expenditures
Included Costs
 FTE
%
Economic 
Development
Downtown Coordinator
0.2
.5%
Current Planning
Planning Staff1
0.3
.5%
Parking/Transportation Planning Staff
2.1
Parking
Operations
Parking Meter and Pay Station support costs
25%
Downtown Facilities Maintenance Staffing
0.3
Downtown 
Facilities 
Maintenance
Downtown Cleaning Contract and other maintenance 
activities
15%
Downtown 
Security
Police Officers
2
14%
Community Service Officer/Vehicle Abatement Officers
3
Parking 
Enforcement
Contractual Services for parking enforcement
45%
Total
7.9
100%
1 Planning staff removed from Fund 28 in FY 20-21 budget
Current Revenue during COVID-19
While parking enforcement has been suspended, the parking equipment in the Downtown was not officially shut down, 
which would require covering parking meters and disabling pay stations from accepting payment. As such, some parking 
revenue was collected during this time, albeit much less than normal. The City’s parking contractor also remained active in 
a reduced capacity to perform collections and maintenance. 
As a result of the reduced activity in the Downtown and suspension of parking enforcement, monthly revenue from 
parking meters and parking permits has dropped more than 85% based on normal operations. In April 2020, parking meter 
and permit revenue totaled roughly $31,000 compared to $235,000 from April 2019.
Given some businesses continue to operate and their employees are utilizing parking, the monthly parking permit program 
has continued.  However, to avoid potential undue hardship, staff temporarily allowed permit holders to request a refund 
of the monthly parking fee without losing their permit and being placed on the waitlist.  Staff has processed approximately 
250 monthly permit refunds (of roughly 1,400 total permits issued during March and April) since the SIP order was initially 
implemented.  As part of this item, staff is seeking guidance from the City Council on managing future refund requests for 
monthly parking permits.
Projected Fund Balance
With the projected parking revenue and expenditures for the current year, Fund 28 is anticipated to close the current fiscal 
year with a $2 million fund balance. The currently proposed 2020-21 budget assumes enhanced parking enforcement with 
a total of 10 parking enforcement officers, with the corresponding assumed additional parking citation revenue going into 
the General Fund.  With these assumptions, the 2020-21 budget for Fund 28 includes (1) an assumed transfer of $1.1 
million from the General Fund to account for the additional citation revenue to cover the additional enforcement contract 
costs, (2) a total fund operating cost of $4.6 million, and (3) a planned transfer of $1.6 million for the planned Central Park 
garage Capital Improvement Project (CIP). 
4 of 106

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Under current conditions, i.e., no Downtown parking enforcement or parking revenue, the planned $1.1 million transfer 
from the General Fund would not automatically occur as there will be no additional citation revenue realized.  Given these 
conditions, the ability to fund operational expenses has been evaluated to assist in determining options moving forward.

Under the current conditions with no changes, Fund 28 will only be able to fund its operations for two months and 
make the $1.6 million capital commitment and would run out of money during the first quarter of next fiscal year. 

Under current conditions plus a transfer of $1.1 million from the General Fund being made regardless of 
enforcement revenue, Fund 28 will be able to fund the $1.6 million capital commitment and 6 months of 
operations. A total transfer of approximately $2.4 million would be necessary to fund operations and capital 
commitment for fiscal year 2020-21.

Under current conditions and with elimination of the $1.6 million Central Park garage CIP commitment, Fund 28 
will be able to fund its operations for 8 months and would not run out of money until the third quarter of next 
fiscal year. A transfer of approximately $800,000 would be necessary to fund operations for the remainder of next 
fiscal year.
In order to fully fund the operations and capital commitment for the fiscal year, staff estimates that Downtown parking 
enforcement must begin by August 1, 2020. Staff’s estimate assumes eight parking enforcement officers (the staffing level 
prior to the SIP order) with no transfer of funds from the General Fund while maintaining the fund transfer of $1.6 million 
for the Central Park parking garage project.
The Central Park parking garage project will waterproof the upper deck and structurally stabilize the garage to extend its 
useful life by an estimated ten years prior to future reconstruction.  Delaying the garage project is considered possible, but 
there is risk of further deterioration or catastrophic event occuring, making the facility unusable and forcing its closure 
until the City could fund reconstruction.
Assuming the $1.1 million transfer from the General Fund is not made, the estimated number of months of the 2020-21 
fiscal year operating expenses Fund 28 could support are tabulated below. These estimates assume the ‘starting month’ is 
the first complete month of fully enforced paid parking.
Starting Month
Number of Months 
Funded (Operating 
Budget)
August
12
September
11
October
7
November
5
December
4
Options for City Council Consideration
In evaluating options to address the budgetary concerns for Fund 28, staff has evaluated three options for City Council 
consideration moving forward. 
1.
Continue suspension of Downtown parking enforcement and paid parking. This will extend the cessation of parking 
enforcement in the Downtown core. If such direction is given, staff will take measures to suspend the paid parking 
program in full until such time as City Council directs staff to resume operations. 
2.
Remove the CIP fund transfer.  This would eliminate the planned $1.6 million transfer from Fund 28 for the Central 
Park parking garage project in fiscal year 2020-21. Alternate funding sources have not been identified for this 
project. 
3.
Activate Downtown parking enforcement and paid parking. This would begin parking enforcement activity in the 
Downtown paid parking area per posted restrictions. Staff recommends a 30-day warning and communication 
timeframe at the outset, and that the start of this effort begin immediately given recent Shelter in Place order 
5 of 106

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
modifications which allow dining at restaurants. Paid parking would be assessed at the rates contained in the City 
Council adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
 
Staff recommends beginning parking enforcement in the Downtown core following the allowance of dining in at 
restaurants, to begin immediately with a 30-day notification period. This serves to alleviate the burden of payment for 
parking during such time as most users are continuing to remain at home, while providing for payment when the City’s 
parking assets are beginning to be utilized by casual users once again. If staff is directed to move forward with this option, 
the 30-day notification period would begin within the next week, with parking enforcement activities beginning mid-July. 
Staff seeks direction from City Council regarding the options for Downtown parking enforcement and paid parking.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact resulting from this report. The proposed options for Downtown parking and parking 
enforcement may result in a change in revenue or expenditures for Fund 28 based on City Council direction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7288
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
6 of 106

--- page 7 ---
ROIECT
Groundbreaking
"@D ino nne — wens

EW 7 7 a

PUBLIC
WORKS

City of San Mateo

Downtown Parking and Enforcement - Update

June 15, 2020

Sue-Ellen Atkinson

7 of 106



--- page 8 ---
Overview
• Fund 28 – Revenues and Expenditures
• Current Revenue during COVID-19
• Projected Fund Balance – FY2020-21
• Options for Consideration
8 of 106

--- page 9 ---
Fund 28 - Revenue
$40,529 
Parking Agreements 
and Leases
$614,382 
Parking Permits
$1,945,644 
Parking Meter 
Revenue
$261,810 
Ground Lease for 
Cinema
$127,979 
Tenant Revenue
9 of 106

--- page 10 ---
Fund 28 - Expenditures
Expenditures
Included Costs
FTE
%
Economic Development
Downtown Coordinator
0.2
.5%
Current Planning
Planning Staff1
0.3
.5%
Parking
Operations
Parking/Transportation Planning Staff
2.1
25%
Parking Meter and Pay Station support costs
Downtown Facilities Maintenance
Downtown Facilities Maintenance Staffing
0.3
15%
Downtown Cleaning Contract and other maintenance 
activities
Downtown Security
Police Officers
2
14%
Parking Enforcement
Community Service Officer/Vehicle Abatement Officers
3
45%
Contractual Services for parking enforcement
Total
7.9
100%
10 of 106

--- page 11 ---
Fund 28 – Expenditures
FTE
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
Downtown Coordinator
Planning Staff
Parking/Transportation Planning Staff
Downtown Facilities Maintenance Staffing
Police Officers
Community Service Officer/Vehicle Abatement Officers
11 of 106

--- page 12 ---
Change in Downtown Parking Revenue
• Paid parking not fully disabled
• Meter collection and maintenance 
continued at reduced frequency
• Monthly permit program 
continued
• 250 permit refunds issued
$0
$50,000
$100,000
$150,000
$200,000
$250,000
April 2019
April 2020
12 of 106

--- page 13 ---
2020-21 Projected Fund 
Balance
Proposed FY 2020-21 Budget 
Assumptions
• General Fund Transfer: $1.1 million 
transfer from General Fund to Fund 
28
➢Assumed full implementation 
of contract parking 
enforcement
• Operating Budget: Total $4.6 
million operating budget
• CIP Transfer: $1.6 million transfer 
from Fund 28 for Central Park 
Garage CIP
13 of 106

--- page 14 ---
2020-21 Projected Fund Balance
•2 months of operating expenses plus CIP commitment funded
No Change (Continue Current Suspension of Parking Enforcement)
•6 months of operating expenses plus CIP commitment funded
•Total transfer of $2.4 million necessary to fully fund
General Fund Transfer of $1.1 million
•8 months of operating expenses funded
•Additional $800,000 needed to fully fund FY2020-21 operating expenses
Eliminate CIP Transfer for Central Park Garage
14 of 106

--- page 15 ---
Enforcement and Paid 
Parking Options
• Full funding of operations and 
CIP commitment is feasible if 
Downtown parking 
enforcement and paid parking 
begins no later than August 1
• Assumes 30 day warning and 
communication period prior to 
start
• Estimated funding timeframes 
based on start of enforcement 
Starting 
Month
Number of Months Funded 
(Operating Budget)
August
12
September
11
October
7
November
5
December
4
15 of 106

--- page 16 ---
Options for Consideration
Continue suspension of parking 
enforcement and paid parking
Remove CIP fund transfer for Central 
Park Garage
Begin Downtown parking 
enforcement and paid parking
16 of 106

--- page 17 ---
Discussion 
Items
• Refunds for monthly parking permits
• Currently issuing refunds
• Recommendation: Issue refunds by request for 
June; begin standard issuance with July permits
• Direction for next steps
• Council recommendation on parking enforcement 
and paid parking operations 
17 of 106

--- page 18 ---
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Stewards of your infrastructure 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7300
Thank you for your time
You can reach me at: 
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
18 of 106

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3159
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
June 15, 2020 
SUBJECT:
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council Proposition on the Ballot
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider adopting a Resolution to place a City Council proposition on the November 3, 2020 election that would enact an 
ordinance amending the general plan to extend for ten years the expiration date for voter-enacted policies limiting 
building heights and residential densities but to authorize the City Council to approve building heights and densities that 
exceed these limits in designated planning areas near the Downtown, Hillsdale, and Hayward Park Caltrain stations; to 
modify policies establishing an inclusionary housing requirement for rental housing projects to allow alternative means for 
satisfying the requirement; and to provide that residential and mixed use projects that meet the City’s inclusionary 
housing requirements may be developed at the maximum height and building intensity limits without providing public 
benefits beyond code requirements.
BACKGROUND:
In February, a group of residents notified the city that they intended to gather signatures on a petition for a ballot measure 
that would serve as an alternative to the SMRG measure. The group’s efforts were frustrated just as they began due to the 
Shelter in Place orders issued by the county health officer. On June 1, the proponents of this alternative measure 
requested that the City Council place the measure on the ballot as a council sponsored proposition. Under state law, the 
City Council has the authority to place a measure on the ballot. On June 1, the City Council directed staff to place this item 
on the June 15 study session agenda to determine whether the Council desires to place this alternative measure on the 
November 3, 2020. A resolution taking this action is included with this report. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The County of San Mateo Election Services have provided an estimate for the election costs for City ballot measures. The 
estimate is based on cost per registered voter (prv) and is provided in a range of $2.71 prv to $3.25 prv. The City’s current 
voter registration is 56,192. That puts the range from $166,800 to $200,000 when printing costs are assumed in addition to 
the prv. These funds will be expended in the next fiscal year and will be included in the budget for 2020-21.
IMPLICATIONS TO GENERAL PLAN UPDATE:
The boundaries of the proposed ballot measure are based in part on Study Areas 3 (Hayward Park and Hillsdale Station), 4 
(downtown San Mateo), and 5 (north of downtown along San Mateo Drive) of the GPU. However, the ballot measure 
boundaries do not match the Study Areas exactly; they are smaller in size, and although they are almost entirely contained 
within these three Study Areas, some portions of the Study Areas would still be subject to existing height and density 
requirements. 
If passed, the proposed ballot measure would have a significant impact on the GPU’s Draft Land Use Alternatives as they 
are currently conceived. All three of the proposed alternatives have parcels designated as medium (4-7 stories) or high (8+ 
19 of 106

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
stories) density outside of the proposed ballot measure’s boundaries. Although medium-density construction of 4-5 stories 
would still be permissible in these areas, high-density land uses would need to be confined to the measure’s designated 
borders. 
To be clear, an extension of Measure P would have more significant implications for the GPU.  The information below lays 
out a series of pros and cons specific to this alternative measure:
Pros

The proposed ballot measure represents something of a compromise between Alternatives 1 and 3 of the Draft 
Land Use Alternatives, focusing major growth in specified areas and maintaining height and density limitations in 
others.

Although the proposed ballot measure does not align with the GPU Draft Land Use Alternatives in their entirety, it 
does reflect the outcomes of some of the GPU efforts. For example, the proposed ballot measure reflects 
community support for mixed-use development near transit.  Almost all of the high-density mixed-use 
designations in the GPU alternatives fall within the proposed boundaries.

Like the GPU Study Areas, the boundaries in the proposed ballot measure exclude those properties with a single-
family zoning designation. This is in line with previous Council direction.
Cons

The current Study Areas and Draft Land Use Alternatives represent the range of viewpoints collected through 
thousands of comments; this ballot measure does not reflect viewpoints that expressed interest in considering 
more intensity outside of transit corridors.

The ballot measure boundaries exclude at least 88% of the areas designated for high-density office in the three 
proposed alternatives. The alternatives propose allowing office buildings of 8+ stories in the Bridgepoint area, 
which would not be permissible under the ballot measure. Should the proposed ballot measure pass, the City 
would face potentially slower future job growth or need to dedicate more land area to accommodate office uses 
that are less dense, potentially at the expense of current mixed-use or residential designations.

Between 33% and 43% of the land area designated for high-density residential use falls outside of the ballot 
measure boundaries, primarily along El Camino Real. For the City to meet its expected RHNA obligations, a 
significant amount of the low-density (1-3 stories) residential land area may need to be increased to medium 
density to allow for more housing construction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
CEQA analysis is required to be prepared in connection with “projects” undertaken by the city. Public Resources Code 
Section 21065 defines the term “project” as “an activity which may cause either a direct physical change in the 
environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment.” The proposed ballot measure, if 
passed by the voters, would not result in either a direct or indirect physical change in the environment. The proposed 
measure would amend the general plan to extend existing height and density limits already contained in the general plan 
for most of the community. The measure would authorize the City Council to raise heights and densities in certain 
designated areas in the community, but only as part of a comprehensive general plan update process for which an 
environmental analysis required by CEQA has been prepared. Passage of the measure would not enact new land use 
policies. Instead, it would merely authorize the City Council to enact new land use policies after appropriate and 
meaningful environmental analysis has been performed.
In addition, even if the proposed measure was considered to be a “project” under CEQA, it would be exempt from 
environmental review because “it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility” that the measure “may have a 
significant effect on the environment.”  Again, the proposed measure merely maintains existing land use policies. It does 
not propose or permit any development of land or authorize any use of land not authorized at the present time.
20 of 106

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution Calling the Election on the City Council Proposition
Att 2 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney 
smason@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7022
21 of 106

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
CALLING A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2020 FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
SUBMITTING A PROPOSED ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CITY OF SAN MATEO GENERAL PLAN TO EXTEND FOR 
TEN YEARS THE EXPIRATION DATE OF VOTER ENACTED POLICIES LIMITING BUILDING HEIGHTS, RESIDENTIAL 
DENSITIES AND NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING INTENSITIES BUT TO AUTHORIZE THE CITY COUNCIL TO APPROVE 
CHANGES TO THESE LIMITS THAT EXCEED THE PREVIOUS LIMITS IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED AREAS, AND TO 
MAKE OTHER AMENDMENTS TO THE PLAN RELATING TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING POLICIES
WHEREAS, pursuant to authority provided by state law a petition to propose an ordinance to extend 
general plan policies enacted by Measure P in 2004 was qualified and on May 18, 2020, the City Council took 
action to call an election on the proposed measure and placed it on the November 3, 2020 ballot; and
WHEREAS, in February 2020, a group of San Mateo residents attempted to gather signatures to qualify a 
measure to provide an alternative to the measure previously qualified for the ballot;
WHEREAS, the signature gathering efforts of this group were interrupted by the Shelter in Place orders 
issued by the San Mateo County Health Officer in response to the novel coronavirus pandemic, and such orders 
remain in place and will prevent the proponents of the alternative measure from gathering sufficient signatures 
to qualify their measure for the November 3, 2020 ballot; and
WHEREAS, the proponents of the alternative measure have requested that the San Mateo City Council 
exercise its legal authority to submit their measure to the voters as a city council proposition; and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to this authority the San Mateo City Council has decided to place a proposition 
to enact the alternative measure on the November 3, 2020 ballot.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, 
DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.
That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to 
charter cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of San Mateo, California, on Tuesday, November 
3, 2020, a General Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting the following proposed ordinance:  
YES
Shall the proposed ordinance to amend the City of San 
Mateo General Plan to extend for ten years the 
expiration date for voter-enacted policies limiting 
building heights and intensities, but to authorize the 
City Council to approve increases in heights and 
intensities in designated areas that are close to major 
transit and to make other specified amendments to 
affordable housing policies in the plan, be adopted? 
NO
22 of 106

--- page 23 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 2 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
SECTION 2.
That the text of the measure submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A.
SECTION 3.
That the vote requirement for the measure to pass is a majority (50%+1) of the votes 
cast.
SECTION 4.
That the full text of the measure be printed in the voter information pamphlet.
SECTION 5.
The City Clerk is directed to forward the proposed measure to the City Attorney for 
preparation of an impartial analysis in accordance with Section 9280 of the Elections Code.  
SECTION 6.
Arguments for and against the proposition may be submitted to the qualified voters of 
the City in accordance with sections 9282 through 9287 of the California Elections Code. The deadline date for 
submitting ballot arguments for or against the proposition shall be Friday, August 14, 2020. Proposed arguments 
shall not exceed 300 words and shall be submitted to the Office of the City Clerk. The deadline for submitting 
rebuttal arguments shall be Monday, August 24, 2020. Proposed rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words 
and shall be submitted to the office of the City Clerk. The provisions of Section 9285(a) of the California Elections 
Code shall apply to the submittal of rebuttal arguments.
SECTION 7. The City Clerk and other City officers are directed to do all things necessary to meet the 
requirements of law for the November 3, 2020, municipal election.
SECTION 8.  That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required by law.
SECTION 9.  The polls for said election shall be opened at seven o’clock a.m. of the day of said election 
and shall remain open continuously from said time until eight o’clock p.m. of the same day, except as provided 
in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California.
SECTION 10.  The municipal election hereby called for November 3, 2020, shall be, and is hereby, 
ordered consolidated with the county election to be held within the City on said date, and within the territory 
affected by the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting 
precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, 
results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall be regulated and 
done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the countywide election and as specified herein.
SECTION 11.  The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo is hereby requested to permit the 
County Elections Official to render specified services to the city relating to the conduct of the election; and is 
hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said municipal election; and said election shall be held in all respects 
as if there were only one election and only one form of ballot.  The County shall certify the results of the canvass 
of the returns of said election to the City Council of this City which shall thereafter declare the results thereof. 
SECTION 12.
That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and 
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.
23 of 106

--- page 24 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 3 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
SECTION 13.  That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is 
authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner 
as required by law. 
SECTION 14.  The City Council authorizes the City Clerk to administer said election and all reasonable and 
actual election expenses shall be paid by the City upon presentation of a properly submitted bill and the City 
Clerk is authorized to execute a service agreement for the provision of election services with the County with 
terms approved by the city attorney and provided the costs of such services have been appropriated by the City 
Council.
SECTION 15.  That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this resolution and enter it 
into the book of original resolutions. 
SECTION 16. 
The City Council has determined that the proposed measure is not a “project” under 
CEQA.  The CEQA statute and regulations define “project” as “an action, which has a potential for resulting in 
either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the 
environment.”  The proposed measure would merely maintain existing land use policies contained in the general 
plan and, for certain areas, authorize the City Council to make changes in land use policy.  Any effort by the 
council to change these policies in the future will require CEQA review at that time. Attempting to review at this 
time what the council or voters might do in the future is purely speculative.  
In addition, even if the proposed measure was considered to be a “project” under CEQA, it would be exempt 
from environmental review because “it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility” that the measure 
“may have a significant effect on the environment.”  Again, the proposed measure merely maintains existing 
land use policies. It does not propose or permit any development of land or authorize any use of land not 
authorized at the present time.
SECTION 17. 
Effective date. This Resolution shall take effect upon adoption.
24 of 106

--- page 25 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 4 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
EXHIBIT A
The People of the City of San Mateo do hereby ordain as follows:
Section 1
Title
This initiative shall be known as the City of San Mateo Neighborhood Protection / Housing Opportunity and 
Affordability Act.
 
Section 2
Findings
A.
The City of San Mateo is currently in the process of preparing its General Plan 2040, which it currently 
anticipates adopting in March of 2023.   
B.
San Mateo, the Bay Area, and the State have evolved dramatically since Measure H was adopted 30 
years ago. Since then, some of the country’s large tech companies, such as SolarCity and GoPro, have 
established headquarter offices in San Mateo, hiring tens of thousands of employees and generating 
billions of dollars in revenue. Ridership at the Hillsdale Caltrain station has more than doubled between 
2009 and 2019, and Caltrain plans to triple its ridership system-wide by 2040. Growth and travel 
patterns throughout the Bay Area have changed dramatically as technology and financial industries 
continue to attract employees. 
C.
In the last eight years, the Bay Area has added 676,000 new jobs, but only built 176,000 new housing 
units, a deficit of 275,000 homes for new workers. The Legislature has declared a statewide housing 
crisis and amended the Housing Element Law to require local governments to accommodate a 
significantly increased demand for housing at all affordability levels.
D. This Initiative seeks to balance preservation of the low-density, suburban residential character of the 
City on one hand, with the need to accommodate a greater number of residential units in light of the 
unprecedented statewide housing crisis, on the other. It achieves this balance by allowing the City to 
plan for more dense transit-oriented residential and mixed-use development that represents 21st-
century planning principles, creates opportunities for more affordable housing near transit, promotes 
sustainable development by reducing commuter driving and transportation costs, and helps to reduce 
San Mateo’s carbon footprint. 
E.
This Initiative does not create new height and density limits, but instead provides the City Council with 
flexibility to respond to changes in the economy, demographics, population, best practices, State law, 
affordable housing needs, public transit use, and more, by creating two new planning areas through a 
multi-year planning process as part of the City’s 2040 General Plan, which the City anticipates 
completing in 2023. The new planning areas will help the City generate millions of dollars in resources 
for City services such as police, fire, roads and park maintenance, while avoiding increased taxes for 
homeowners. New development eligible for increased height and density in the two defined areas will 
not threaten the viability of the valued suburban character of the City’s residential neighborhoods, 
which the voters sought to protect with Measures H and P.
F.
This Initiative furthers the intent of the voters to ensure the production of affordable housing. Although 
Measure H established the City’s first affordable housing program, it in many ways has made the 
provision of affordable housing for veterans, the disabled, battered women, and others with special 
needs economically infeasible, because housing that best serves these populations requires heights and 
densities that exceed current limits. Further, the existing affordable housing requirements prohibit 
creative proposals that could increase the City’s supply of affordable units, such as off-site construction 
and in-lieu fees. 
25 of 106

--- page 26 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 5 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
G. In 2017, the State Legislature adopted AB 1505 to clarify that if cities require residential projects to 
provide for inclusionary housing, alternative means of compliance such as in-lieu fees, land dedication, 
off-site construction, or acquisition and rehabilitation of existing units must also be allowed. Measure P 
does not provide the flexibility required by AB 1505, and this Initiative resolves the inconsistency.    
H. The new planning areas include portions of the General Plan 2040 study areas. 
Section 3
Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this Initiative is to: 
A.
Preserve the livability and suburban character of the City’s established single-family neighborhoods 
while responding to the statewide housing crisis by authorizing the City Council to establish new height 
and density limits in a new planning area near the Downtown Caltrain Station and a new planning area 
near the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations in connection with the General Plan 2040, only 
after a thorough public process and environmental review. 
B.
Increase opportunities for the production of affordable housing, workforce housing, and special needs 
housing by allowing projects to satisfy the City’s inclusionary housing requirement in a greater variety of 
alternative ways, consistent with California Assembly Bill (“AB”) 1505.
The Initiative accomplishes these goals by:
A.
Retaining the existing height and density limits throughout the City of San Mateo while granting the City 
Council authority to establish new height and density limits in a new planning area near the Downtown 
Caltrain Station and a new planning area near the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations, as 
illustrated in the attached map, in which height and density in excess of current limits may be 
established in connection with the General Plan 2040 to accommodate the increased housing demand 
and respond to the statewide housing crisis.  
B.
Amending the City’s Housing Element to allow projects subject to the affordable housing requirement 
flexibility to comply through alternative means, in compliance with AB 1505.
C.
Clarifying existing ambiguity regarding the requirement that projects include public benefits or 
amenities beyond code requirements to achieve the maximum density currently allowed.  
Section 4
Preservation of Existing Height and Density Limits in Neighborhoods; City Council Authority 
to Establish New Height and Density Limits in Two New Transit-Oriented Planning Areas
This Initiative hereby amends the General Plan of the City of San Mateo (“General Plan”). Text to be 
inserted in the General Plan is indicated in underline type, and text to be deleted is indicated in 
strikethrough type. Non-underlined text currently appears in the relevant document and is not changed 
or readopted by this Initiative. 
A. City of San Mateo General Plan Amendments 
1.
Land Use Policy LU 1.21 is hereby added to the General Plan Land Use Element as follows:
“LU 1.21: Voter Approval: Voter approval shall be required to amend the General Plan prior to 
January 1, 2031 to increase the height and density standards established by Measure P, except for 
a new planning area near the Downtown Caltrain Station and a new planning area near the 
Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations. The boundaries of those new planning areas shall be 
consistent with the map attached to Appendix C of the General Plan as Figure 1. The City of San 
26 of 106

--- page 27 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 6 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
Mateo may establish new height and density standards exceeding current height and density limits 
within the two new planning areas as part of the 2040 General Plan or by amending the General 
Plan without voter approval, only after it completes its community-planning process, and all 
required environmental review.”
2.
Land Use Policy LU 1.5 on page II-10 of the General Plan is hereby amended to read as follows:
“LU 1.5: Building Height.  Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix C, and as 
specified in Policy LU 6 A.2, closely matched with the Land Use categories and Building Intensity 
standards. 
Requests for height changes consistent with the height ranges for specific land uses as designated 
in Appendix C, entitled “Building Height”, may be considered by the City Council only when 
accompanied by a request for change in land use designation. Such requests may be approved only 
if the following findings are made:
1.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by additional building height;
2.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding building heights and 
promote the creation of a coherent City image;
3.
Increased building heights will still provide for a variety of building heights in the vicinity 
of the project and the surrounding areas;
4.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land uses, and will not 
create adverse shadow or visual impacts on surrounding residential uses; and
5.
The City’s infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed development.
Maximum height limits are intended to permit development which will not overburden the City's 
infrastructure or circulation system, which is consistent with the plan's intensity/density standards 
and is compatible with surrounding land uses, and which will preserve, to the extent feasible, the 
City's existing character. Height limits range from 25 feet to 90 feet and are contained in 
Appendices B and C. 
Generally, the residential areas are restricted to low maximum heights (32 feet) to protect 
established neighborhoods, although medium- and high-density multi-family areas have height 
limits up to 55 feet, to accommodate increased density. 
Generally, nNon-residential maximum heights range from 25 feet (nearest low-density residential 
areas) to 90 feet (manufacturing, public facilities, and major institutions). Generally, the maximum 
height is 55 feet.
Consistent with Land Use Policy LU 1.21, before January 1, 2031, voter approval shall be required to 
increase the height limits established in 2004 throughout the City, except that the City of San 
Mateo may establish height and density standards exceeding current height and density limits in a 
new planning area near the Downtown Caltrain Station and a new planning area near the Hillsdale 
and Hayward Park Caltrain stations in order to respond to the statewide housing crisis and promote 
more vibrant commercial areas and to promote a more informed and participatory planning 
process.”  
27 of 106

--- page 28 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 7 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
3.
Appendix C, Building Height
Appendix C of the General Plan is hereby amended as follows:
Appendix C
Building Height*****
LAND USE CATEGORY
Maximum Height
Residential:
 
Single-Family
24’
Low-Density Multi-Family
24’
Medium-Density Multi-Family
35’ to 55’
High-Density Multi-Family
35’ to 55’
Non-Residential:
 
Neighborhood Commercial
25’ to 55’
Regional/Community Commercial
35’ to 55’* **
Downtown
55’*
Service Commercial
30’
Manufacturing
35’ to 90’
Executive Office
25’ to 55’*
Public Facility
25’ to 75’
Parks/Open Space
32’
Utilities
32’
Transportation Corridors
32’
Major Institution/Special Facility
35’ to 90’
Mixed Use:
 
Executive Office/Low-Density Multi-Family
25’ to 45’
Executive Office/Medium-Density Multi-Family
25’ to 45’
Executive Office/High-Density Multi-Family
25’ to 55’*
Neighborhood Commercial/Medium-Density Multi-Family 35’
Neighborhood Commercial/High-Density Multi-Family
25’ to 55’
Regional/Community Commercial/High-Density Multi-
25’ to 55’*
Transit-Oriented Development
24’ to 55’****
* Height limits up to a maximum of 75 feet may be allowed in some areas within these land use categories, as 
specified the area specific policy for Downtown (PA 3), and Policies PA 5.2 and PA 6.3 of the Land Use Element.
** Height limits up to a maximum of 60 feet are also established for the Hillsdale Shopping Center as shown on 
the Site Plan entitled “Hillsdale Shopping Center”, dated April 19, 2004.
*** No new land use categories shall be authorized with building heights greater than 55 feet without voter 
approval, except that the City Council may establish height standards exceeding current height limits in the two 
planning areas designated on the map attached as Figure 1 and depicted below, as authorized by the voters in 
2020, in connection with the General Plan 2040. The two planning areas are described as follows:
28 of 106

--- page 29 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 8 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain Stations Planning Area
This planning area generally includes a half-mile radius around the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain 
Stations. Beginning at the corner of E. 16th Ave and S. Delaware St., its boundary continues south to 
along S. Delaware St. to 25th Ave., then along the Caltrain tracks south to 36th Ave., then west to Edison 
St., then north to 26th Place, west to Flores St., and north to W. 20th Ave, with adjustments to include the 
properties bounded on the east by Flores St., on the west by Hacienda St., on the south by Mary Lu 
Lane, and on the north by Lula Belle Lane, and to include the properties west of Hacienda St. between 
24th Ave. and W. 25th Ave. The planning area shall also include properties to the east and west of S. El 
Camino Real that are located within a half-mile radius of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station as depicted 
on the accompanying map. The area does not include single-family zoned property within the planning 
area, which may be designated as islands within the planning area on the accompanying map or may 
result in nuanced boundary lines when implemented by the City.
Downtown Caltrain Station Planning Area
This planning area generally includes a half-mile radius around the Downtown Caltrain Station. 
Beginning at the corner of E. Poplar Ave and Elm Street, its boundary continues east to N. Ellsworth Ave, 
then south to Baywood Ave, then east to the Caltrain tracks, then south to 1st Ave via N. Delaware St., 
then south to 9th Ave. along the property lines of the properties to the east of N. Delaware Street, then 
west to the property lines of the properties on the west side of S. El Camino Real, then north to the 
point of origination. The area does not include any single-family zoned property within the planning 
area.
**** Heights on areas indicated on the map that exceed the lowest height of the range are permitted if they 
conform with the 5 findings in General Plan Policy LU 1.5, as amended by Measure P, and subject to Land Use 
Policy LU-1.21.
***** In order to preserve height limits within the land use categories shown above in the City’s neighborhoods, 
voter approval shall be required to amend the General Plan to increase the height limits established by Measure 
P prior to January 1, 2031, except for development in the new planning area near the Downtown Caltrain Station 
and new planning area near the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations, which may be subject to height 
and density standards exceeding current height and density limits to be established by the City of San Mateo as 
part of the 2040 General Plan or by General Plan amendment without voter approval. 
29 of 106

--- page 30 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 9 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
Figure 1
Section 5
Increased Production of Affordable Housing
Text to be inserted in the General Plan is indicated in underline type, and text to be deleted is indicated in 
strikethrough type. Non-underlined text currently appears in the relevant document and is not changed or 
readopted by this Initiative. 
1.
Subsection 1 of Program H 2.4 of the City of San Mateo’s Housing Element, commencing on 
page 100, is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Program H 2.4: Private Development of Affordable Housing.
Encourage the provision of affordable housing by the private sector through:
30 of 106

--- page 31 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 10 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
1.
Maintain an inclusionary housing ordinance to implement Policy H 2.4. The ordinance shall 
include, at a minimum:
a)
At a minimum, require all projects which include more than 10 residential units, including 
mixed-use projects, shall be required 
to include 10% of the residential units for exclusive use as affordable housing units. 
b)
Consistent with Government Code Section 65850(g), the City Council shall provide alternative 
means of compliance with the City’s inclusionary housing ordinance that may include, but are not 
limited to, in-lieu fees, land dedication, off-site construction, or acquisition and rehabilitation of 
existing units. 
The project proponent shall build the unit(s) on site, either in partnership with a public or nonprofit 
housing agency, or on its own. Off-site building shall be allowed only if the proponent demonstrates 
that on-site construction is infeasible; and in any event, any off-site units must be built within the 
City of San Mateo. No in-lieu fees shall be allowed except for: i. Projects which include 10 units or 
less; or ii. Fractional affordable housing unit requirements of less than .5.
c)
The affordable units shall be as similar in exterior design and appearance as possible to the 
remaining units in the project.
d)
Affordable rental units shall carry deed restrictions which guarantee their affordability.
e)
Affordable for sale units shall have deed restrictions which allow for first right of refusal to the 
local government, upon the sale of the unit, in accordance with a procedure specified in an 
ordinance approved by the City Council. The City local government should only refuse the option of 
purchase if it has already expended all of its financial resources available for housing, including 
Community Development Block Grant funds, local housing trust fund monies, and any other federal, 
state or local funds typically available for affordable housing purposes. 
Lead: Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Division (Ongoing)”
Section 6
Clarification of Public Benefits Required to Achieve the Maximum Density Currently Allowed 
to Promote Additional Housing 
Text to be inserted in the General Plan is indicated in underline type, and text to be deleted is indicated in 
strikethrough type. Non-underlined text currently appears in the relevant document and is not changed or 
readopted by this Initiative. 
1.
The last four paragraphs of text following Land Use Policy LU 1.4 (Development 
Intensity/Density), commencing at the top of page II-10 of the Land Use Element of the City of 
San Mateo General Plan, are hereby amended as follows:
“The plan permits new multi-family residential development at a range of densities from 9 
to 50 units net per acre, with the higher end of the density range to be used only for 
projects which provide substantial public benefits or amenities. Residential development is 
also allowed in commercial districts. If expected development takes place, the city-wide 
average density is expected to increase from 10 to at least 12 units per net acre. 
Building intensity is a measurement of the amount of physical development allowed on a 
parcel. The Land Use Element utilizes a combination of building height and floor area ratio 
31 of 106

--- page 32 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 11 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
(FAR) (the gross floor area of a building divided by the net lot area to measure building 
intensity). 
The plan anticipates a range of new non-residential development by providing an FAR range 
of 0.5 up to a theoretical maximum of 3.0, and by establishing a range of permitted building 
heights from 25 feet to 90 feet. Higher height limits and the higher end of the FAR range are 
available only for projects which provide public benefits or amenities substantially greater 
than code requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, in light of the 
unprecedented statewide housing crisis, residential and mixed-use projects that comply 
with the City’s inclusionary housing ordinance shall be deemed eligible for higher height 
limits and the higher end of the FAR range, and shall not be required to provide additional 
public benefits or amenities beyond code requirements.  
The city-wide average FAR is expected to increase from .59, but to stay below .70, while 
average height will remain less than 45 feet.”
Section 7
Subsequent General Plan Amendments
A. Current General Plan. Except as provided elsewhere in this Initiative, the City of San Mateo may 
consider General Plan amendments relating to height and density, but shall not take final action to 
approve such an amendment without voter approval until the earlier of March 1, 2023, or the effective 
date of the City’s adoption of a new General Plan 2040.
B.
Non-material Amendments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and subject to any existing limitations on 
the number of times that the General Plan may be amended, the City of San Mateo may adopt non-
material amendments to any portion of the General Plan at any time, except that any revisions 
proposed to Appendix B and C, which depict density and height limits throughout the City of San Mateo, 
prior to the sunset date of this Initiative that are not consistent with the purposes, intent, or operative 
provisions of this Initiative must be approved by the voters. 
C.
Material Amendments. The General Plan and all of its elements and parts may be reviewed and 
amended by the City of San Mateo pursuant to Policy LU 6-2 and as may be required to conform to State 
law, without limitation, except that the City of San Mateo may not amend the General Plan in a manner 
inconsistent with the purposes, intent, or operative provisions of this Initiative, including provisions 
establishing maximum height limits and densities for specified uses outside of the two designated 
transit-oriented planning areas, or altering the boundaries of the two new planning areas, without voter 
approval. If the voters fail to approve the amendment, a court order shall be required to adopt the 
proposed amendment.
Section 8
Implementation
This Initiative shall be interpreted liberally to further its purposes. The City Council has authority to particularize 
and implement this Initiative by appropriate legislation and actions, including interpreting the map depicting the 
new planning areas, in all cases in full compliance with the substantive content and purposes of the Initiative.
Section 9
Severability
If any portion of this Initiative is hereafter determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, all 
remaining portions of this Initiative shall remain in full force and effect. Each section, subsection, sentence, 
phrase, part, or portion of this Initiative would have been adopted and passed irrespective of the fact that any 
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, parts of portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
32 of 106

--- page 33 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2020)
Page 12 of 12
Placing City Sponsored Measure on the Ballot 11-3-2020
Section 10
Effective Date and Duration
This Initiative shall take effect on January 1, 2021, and shall remain in effect through January 1, 2031.
Section 11
Conflicting Ballot Measures
In the event that this Initiative and another initiative relating to height and density standards in San Mateo shall 
appear on the same election ballot, the provisions of the other initiative shall be deemed in conflict with this 
Initiative. In the event that this Initiative shall receive a greater number of affirmative votes, the provisions of 
this Initiative shall prevail in their entirety, and the provisions of the other initiative shall be null and void.
33 of 106

--- page 34 ---
From: Linda Tolosano < >  
Sent: Wednesday, June 10, 2020 12:22 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Who do you work for? 
 
Who do you work for? 
Does San Mateo City Council truly represent San Mateo residents? The article below brings up valid points 
that I hope causes City Council Members to reflect on their responsibilities to the residents of our community, 
and not special interest groups who do not live here. 
 
San Mateo Ballot Initiatives 
Any initiative slotted for the November 2020 ballot needs to go through the process of gathering the required 
signatures (i.e. extending Measure P). It is not fair that a competing initiative should be considered that has 
not gone through the same process. The reason for signature gathering is to express public support for an 
initiative. If there are competing initiatives, they should be on a level playing field. 
 
Whose general plan is this anyway? 
By Keith Weber 
Eighteen months ago, before coronavirus paused San Mateo’s general plan update, the community was 
promised an extensive and “robust” public process. One that would be transparent, inclusive, and where the 
concerns and input from all residents would be heard. Outreach efforts were broadened to include those who 
may not have participated in planning efforts before. Now is a good time to look back and assess where we are.  
Of the more than 250 public comments posted on the city’s Strive San Mateo website, there are indeed many 
from concerned San Mateo residents. Reading through the comments, it becomes apparent that there are both 
pro-growth and measured-growth proponents among the local residents. This is as it should be. Differences of 
opinion can result in a productive debate and hopefully reconciliation.  
But there are also a significant number of comments from people who reside in other cities. These out-of-
towners are regular participants in the general plan meetings, workshops and online. They include paid 
YIMBYs from San Francisco; paid lobbyists and organizers who live in Oakland, Palo Alto and San Bruno; paid 
attorneys from San Francisco and consultants from Berkeley; activists from San Carlos, Belmont, Burlingame, 
East Palo Alto, Foster City and Woodside. These voices are exclusively very pro-development. It seems fair to 
ask, why in the world would the city of San Mateo put comments from residents of Oakland or Belmont on 
equal footing with those of San Mateo residents? After all, this is San Mateo’s general plan, isn’t it? Affording 
residents of other cities the same level of influence as local residents has a way of tilting the scales and unfairly 
influencing the process. 
San Mateo has traditionally been very attentive to including its residents in public policy decisions. Community 
advisory committees were the preferred form of engaging residents when the general plan needed revision, to 
generate a plan for a new transit center, and many other civic projects. Residents were brought into the 
34 of 106

--- page 35 ---
conversation early, given a seat at the table and made valuable contributions. That all changed in the early 
months of 2015. 
Real estate development interests convinced City Hall that there needed to be big changes in land use, warning 
that the community might not agree. Some at City Hall began to dream of grand-scale redevelopment. 
Neighborhood charm and small-town character were suddenly considered dispensable. Community advisory 
committees were shelved. Those who pushed for “higher and denser” were courted, regardless of their city of 
residence. In some influential circles it seemed, San Mateo residents were regarded as more of an impediment 
than an asset.   
It is in this political context that the general plan revision is taking place. But, not to worry, residents are still 
included in the process. It wouldn’t look good otherwise. But local residents’ input is now heavily diluted by 
growth lobbyists and paid operatives from all parts of the Bay Area. I suppose it’s one way to define broad and 
inclusive outreach — bring the foxes into the chicken coop and watch the feathers fly. 
San Mateo residents entered into the general plan revision process in good faith. We engaged in the 
conversation believing it would be the inclusive and fair exchange of ideas between San Mateans about the 
future of San Mateo. Apparently we were wrong. 
We all agree that there’s a dire need for more affordable housing at all income levels. But the manner in which 
housing and other matters are responsibly addressed in San Mateo is up to San Mateans, not residents of other 
communities. I for one, am very happy to live with the outcome of a fair and open discussion about height, 
density and land use in San Mateo, whether or not I agree with that outcome. As long as it is the result of broad 
participation of local residents and not of those with singular agendas who live elsewhere.   
So when the process eventually resumes, the question becomes whose interests is this general plan update 
intended to serve? If the outsized influence of special interest organizations and paid operatives living in other 
cities is permitted to continue, the promised “robust” general plan update process will turn out to be a ruse, 
giving us the best general plan money can buy. 
As the November election nears, there is ample opportunity for members of the City Council to step up and 
show leadership — to take active steps to prioritize the concerns, interests and viewpoints of San Mateo 
residents — and backbench the out-of-towners. After all, whose general plan is this anyway? 
Keith Weber is a participant in San Mateo’s general plan update. He has made San Mateo his home for 37 
years. 
Linda Tolosano 
San Mateo, CA 
35 of 106

--- page 36 ---
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Sherri Sager

Chair of the Board

Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford
Ariane Hogan

Vice Chair

Genentech

Robert Webster

Vice Chair

Bohannon Development Company
Steve Mincey

Past Chair of the Board

DES Architects + Engineers, inc.

Paul Casias

Vice Chair of Finance
My-Business-Adviser LLP

Elaine Breeze

Secretary

SummerHill Apartment Communities
Rosanne Foust

President & CEO

SAMCEDA

DIRECTORS

Emylene Aspilla

San Francisco international Airport
Frank Bartaldo

Heritage Bank of Commerce

Norman Book, Jr.
Carr McClellan

Ken Busch

Sares Regis Group of Northern Califarnia
Carol Donnelly

Embarcadero Capital Partners, LLC

Shelley Doran
Webcor

William Graham

Sequoia Hospital/A Dignity Health Member
Rick Knauf

Colliers international

Sunil Pandya
Wells Fargo

Frank R. Petrilli
Arent Fox LiP

Marlo Puccinelli
Recology San Mateo County
Doug Reynolds
Kaiser Permanente
Jonathan Scharfman
Randy Smith

Oracle America, inc.
Ashley Stanley

BKF Engineers

Lucy Wicks

Stanford University

EMERITUS ADVISOR
TO THE CHAIR

T. Jack Foster, Jr.
Foster Enterprises

June 10, 2020

Honorable Joe Goethals, Mayor, City of San Mateo
Honorable Members of the Council, City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dear Mayor Goethals and Members of the Council,

First, | would like to express our support and appreciation for all you and the Council and City staff have
done over the last several months to support the San Mateo community through challenging times. Your
dedication and commitment to residents, businesses of all sizes, non-profits and many others is deeply
appreciated.

Next Monday, the Council will be holding a study session to discuss a proposed alternative ballot
measure entitled The Neighborhood Protection, Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act regarding
height and density limits in the City of San Mateo.

1am writing on behalf of the Board of Directors of the San Mateo County Economic Development
Association (SAMCEDA) to express support for this alternative measure.

By way of background, SAMCEDA was founded in 1953 and to quote directly from our Articles of
Incorporation, “...to strive and labor toward, to further and promote a balanced economic growth of
San Mateo County. To develop cooperation and unified action in commercial, industrial, civic and
cultural fields in San Mateo County particularly and the San Francisco Bay generally. To promote the
general welfare of the area.”

These words and their meaning, written over 67 years ago still hold true today. In the last three months,
SAMCEDA has worked hand-in-hand with the County and our 20 communities, including the City of San
Mateo, to weather this crisis. We have heard and witnessed the disconnect within communities and we
believe the status quo is no longer an option.

As local leaders in business and economic policy, we support a balanced approach to development in San Mateo.
San Mateo is a leader in many ways and we applaud all you have done and hope to do going forward.
We believe there is a strong need for flexibility in the future, especially as we begin the long road to
economic recovery.

In addition, while the SAMCEDA Board voted to oppose the proposed extension of Measure P and
appreciate the Council also opposing it, we respect the opportunity for residents to have a choice. We
believe The Neighborhood Protection, Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act provides this choice and
we encourage the Council to strongly consider placing it on the November Ballot.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

La

Rosanne Foust, President & CEO

1900 O'Farrell Street, Suite 380 | San Mateo, California 94403 | 650.413.5600 | info@samceda.org | www.samceda.org

36 of 106


--- page 37 ---
From: Nicole Fernandez >  
Sent: Monday, June 01, 2020 2:21 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett 
<dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Kohar Kojayan <kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Shawn Mason 
<smason@cityofsanmateo.org> 
 
Subject: Update on Neighborhood Protection/Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act 
 
Dear Mayor, Council and Staff, 
 
I hope all of you are safe during these difficult times.  
 
Attached, please see a letter from Alan Talansky, Rich Hedges and myself regarding the Neighborhood 
Protection/Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act. We kindly request Council consider introducing 
this ballot measure as a council-sponsored motion.  
 
We continue to be very appreciative of your leadership.  
 
Sincerely, 
Nicole Fernandez 
Alan Talansky  
Rich Hedges 
 
37 of 106

--- page 38 ---
Nicole Fernandez 
Alan Talansky 
Richard Hedges 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
June 1, 2020 
 
Mayor Joe Goethals 
Members of the San Mateo City Council 
San Mateo City Hall 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: Request for City Council to Introduce the Neighborhood Protection/Housing Opportunity 
and Affordability Act as a Council-Sponsored Ballot Measure   
 
Dear Honorable Mayor Goethals and Members of the City Council:  
 
We would like to thank you for your action recently in unanimously opposing the extension of 
Measure P on this November’s ballot. It is our opinion that Measure P has significantly restricted 
San Mateo’s ability to build affordable housing and hindered planning efforts for the last 30 years 
since it was first adopted. Extending a 30-year-old, outdated, irresponsible and restrictive policy 
for another 10 years is totally imprudent. So again, thank you for opposing the measure. 
 
Most importantly, if this extension measure is passed, it could jeopardize the comprehensive 
community planning process in the General Plan Update and open our City up to intervention by 
the State to meet our regional housing allocation requirements. This is no way to plan for our 
future. As was pointed out in your proceedings, the recently conducted community survey shows 
that this is not what San Mateans want. Instead, they want the City to better plan for growth, to 
make more of opportunity sites, and to concentrate new development along Caltrain stations to 
improve transit usage, reduce dependence on automobile use, and reduce GHG emissions. 
 
At the same time, we also know that San Mateans want to protect our many single-family 
residential neighborhoods from increased height and density that will likely come if growth cannot 
be concentrated in the right locations near transit. For these reasons we agree with the Council that 
the extension of Measure P is inconsistent with the community’s opinions on how to responsibly 
plan for the future, and would unduly restrict the community planning process and debilitate efforts 
necessary to help our City in its recovery from COVID-19. 
 
We believe that there is a better choice for San Mateo. And with an issue this big, residents deserve 
to have that better choice on the ballot in November. This is why we submitted the Neighborhood 
Protection/ Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act with the intent of gathering signatures to 
qualify it for the ballot. Our measure truly protects San Mateo neighborhoods from the type of 
development that most worry may happen with State mandates for communities that do not meet 
their obligations. In addition to better protecting our neighborhoods, the measure also respects the 
community planning process by removing the restrictions that would come from Measure P’s 
extension. Lastly, our measure eliminates barriers to affordable housing generation that hinders 
the City’s ability to respond to the housing crisis and provide more housing choices for everyone 
who wants to live in San Mateo. 
38 of 106

--- page 39 ---
Most importantly, the Neighborhood Protection/ Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act only 
allows for the community to make these decisions through a comprehensive General Plan Update 
process like the one underway. It prescribes no specifics on heights or densities. It only allows for 
professional planners to do their work and to facilitate community conversations that allow the 
best, most inclusive and most equitable solutions to prevail. 
 
Unfortunately, despite early success at gathering signatures, shelter-in-place restrictions have 
made further signature gathering efforts physically impossible and even illegal. Even as we now 
look to less restrictive health orders, the remaining orders are prohibitive to the purpose of 
signature gathering. 
 
We have come to the conclusion that we will not be able to restart signature gathering in order to 
qualify the measure for the November ballot. We now instead ask for the City’s help and request 
that the San Mateo City Council place this measure on the ballot as a city-sponsored measure. 
While we may not be able to qualify this act through the initiative process, nothing prohibits the 
City from taking these policies directly to the voters. The provisions of the measure do not trigger 
any CEQA requirements to place it on the ballot and we believe the policies are entirely consistent 
with the Council’s unanimous views on the topic as expressed in your opposition position to the 
Measure P extension. 
 
We hope in a near future meeting that the Council will review our request and move forward to 
place it before the voters in November. This allows San Mateans to have a choice about how we 
really protect our neighborhoods, about how we plan for our City’s future and its needed economic 
recovery, and about how we can enable the development of affordable housing, not hinder it. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
__________________ 
 
________________ 
 
________________  
Richard Hedges 
 
 
Nicole Fernandez 
 
Alan Talansky  
 
 
 
 
cc: Drew Corbett, City Manager 
      Kohar Kojayan, Director of Community Development 
      Shawn Mason, City Attorney 
 
 
39 of 106

--- page 40 ---
From: Ellis Berns < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 10:16 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: Agenda Item 2 Study Session -Support - City Council Proposition 
 
June 16, 2020 
City of San Mateo City Hall  
330 West 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
  
 Honorable Mayor Goethals and City Councilmembers: 
  
I am writing to express my support for the ballot measure written by the city council for the 
November 2020 ballot.  
  
The measure proposed by SMRG continues to limit the City Council’s ability to plan for the 
future. I believe that the Council’s proposal does not go far enough, and that the City should 
proceed with the General Plan with neither limitations nor restrictions from any ballot 
measure.   Alternatively, I would strongly encourage the City Council to consider amending their 
proposal to study density not just in the new planning areas (near the Downtown, Hillsdale and 
Hayward Park Caltrain stations) but throughout the entire community. This would create more 
flexibility to build more housing in our community. If neither of these alternatives are feasible, I 
support the City proposal that would allow heights and density in certain areas around transit 
centers.   
  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
  
Sincerely 
  
  
Ellis M. Berns 
Resident, City of San Mateo     
 
 
40 of 106

--- page 41 ---
June 11, 2020 
 
Dear Mayor and City Council Members,  
  
  The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce has taken a position in 
support of the Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act. We have also 
taken a position to oppose the extension of Measure P submitted by the 
group SMRG. 
  
  The mission of the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce is to create an 
environment for businesses to start, grow, and succeed. The Housing 
Opportunity and Affordability Act will give the community and the City 
Council the much needed ability to suitably plan for all of our future needs - 
economic, health-related and for housing. 
  
  Our members urge you to join us and support this measure and place it on 
the November ballot, to give San Mateans a real choice to shape their city 
and our future. We also thank you for unanimously opposing the SMRG 
extension. 
  
 
Very Truly Yours, 
 
 
Cheryl Angeles 
President & CEO 
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce 
 
 
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce 
1730 S. Amphlett Blvd, Ste. 206, San Mateo, CA 94402 - (650) 401-2440 
41 of 106

--- page 42 ---
----- Forwarded Message ----- 
From: Jean Dail < > 
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org 
<rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020, 3:04:21 PM PDT 
Subject: Why have you taken up developers' over residents' desires? 
 
REVISED with typos corrected 
 
Honorable City Council members: 
 
I don't know that you understand how miserable and debilitating it is to continually watch our 
City Council members advocate for developers (of whom many do not even have their primary 
business in San Mateo, much less live here as residents or voters). 
 
Why didn't you work with SMRG to reform / redesign / improve / modify Measure P, if you felt it 
didn't address your vision of the transit corridor for additional development?  I would like to 
hear from each of you as to what exactly kept you from discussing and negotiating with 
your constituents?   
 
Don't tell me that Michael Weinhauer and other SMRG members did not want to talk with you. ... 
my information states otherwise.  Did you think spending the time to come up with a 
compromise with the residents was somehow less effective than working with the developers?  I 
just don't understand how the entire City Council can just turn its back on an involved resident 
based group???   What do you think you are saying to all of the City of San Mateo? 
 
How can you so "dis" the citizens of San Mateo?  Over and over and over you continuously 
bend over backwards to assist the developers and thwart those of us in SMRG.  What is up with 
this action?  How do you expect someone like me not to believe there is money driving these 
actions?  What do you want me to believe?  Please let me know.  There must be some really 
critical reason for you to not only ignore, but down right go against 7,000+ citizens and the 
extension of Measure P.  Please explain yourselves - I am very interested to hear how it is in 
the best interest of the City Council to not seriously and genuinely work with SMRG. 
 
I sincerely hope to hear from each one of you. 
 
 
Thank you for your time... stay safe and be well -  Jean Dail 
 
42 of 106

--- page 43 ---
From: Nicole Fernandez < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 11:31 AM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@gmail.com>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane 
Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re: Neighborhood Protection, Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act 
 
Dear Mayor Goethals and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 (AGENDA REVISION CHANGE THE ITEM # TO 2) 
I am writing to you in support of item #1 on your agenda for the June 15, 2020 Special Study 
Session meeting. Along with two other fellow San Mateans, I sponsored this measure and 
believe it to be the right path for our city to respond to housing and economic demands in the 
future. While signature gathering for this effort was successful early on, public health concerns 
have made it impossible to continue and I am appreciative of the council’s consideration of this 
measure. 
  
San Mateans ought to have the opportunity to choose in an election and set the direction of 
their city. I humbly ask that you place this measure on the November ballot. 
  
Respectfully, 
Nicole Fernandez  
 
43 of 106

--- page 44 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
June 13, 2020 
City of San Mateo City Hall  
330 West 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
RE: Support - City Council measure 
 
Dear Mayor Goethals: 
 
The Housing Leadership of San Mateo County works with communities and their leaders to 
create and preserve quality affordable homes.  
 
We write to express our support for a ballot measure written by the city council for the 2020 
ballot.  
 
We oppose the measure that was placed on the ballot by SMRG. The exclusionary housing 
measure, rooted in bigotry and discrimination, should be roundly defeated in the fall and I hope 
that happens. Unfortunately, many community members in San Mateo are fearful of new 
development in single family neighborhoods. While we believe a community’s character comes 
from the people who live in the community and not the heights and densities of the buildings, we 
understand that many community members are concerned about development in their 
neighborhoods. Unfortunately, the SMRG measure is not just bad policy, it also puts the city at 
risk of litigation and makes it almost impossible for us to meet our future housing needs without 
developing in the neighborhoods. 
 
San Mateo voters should have an option to preserve single family neighborhoods that does not 
put the City at risk of litigation, allows us to proactively address climate change, does not 
prevent housing for our most vulnerable residents, and is respectful of the general plan. We ask 
that the measure reflect the values that have been agreed upon through the general plan 
process, eliminate the density requirement everywhere, and create more flexibility in the 
inclusionary policy to make it easier to build more deeply affordable homes. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Evelyn Stivers 
Executive Director 
 
 
44 of 106

--- page 45 ---
From: JANE JAMES < >  
Sent: Saturday, June 13, 2020 2:44 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Study Session on June 15 
 
 
Dear City Council Study Session, 
 
I understand the June 15 Study Session is to discuss a measure for the November ballot that 
was written by Bohannon Development.  Why is the City Council so helpful to Bohannon 
Development,  as compared with its action in 2018 when actual taxpayers and property owners 
wanted a height limitation measure placed on the ballot?  Then the Council dd not help the 
taxpayers when we wanted Measure P placed on the ballot.  Earlier this year the Council was 
concerned about “stifling” the General Plan process, and yet now, the Council is going out of its 
way to help Bohannon Development-get its written measure on the ballot.  Why doesn’t the 
Council consider that “stifling” the General Plan process? 
 
Is the Council giving Bohannon special, favorable treatment?     
 
Jane James 
San Mateo Property Owner and Resident  
 
45 of 106

--- page 46 ---
From Lisa Maley>  
Sent: Friday, June 12, 2020 1:32 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: June 15 Study Session Questions 
 
Councilmembers: 
I have the following questions that I hope will be discussed and answered at the June 15, 2020 
study session: 
1. Why would City Council consider placing the Bohannon Measure on the ballot when 
they are a special interest group concerned first and foremost with their bottom line, 
not the wellbeing of our city? 
2. Why would City Council place the Bohannon Measure on the ballot when Bohannon 
Development did not ever endeavor to collect signatures? Certainly, they had the same 
opportunity to collect signatures at the time signatures were collected for the Measure 
P extension (MPE). Was Bohannon banking that a future challenge to the MPE would be 
upheld by Council so they did not need to go through the same process?  
3. Bohannon has the money and the means to adapt to adversarial situations so why are 
they asking City Council to place their measure on the ballot when they have not made 
any effort to gain support for their measure and collect signatures. Standing outside the 
Safeway is not the only way to collect signatures; we have all adjusted to accomplish our 
goals during this time and there is technology to support alternative means of getting 
things done. 
4. Why is City Council so eager to study putting the Bohannon measure on the ballot when 
every effort was made to quash placing the MPE on the ballot?  
5. Why would the Bohannon measure not stifle the GP process as Council has stated the 
MPE would?  
Sincerely, 
Lisa Maley 
 
46 of 106

--- page 47 ---
From: Barb Niss < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 10:20 AM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<amourence@gmail.com> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Study Session agenda item 
 
Dear City Council Members, 
 
In looking at the agenda for today's meetings, I was very surprised and dismayed by the Study 
Session agenda item #2: 
   
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council Proposition on 
the Ballot   
 
Back in 2018, the City Council did nothing to assist the citizens Measure to extend the height 
and density limits and actually refused to put it on the ballot.  San Mateans for Responsive 
Government (a.k.a. SMRG) was able to coordinate dozens of volunteer residents to work our 
butts off collecting signatures to get their Measure on the ballot so the citizens voices could be 
heard.  They did everything necessary and 2 years in advance of the current Measure P expiring 
to ensure their Measure would be on the ballot.  When asked if you would put the Measure on 
the ballot for SMRG, you unequivocally denied them.   
 
The Bohannon Development group unsuccessfully tried to block the citizens' Measure from getting 
to the ballot.  And, now that they have not succeeded, they decided to write their own 
measure?  They could have started this work in 2018, they did not have to wait until 2020 to do 
this.  The fact that a Pandemic stopped them from obtaining the necessary resident's 
signatures for this competing measure to be placed on the ballot is not the problem of this City 
Council.   
 
It is also not the City's job to pay for putting a competing measure on the ballot.  These are not 
your personal funds, and it would not be appropriate for you, elected representatives, to use 
taxpayer dollars to support one measure and not the other.   
 
If you are so concerned about listening to your constituents at the ballot box (I don't 
understand why this frightens you), then please listen to the citizens who are telling you we 
don't want you to pay for OR support a developer's initiative! 
 
If you choose to support the developer's initiative, you will show the citizens of San Mateo that 
you are supporting or even working with/for the developers and not for the constituents who 
entrusted you to care for our city.  I've heard enough of these arguments made by residents 
over the years and have always questioned their information and said although I don't agree 
47 of 106

--- page 48 ---
with many of the decisions made by this council, I don't believe you are paid off by unions and 
developers.  Please don't prove me wrong on this point. 
 
Finally, once the citizens Measure was confirmed to be placed on the ballot, you immediately took 
the public stance to oppose the Meausre claiming that it stifled the general plan process.  If you 
put this measure on the ballot, will you be making the same public claim? 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Barbara Niss 
Sunnybrae 
 
48 of 106

--- page 49 ---
From: Michael Weinhauer <  
Sent: Sunday, June 14, 2020 7:37 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SMRG Statement re: 6/15/2020 Special Meeting Agenda Item #2 
 
June 14, 2020 
 
 
SUBJECT: City Council Study Session, June 15, 2020, Agenda Item #2,  
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council 
Proposition on the Ballot 
 
Members of the City Council: 
 
San Mateans for Responsive Government -SMRG- respectfully comes before you as active 
community members and, in some cases friends, while recognizing that we sometimes differ on 
specific city policies. But we have always played by the rules and strongly believe in our democratic 
rights to hold our elected officials accountable to the voters they serve. Sadly, we make our statement 
tonight, not in the hope of influencing the discussion. We know a done deal when we see one. But we 
believe the public is entitled to hear us, and understand just what is happening here. We believe that 
agreeing to do what you are being asked tonight is just wrong. This is an ethical line that should not 
be crossed; yet it provides a clear example of how much money talks in politics. 
 
Asking the Council to do what this developer/real estate sponsored group couldn't do for themselves 
(and what you refused to do for the Measure P supporters) is a case study of why Measures H and P 
were written and approved twice by the residents and voters of San Mateo. What kind of trust are 
your constituents who spent countless hours and effort to collect signatures and the 7000+ voters 
who signed the petitions supposed to have when they followed the rules, yet at the last minute the 
Council decides to put on a competing measure. It is not fair. It is wrong. But clearly, money talks. 
     
The Council has assured us that they will not change any existing General Plan policies until the new 
General Plan is adopted and implemented. Even the pre-Covid 19 General Plan timeline indicated 
that it is unlikely to be completed prior to 2023-24. If the proponents of this competing measure want 
to replace Measure P, which is part of the existing General Plan, let them do the hard work to place 
their measure on the ballot in 2022. As the Council has said, nothing will have changed by then. 
There is no compelling reason for this competing measure to be placed on the ballot at this time. 
Unless, of course, money talks.  
 
Let's look at why this measure is being proposed before the General Plan process is completed. The 
Measure P extension is an insurance policy for the community that changes will not be made to the 
existing General Plan until the update is complete, just as the Council has promised. While the 
Measure P extension merely continues the General Plan status quo, the competing 
measure proposes significant changes to the existing General Plan. This opens the door for large 
property owners and developers to bring forward projects as soon as Measure P expires.  
 
The three people who are asking the Council to take this unprecedented action represent the most 
pro-development interests in San Mateo: Nicole Fernandez-Chair of the San Mateo County 
Democratic Central Committee; Rich Hedges-long time union representative; and Alan Talansky-
49 of 106

--- page 50 ---
developer of Station Park Green and Executive VP of Development for EBL&S responsible for 
acquiring and entitling developments, business strategy and new investment opportunities for his 
employer. 
 
Who is really behind the measure these three proponents are asking you to put on the ballot and why 
isn't this affiliation clearly identified?  According to the FPPC legal filing, the measure "San Mateans 
for Neighborhood Protection & Affordable Housing" is sponsored by Robert L. Webster & Affiliated 
Entities, including the David D. Bohannon Organization. The Bohannon Company, owners of Hillsdale 
Mall and adjacent properties, has already contributed $200,000 to pass this measure.  Should we be 
surprised?  Money talks. 
 
In closing, let's be clear about the political spin that surrounds this issue. The extension of Measure P 
will not short-circuit the City’s proposed General Plan process. Since P is already part of the General 
Plan, it provides the baseline development standards with which new ideas and proposals can be 
compared. Once a revised General Plan is finalized, even if Measure P is extended, it can be, and 
should be, presented to the voters for approval. Nothing is locked in that can't be changed by a vote 
of the people.  
 
With issues this big and this important to the residents of San Mateo, a vote of the people is the best 
way to confirm that the future revisions to the General Plan have the support of the community. And 
the community has the assurance that changes cannot be made without their consent by just 3 votes 
of their elected officials.  San Mateo residents determined many years ago that some development 
decisions cannot be left to just 3 votes of the City Council on any Monday night.  Why?  Because too 
often plans that were approved with much public effort and participation, were changed just because 
a developer wanted even more. Remember, money talks.  
 
Please do not take ownership of this measure and spend up to $200,000 of our taxpayer money to 
place this on November’s ballot. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michael Weinhauer, Spokesperson 
San Mateans for Responsive Government 
 
50 of 106

--- page 51 ---
From: l watanuki <  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 2:21 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: lwatanuki6@gmail.com 
Subject: Item #2 - No on Council's Adoption of Developer/Real Estate Competing Measure 
 
Dear Members of the City Council, 
 
Please do not take ownership of this competing measure and spend up to $200,000 of our 
taxpayers money to place this on November’s ballot.  
  
If the proponents of this competing measure want to replace Measure P, which is part of the 
existing General Plan, let them do the hard work to place their measure on the ballot in 2022.  
 
With issues this big and this important to the residents of San Mateo, a vote of the people is the 
best way to confirm that the future revisions to the General Plan have the support of the 
community.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
51 of 106

--- page 52 ---
From: Bob Whitehair < >  
Sent: Saturday, June 13, 2020 11:05 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City Sponsored Ballot Proposition 
 
Mayor Goethals and Members of the Council 
 
I write to express my support for a ballot measure written by the City Council for the 
2020 ballot, as is being considered at your June 15, 2020 meeting.  
  
I oppose the measure already scheduled for the ballot. That exclusionary housing 
measure, rooted in historic bigotry and shameful discrimination, should be roundly 
defeated in the fall and I hope that happens.  I know that many community members are 
fearful of new development in single family neighborhoods but please know that I too 
am also fearful - that we will not maintain the character of our fantastic, vibrant city, 
the place where my wife and I raised a family. Adopting a measure artificially keeping 
home values high to the detriment of so many people, is just plain wrong and short 
sighted. 
 
The measure already on the ballot places unacceptable height restrictions on the City, 
and it makes completion of your carefully planned and well funded general plan process 
much more difficult and perhaps impossible. 
 
Some have already commented that San Mateo voters should have an option to 
preserve single family neighborhoods, one that does not put the City at risk of litigation, 
one that allows us to proactively address climate change, and most importantly one that 
does not prevent housing for our most vulnerable residents.  I agree.  Please approve 
the proposed ballot measure before you on Monday. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
 
Robert Whitehair 
San Mateo 
 
52 of 106

--- page 53 ---
City Council Meeting
General Plan Implications of Alternative 
Ballot Measure
June 15, 2020
53 of 106

--- page 54 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
Boundary Comparison
» Largely based on Study 
Areas 3, 4, and 5 but smaller 
in size.
» Like GPU Study Areas, 
single-family parcels have 
been carved out.
54 of 106

--- page 55 ---
Alternative
General Plan 
Ballot Measure
June 15, 2020
55 of 106

--- page 56 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
• Purpose: Council to decide whether to place a ballot measure on the 
ballot for the General Municipal Election on November 3, 2020
• Presentation will address the context within which this question is 
being considered
• Presentation will address the potential impacts of this decision on the 
General Plan Update process currently underway
56 of 106

--- page 57 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
• Existing General Plan
• Contains limits on building heights and intensities, and affordable 
housing policies originally adopted by the voters in Measure H and 
extended by Measure P.
• The provisions in Measure P expire at the end of 2020
• In 2018, San Mateans for Responsive Government (SMRG) 
gathered signatures to qualify a ballot measure to extend 
Measure P sunset date to the end of 2030
57 of 106

--- page 58 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
•The SMRG measure will appear on the Nov 2020 
ballot
•February 2020, proponents of an alternative measure 
notified the city that they would be gathering 
signatures to qualify an alternative measure to be 
submitted to the voters in November.
58 of 106

--- page 59 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
Starting in March 2020, the San Mateo County Health Officer 
issued Shelter in Place orders that prevented this group from 
obtaining signatures on the petition for the alternative 
measure.
On June 1, the proponents of the alternative measure 
requested that the city council exercise its authority under the 
Elections Code to place their measure on the ballot as a 
council proposition.
59 of 106

--- page 60 ---
Alternative General Plan Measure
• The City Council directed staff to schedule this request for 
tonight’s meeting
60 of 106

--- page 61 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
•Features of alternative measure:
• 10 year term
• Freezes height and intensity limits throughout the community, 
except for designated areas in the vicinity of San Mateo’s three 
Caltrain stations
• Authorizes city council to increase height and intensity limits in 
these areas after completing its general plan update process
61 of 106

--- page 62 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
• Features of proposed measure (cont’d.)
• Authorizes city council provide alternatives to BMR units, including 
in lieu fees
• Provides that a project that complies with inclusionary housing 
requirements may be developed at the maximum height and 
building intensity limits without providing public benefits beyond 
code requirements. 
62 of 106

--- page 63 ---
Alternative General Plan Ballot Measure
• Proposed Revision to Ballot Question:
Shall the proposed ordinance to amend the City of San Mateo General 
Plan to authorize the City Council to approve increases in building 
heights and intensities in designated areas that are close to major 
transit, to extend for ten years the expiration date for voter-enacted 
policies limiting building heights and intensities, and to make other 
specified amendments to affordable housing policies in the plan, be 
adopted?
63 of 106

--- page 64 ---
Alternative to General Plan Ballot Measure
• Questions:
• Does the City Council want to place the alternative general plan 
ballot measure on the November ballot?
• If yes, does the City Council want to replace the ballot question 
with the revised question presented by a member of the public?  
• Is there some other alternative action the City Council would like 
to take?
64 of 106

--- page 65 ---
From: Ellis Berns < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 10:16 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: RE: Agenda Item 2 Study Session -Support - City Council Proposition 
 
June 16, 2020 
City of San Mateo City Hall  
330 West 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
  
 Honorable Mayor Goethals and City Councilmembers: 
  
I am writing to express my support for the ballot measure written by the city council for the 
November 2020 ballot.  
  
The measure proposed by SMRG continues to limit the City Council’s ability to plan for the 
future. I believe that the Council’s proposal does not go far enough, and that the City should 
proceed with the General Plan with neither limitations nor restrictions from any ballot 
measure.   Alternatively, I would strongly encourage the City Council to consider amending their 
proposal to study density not just in the new planning areas (near the Downtown, Hillsdale and 
Hayward Park Caltrain stations) but throughout the entire community. This would create more 
flexibility to build more housing in our community. If neither of these alternatives are feasible, I 
support the City proposal that would allow heights and density in certain areas around transit 
centers.   
  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
  
Sincerely 
  
  
Ellis M. Berns 
Resident, City of San Mateo     
 
 
65 of 106

--- page 66 ---
June 11, 2020 
 
Dear Mayor and City Council Members,  
  
  The San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce has taken a position in 
support of the Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act. We have also 
taken a position to oppose the extension of Measure P submitted by the 
group SMRG. 
  
  The mission of the San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce is to create an 
environment for businesses to start, grow, and succeed. The Housing 
Opportunity and Affordability Act will give the community and the City 
Council the much needed ability to suitably plan for all of our future needs - 
economic, health-related and for housing. 
  
  Our members urge you to join us and support this measure and place it on 
the November ballot, to give San Mateans a real choice to shape their city 
and our future. We also thank you for unanimously opposing the SMRG 
extension. 
  
 
Very Truly Yours, 
 
 
Cheryl Angeles 
President & CEO 
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce 
 
 
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce 
1730 S. Amphlett Blvd, Ste. 206, San Mateo, CA 94402 - (650) 401-2440 
66 of 106

--- page 67 ---
----- Forwarded Message ----- 
From: Jean Dail < > 
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org 
<rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020, 3:04:21 PM PDT 
Subject: Why have you taken up developers' over residents' desires? 
 
REVISED with typos corrected 
 
Honorable City Council members: 
 
I don't know that you understand how miserable and debilitating it is to continually watch our 
City Council members advocate for developers (of whom many do not even have their primary 
business in San Mateo, much less live here as residents or voters). 
 
Why didn't you work with SMRG to reform / redesign / improve / modify Measure P, if you felt it 
didn't address your vision of the transit corridor for additional development?  I would like to 
hear from each of you as to what exactly kept you from discussing and negotiating with 
your constituents?   
 
Don't tell me that Michael Weinhauer and other SMRG members did not want to talk with you. ... 
my information states otherwise.  Did you think spending the time to come up with a 
compromise with the residents was somehow less effective than working with the developers?  I 
just don't understand how the entire City Council can just turn its back on an involved resident 
based group???   What do you think you are saying to all of the City of San Mateo? 
 
How can you so "dis" the citizens of San Mateo?  Over and over and over you continuously 
bend over backwards to assist the developers and thwart those of us in SMRG.  What is up with 
this action?  How do you expect someone like me not to believe there is money driving these 
actions?  What do you want me to believe?  Please let me know.  There must be some really 
critical reason for you to not only ignore, but down right go against 7,000+ citizens and the 
extension of Measure P.  Please explain yourselves - I am very interested to hear how it is in 
the best interest of the City Council to not seriously and genuinely work with SMRG. 
 
I sincerely hope to hear from each one of you. 
 
 
Thank you for your time... stay safe and be well -  Jean Dail 
 
67 of 106

--- page 68 ---
From: Nicole Fernandez < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 11:31 AM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@gmail.com>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane 
Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re: Neighborhood Protection, Housing Opportunity and Affordability Act 
 
Dear Mayor Goethals and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 (AGENDA REVISION CHANGE THE ITEM # TO 2) 
I am writing to you in support of item #1 on your agenda for the June 15, 2020 Special Study 
Session meeting. Along with two other fellow San Mateans, I sponsored this measure and 
believe it to be the right path for our city to respond to housing and economic demands in the 
future. While signature gathering for this effort was successful early on, public health concerns 
have made it impossible to continue and I am appreciative of the council’s consideration of this 
measure. 
  
San Mateans ought to have the opportunity to choose in an election and set the direction of 
their city. I humbly ask that you place this measure on the November ballot. 
  
Respectfully, 
Nicole Fernandez  
 
68 of 106

--- page 69 ---
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org 
June 13, 2020 
City of San Mateo City Hall  
330 West 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
RE: Support - City Council measure 
 
Dear Mayor Goethals: 
 
The Housing Leadership of San Mateo County works with communities and their leaders to 
create and preserve quality affordable homes.  
 
We write to express our support for a ballot measure written by the city council for the 2020 
ballot.  
 
We oppose the measure that was placed on the ballot by SMRG. The exclusionary housing 
measure, rooted in bigotry and discrimination, should be roundly defeated in the fall and I hope 
that happens. Unfortunately, many community members in San Mateo are fearful of new 
development in single family neighborhoods. While we believe a community’s character comes 
from the people who live in the community and not the heights and densities of the buildings, we 
understand that many community members are concerned about development in their 
neighborhoods. Unfortunately, the SMRG measure is not just bad policy, it also puts the city at 
risk of litigation and makes it almost impossible for us to meet our future housing needs without 
developing in the neighborhoods. 
 
San Mateo voters should have an option to preserve single family neighborhoods that does not 
put the City at risk of litigation, allows us to proactively address climate change, does not 
prevent housing for our most vulnerable residents, and is respectful of the general plan. We ask 
that the measure reflect the values that have been agreed upon through the general plan 
process, eliminate the density requirement everywhere, and create more flexibility in the 
inclusionary policy to make it easier to build more deeply affordable homes. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Evelyn Stivers 
Executive Director 
 
 
69 of 106

--- page 70 ---
From: JANE JAMES < >  
Sent: Saturday, June 13, 2020 2:44 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Study Session on June 15 
 
 
Dear City Council Study Session, 
 
I understand the June 15 Study Session is to discuss a measure for the November ballot that 
was written by Bohannon Development.  Why is the City Council so helpful to Bohannon 
Development,  as compared with its action in 2018 when actual taxpayers and property owners 
wanted a height limitation measure placed on the ballot?  Then the Council dd not help the 
taxpayers when we wanted Measure P placed on the ballot.  Earlier this year the Council was 
concerned about “stifling” the General Plan process, and yet now, the Council is going out of its 
way to help Bohannon Development-get its written measure on the ballot.  Why doesn’t the 
Council consider that “stifling” the General Plan process? 
 
Is the Council giving Bohannon special, favorable treatment?     
 
Jane James 
San Mateo Property Owner and Resident  
 
70 of 106

--- page 71 ---
From Lisa Maley>  
Sent: Friday, June 12, 2020 1:32 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: June 15 Study Session Questions 
 
Councilmembers: 
I have the following questions that I hope will be discussed and answered at the June 15, 2020 
study session: 
1. Why would City Council consider placing the Bohannon Measure on the ballot when 
they are a special interest group concerned first and foremost with their bottom line, 
not the wellbeing of our city? 
2. Why would City Council place the Bohannon Measure on the ballot when Bohannon 
Development did not ever endeavor to collect signatures? Certainly, they had the same 
opportunity to collect signatures at the time signatures were collected for the Measure 
P extension (MPE). Was Bohannon banking that a future challenge to the MPE would be 
upheld by Council so they did not need to go through the same process?  
3. Bohannon has the money and the means to adapt to adversarial situations so why are 
they asking City Council to place their measure on the ballot when they have not made 
any effort to gain support for their measure and collect signatures. Standing outside the 
Safeway is not the only way to collect signatures; we have all adjusted to accomplish our 
goals during this time and there is technology to support alternative means of getting 
things done. 
4. Why is City Council so eager to study putting the Bohannon measure on the ballot when 
every effort was made to quash placing the MPE on the ballot?  
5. Why would the Bohannon measure not stifle the GP process as Council has stated the 
MPE would?  
Sincerely, 
Lisa Maley 
 
71 of 106

--- page 72 ---
From: Barb Niss < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 10:20 AM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<amourence@gmail.com> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Study Session agenda item 
 
Dear City Council Members, 
 
In looking at the agenda for today's meetings, I was very surprised and dismayed by the Study 
Session agenda item #2: 
   
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council Proposition on 
the Ballot   
 
Back in 2018, the City Council did nothing to assist the citizens Measure to extend the height 
and density limits and actually refused to put it on the ballot.  San Mateans for Responsive 
Government (a.k.a. SMRG) was able to coordinate dozens of volunteer residents to work our 
butts off collecting signatures to get their Measure on the ballot so the citizens voices could be 
heard.  They did everything necessary and 2 years in advance of the current Measure P expiring 
to ensure their Measure would be on the ballot.  When asked if you would put the Measure on 
the ballot for SMRG, you unequivocally denied them.   
 
The Bohannon Development group unsuccessfully tried to block the citizens' Measure from getting 
to the ballot.  And, now that they have not succeeded, they decided to write their own 
measure?  They could have started this work in 2018, they did not have to wait until 2020 to do 
this.  The fact that a Pandemic stopped them from obtaining the necessary resident's 
signatures for this competing measure to be placed on the ballot is not the problem of this City 
Council.   
 
It is also not the City's job to pay for putting a competing measure on the ballot.  These are not 
your personal funds, and it would not be appropriate for you, elected representatives, to use 
taxpayer dollars to support one measure and not the other.   
 
If you are so concerned about listening to your constituents at the ballot box (I don't 
understand why this frightens you), then please listen to the citizens who are telling you we 
don't want you to pay for OR support a developer's initiative! 
 
If you choose to support the developer's initiative, you will show the citizens of San Mateo that 
you are supporting or even working with/for the developers and not for the constituents who 
entrusted you to care for our city.  I've heard enough of these arguments made by residents 
over the years and have always questioned their information and said although I don't agree 
72 of 106

--- page 73 ---
with many of the decisions made by this council, I don't believe you are paid off by unions and 
developers.  Please don't prove me wrong on this point. 
 
Finally, once the citizens Measure was confirmed to be placed on the ballot, you immediately took 
the public stance to oppose the Meausre claiming that it stifled the general plan process.  If you 
put this measure on the ballot, will you be making the same public claim? 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Barbara Niss 
Sunnybrae 
 
73 of 106

--- page 74 ---
From: Michael Weinhauer <  
Sent: Sunday, June 14, 2020 7:37 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SMRG Statement re: 6/15/2020 Special Meeting Agenda Item #2 
 
June 14, 2020 
 
 
SUBJECT: City Council Study Session, June 15, 2020, Agenda Item #2,  
November 3, 2020 General Municipal Election – Calling the Election and Placing a City Council 
Proposition on the Ballot 
 
Members of the City Council: 
 
San Mateans for Responsive Government -SMRG- respectfully comes before you as active 
community members and, in some cases friends, while recognizing that we sometimes differ on 
specific city policies. But we have always played by the rules and strongly believe in our democratic 
rights to hold our elected officials accountable to the voters they serve. Sadly, we make our statement 
tonight, not in the hope of influencing the discussion. We know a done deal when we see one. But we 
believe the public is entitled to hear us, and understand just what is happening here. We believe that 
agreeing to do what you are being asked tonight is just wrong. This is an ethical line that should not 
be crossed; yet it provides a clear example of how much money talks in politics. 
 
Asking the Council to do what this developer/real estate sponsored group couldn't do for themselves 
(and what you refused to do for the Measure P supporters) is a case study of why Measures H and P 
were written and approved twice by the residents and voters of San Mateo. What kind of trust are 
your constituents who spent countless hours and effort to collect signatures and the 7000+ voters 
who signed the petitions supposed to have when they followed the rules, yet at the last minute the 
Council decides to put on a competing measure. It is not fair. It is wrong. But clearly, money talks. 
     
The Council has assured us that they will not change any existing General Plan policies until the new 
General Plan is adopted and implemented. Even the pre-Covid 19 General Plan timeline indicated 
that it is unlikely to be completed prior to 2023-24. If the proponents of this competing measure want 
to replace Measure P, which is part of the existing General Plan, let them do the hard work to place 
their measure on the ballot in 2022. As the Council has said, nothing will have changed by then. 
There is no compelling reason for this competing measure to be placed on the ballot at this time. 
Unless, of course, money talks.  
 
Let's look at why this measure is being proposed before the General Plan process is completed. The 
Measure P extension is an insurance policy for the community that changes will not be made to the 
existing General Plan until the update is complete, just as the Council has promised. While the 
Measure P extension merely continues the General Plan status quo, the competing 
measure proposes significant changes to the existing General Plan. This opens the door for large 
property owners and developers to bring forward projects as soon as Measure P expires.  
 
The three people who are asking the Council to take this unprecedented action represent the most 
pro-development interests in San Mateo: Nicole Fernandez-Chair of the San Mateo County 
Democratic Central Committee; Rich Hedges-long time union representative; and Alan Talansky-
74 of 106

--- page 75 ---
developer of Station Park Green and Executive VP of Development for EBL&S responsible for 
acquiring and entitling developments, business strategy and new investment opportunities for his 
employer. 
 
Who is really behind the measure these three proponents are asking you to put on the ballot and why 
isn't this affiliation clearly identified?  According to the FPPC legal filing, the measure "San Mateans 
for Neighborhood Protection & Affordable Housing" is sponsored by Robert L. Webster & Affiliated 
Entities, including the David D. Bohannon Organization. The Bohannon Company, owners of Hillsdale 
Mall and adjacent properties, has already contributed $200,000 to pass this measure.  Should we be 
surprised?  Money talks. 
 
In closing, let's be clear about the political spin that surrounds this issue. The extension of Measure P 
will not short-circuit the City’s proposed General Plan process. Since P is already part of the General 
Plan, it provides the baseline development standards with which new ideas and proposals can be 
compared. Once a revised General Plan is finalized, even if Measure P is extended, it can be, and 
should be, presented to the voters for approval. Nothing is locked in that can't be changed by a vote 
of the people.  
 
With issues this big and this important to the residents of San Mateo, a vote of the people is the best 
way to confirm that the future revisions to the General Plan have the support of the community. And 
the community has the assurance that changes cannot be made without their consent by just 3 votes 
of their elected officials.  San Mateo residents determined many years ago that some development 
decisions cannot be left to just 3 votes of the City Council on any Monday night.  Why?  Because too 
often plans that were approved with much public effort and participation, were changed just because 
a developer wanted even more. Remember, money talks.  
 
Please do not take ownership of this measure and spend up to $200,000 of our taxpayer money to 
place this on November’s ballot. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michael Weinhauer, Spokesperson 
San Mateans for Responsive Government 
 
75 of 106

--- page 76 ---
From: l watanuki <  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 2:21 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: lwatanuki6@gmail.com 
Subject: Item #2 - No on Council's Adoption of Developer/Real Estate Competing Measure 
 
Dear Members of the City Council, 
 
Please do not take ownership of this competing measure and spend up to $200,000 of our 
taxpayers money to place this on November’s ballot.  
  
If the proponents of this competing measure want to replace Measure P, which is part of the 
existing General Plan, let them do the hard work to place their measure on the ballot in 2022.  
 
With issues this big and this important to the residents of San Mateo, a vote of the people is the 
best way to confirm that the future revisions to the General Plan have the support of the 
community.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
76 of 106

--- page 77 ---
From: Bob Whitehair < >  
Sent: Saturday, June 13, 2020 11:05 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City Sponsored Ballot Proposition 
 
Mayor Goethals and Members of the Council 
 
I write to express my support for a ballot measure written by the City Council for the 
2020 ballot, as is being considered at your June 15, 2020 meeting.  
  
I oppose the measure already scheduled for the ballot. That exclusionary housing 
measure, rooted in historic bigotry and shameful discrimination, should be roundly 
defeated in the fall and I hope that happens.  I know that many community members are 
fearful of new development in single family neighborhoods but please know that I too 
am also fearful - that we will not maintain the character of our fantastic, vibrant city, 
the place where my wife and I raised a family. Adopting a measure artificially keeping 
home values high to the detriment of so many people, is just plain wrong and short 
sighted. 
 
The measure already on the ballot places unacceptable height restrictions on the City, 
and it makes completion of your carefully planned and well funded general plan process 
much more difficult and perhaps impossible. 
 
Some have already commented that San Mateo voters should have an option to 
preserve single family neighborhoods, one that does not put the City at risk of litigation, 
one that allows us to proactively address climate change, and most importantly one that 
does not prevent housing for our most vulnerable residents.  I agree.  Please approve 
the proposed ballot measure before you on Monday. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 
 
Robert Whitehair 
San Mateo 
 
77 of 106

--- page 78 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3127
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 15, 2020 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Update – Next Steps
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider the next steps and provide feedback for the General Plan Update process.
BACKGROUND:
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the San Mateo County Health Officer has issued multiple Shelter-In-Place orders since 
early March. The global pandemic has prevented the robust face-to-face community engagement activities planned as part 
of the General Plan Update effort. At the same time, this significant circumstance has provided an opportunity to explore 
new options for a wider range of community members to participate through use of new technologies and tools.  
Additionally, at the May 18, 2020 meeting, the City Council unanimously adopted a Resolution to place the measure to 
Extend Measure P on the ballot while also opposing the proposed extension.  Given the proposed extension of Measure P 
on the November ballot, staff has developed three options for Council consideration on the best way to proceed with the 
General Plan Update process.   
DISCUSSION:
Throughout the General Plan Update (GPU) process, the Council has emphasized the importance of community outreach 
and input in shaping the City’s future. Since the project kick-off in September 2018, there have been dozens of events and 
meetings about the GPU effort to gather community input, and the City has gathered over 3,000 comments in person or 
online. Through these thousands of comments, many in the community have expressed concern that San Mateo currently 
does not provide an adequate range of housing for all income levels, especially affordable housing. The community has 
expressed an interest in understanding the potential pros, cons, and environmental impacts of allowing heights and 
densities that exceed limits set by Measure P, especially in specific areas of the City that are accessible to transit and 
services in order to meet existing and future housing needs.
In response to this input, through summer and fall 2019, the GPU team worked with the community, the General Plan 
Subcommittee (GPS), the Planning Commission, and City Council to identify ten Study Areas where potential land use 
change should be considered and to formulate three land use and transportation alternatives that consider different 
numbers of net new housing units and jobs, as well as different locations and intensities of development, that could occur 
over the next 20 years for each Study Area. These draft alternatives were shared with community members at an open 
house event held on March 3, 2020, and also made available online at www.StriveSanMateo.org.
The draft alternatives show maintaining existing height limits in some areas, but, to reflect the full range of community 
input, two of the three alternatives explore land use designations that would allow buildings with six or more stories in 
limited sites throughout the study areas, particularly near the Caltrain stations.
78 of 106

--- page 79 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The planned next step in the alternatives process was to refine the draft alternatives based on community, General Plan 
Subcommittee, Planning Commission and City Council input; however, these events were paused due to the shelter in 
place orders.  After this input, the GPU team would then evaluate and compare the differing outcomes of these alternative 
scenarios against a set of metrics such as amount of allowed development, overall character, traffic impacts, impacts on 
utilities and public services, public health, environmental sustainability, the City’s fiscal health, and other topics. The GPU 
team would then present the results of the alternatives evaluation to the community and decisionmakers to choose a 
preferred alternative for each study area after considering the relative benefits, trade-offs, and potential impacts of each 
alternative. The preferred alternative would likely be created by mixing and matching different combinations of housing 
and commercial development in each study area. The preferred alternative would become the basis for the updated 
General Plan Land Use Map.
This planned alternatives process has been affected by COVID-19 and the City to consider the best way to proceed in 
consideration of two related but external factors: the Measure P extension on the November 2020 ballot and the legally 
required Housing Element update the City must complete in 2021-22. The potential extension of Measure P will affect how 
heights and densities are regulated in the General Plan. The Housing Element must identify an adequate number of sites to 
accommodate the City’s Regional Housing Need Allocation (RHNA) of housing for all income levels. The City will not receive 
that allocation until winter 2021, but it is likely to be several thousand units. The GPU team had hoped that the overall 
community discussion about a preferred scenario could inform the identification of potential housing sites, but continued 
delays in the General Plan alternatives process could make that alignment challenging. 
Given the above-mentioned challenges, the GPU team has identified three options for discussion on how to move forward:

Option 1 - Resume the Alternatives Creation and Evaluation Process.
As soon as Council approves the updated outreach plan scheduled for the July 20th Council meeting, the GPU team 
would resume the full alternatives process as originally planned; but shift to virtual events and meetings to gather 
community and decision-maker feedback.  
Con: This results in an approximate four-month delay in the GPU project timeline. Additionally, the alternatives 
evaluation would not be completed in the fall and would not be available to inform the electorate prior to the 
November 2020 election. 
Pro: This option aligns with the Council’s direction to date to pause the GPU due to COVID-19 and resume by 
focusing on robust community engagement with updated safety protocols. 

Option 2: Expedite the Alternatives Creation and Evaluation Process. 
This option would skip the community workshops, General Plan Subcommittee, and Planning Commission input 
and present the three draft alternatives to Council for acceptance at the next Council meeting and move forward 
with the alternatives evaluation after refining the alternatives to reflect any Council comments. The three draft 
alternatives have been developed based on months of robust community engagement and thousands of 
comments from the public. The feedback received at the March 3 open house that presented the three draft 
alternatives, and the results of the community survey presented to the Council on May 18, confirm that the three 
draft alternatives accurately represent the broad range of views in the community about possible future 
development. It is important to understand that we would be asking Council whether these are the right range of 
three alternatives to study, not asking Council to choose among the alternatives. The next step would be the 
alternatives evaluation, which will study all three draft alternatives and explain their differing impacts and 
tradeoffs in order to inform future discussions to create a preferred scenario. 
Con: This option would skip an additional three planned community open houses, a General Plan Subcommittee 
meeting, and a Planning Commission meeting to provide additional input on the range of alternatives for study. 
Additionally, the City could spend time and resources on evaluating alternatives that may be invalidated 
79 of 106

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
depending upon the results of the November 2020 election. 
Pro: This option would enable the alternatives evaluation and leave open the possibility that the evaluation will be 
published in the fall and available to the electorate prior to the November 2020 election. In addition, the preferred 
scenario will better align with the current Housing Element deadlines set by the State. 

Option 3 (Staff Recommendation) - Pause the Alternatives Creation and Evaluation Process.
With this option, the GPU team would pause work related to land use and circulation alternatives until after the 
November 2020 election. Following the election, the team would revisit the range of alternatives, and create new 
or revise the draft alternatives as needed, to reflect the outcome of the election.  Until November, the GPU team 
will shift resources to data collection, policy work, and other tasks that are not dependent on community input or 
the final components of the preferred alternative, such as policy options for new topics required by State 
legislation. 
Con: No alternatives evaluation will be available prior to the election, and the required inventory of available sites 
for the Housing Element would need to proceed in advance of the preferred scenario. 
Pro: The City would save on time, money, and resources by not conducting technical evaluation of alternatives 
that may be invalidated depending upon results of the election.
NEXT STEPS:
The GPU team is seeking Council feedback on the above options and direction for moving forward.
Staff intends to bring forward a contract amendment to the next Council meeting with a revised outreach plan that 
includes expanded online engagement and increased support from Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center (PCRC) to ensure 
that we increase representation from San Mateo’s underserved communities through virtual outreach. The principles and 
approaches in the outreach plan can be applied to any of the above-mentioned options. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The costs for updating the General Plan is covered by the General Plan Maintenance Fund (Fund 25). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is an informational meeting and discussion that is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner 
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216 
Kohar Kojayan, Director Community Development 
kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207
80 of 106

--- page 81 ---
From: Linda Tolosano < > 
Sent: Wednesday, June 10, 2020 12:22 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Who do you work for?
Who do you work for?
Does San Mateo City Council truly represent San Mateo residents? The article below brings up valid points 
that I hope causes City Council Members to reflect on their responsibilities to the residents of our community, 
and not special interest groups who do not live here.
San Mateo Ballot Initiatives
Any initiative slotted for the November 2020 ballot needs to go through the process of gathering the required 
signatures (i.e. extending Measure P). It is not fair that a competing initiative should be considered that has 
not gone through the same process. The reason for signature gathering is to express public support for an 
initiative. If there are competing initiatives, they should be on a level playing field.
Whose general plan is this anyway?
By Keith Weber
Eighteen months ago, before coronavirus paused San Mateo’s general plan update, the community was 
promised an extensive and “robust” public process. One that would be transparent, inclusive, and where the 
concerns and input from all residents would be heard. Outreach efforts were broadened to include those who 
may not have participated in planning efforts before. Now is a good time to look back and assess where we are. 
Of the more than 250 public comments posted on the city’s Strive San Mateo website, there are indeed many 
from concerned San Mateo residents. Reading through the comments, it becomes apparent that there are both 
pro-growth and measured-growth proponents among the local residents. This is as it should be. Differences of 
opinion can result in a productive debate and hopefully reconciliation. 
But there are also a significant number of comments from people who reside in other cities. These out-of-
towners are regular participants in the general plan meetings, workshops and online. They include paid 
YIMBYs from San Francisco; paid lobbyists and organizers who live in Oakland, Palo Alto and San Bruno; paid 
attorneys from San Francisco and consultants from Berkeley; activists from San Carlos, Belmont, Burlingame, 
East Palo Alto, Foster City and Woodside. These voices are exclusively very pro-development. It seems fair to 
ask, why in the world would the city of San Mateo put comments from residents of Oakland or Belmont on 
equal footing with those of San Mateo residents? After all, this is San Mateo’s general plan, isn’t it? Affording 
residents of other cities the same level of influence as local residents has a way of tilting the scales and unfairly 
influencing the process.
San Mateo has traditionally been very attentive to including its residents in public policy decisions. Community 
advisory committees were the preferred form of engaging residents when the general plan needed revision, to 
generate a plan for a new transit center, and many other civic projects. Residents were brought into the 
81 of 106

--- page 82 ---
conversation early, given a seat at the table and made valuable contributions. That all changed in the early 
months of 2015.
Real estate development interests convinced City Hall that there needed to be big changes in land use, warning 
that the community might not agree. Some at City Hall began to dream of grand-scale redevelopment. 
Neighborhood charm and small-town character were suddenly considered dispensable. Community advisory 
committees were shelved. Those who pushed for “higher and denser” were courted, regardless of their city of 
residence. In some influential circles it seemed, San Mateo residents were regarded as more of an impediment 
than an asset.  
It is in this political context that the general plan revision is taking place. But, not to worry, residents are still 
included in the process. It wouldn’t look good otherwise. But local residents’ input is now heavily diluted by 
growth lobbyists and paid operatives from all parts of the Bay Area. I suppose it’s one way to define broad and 
inclusive outreach — bring the foxes into the chicken coop and watch the feathers fly.
San Mateo residents entered into the general plan revision process in good faith. We engaged in the 
conversation believing it would be the inclusive and fair exchange of ideas between San Mateans about the 
future of San Mateo. Apparently we were wrong.
We all agree that there’s a dire need for more affordable housing at all income levels. But the manner in which 
housing and other matters are responsibly addressed in San Mateo is up to San Mateans, not residents of other 
communities. I for one, am very happy to live with the outcome of a fair and open discussion about height, 
density and land use in San Mateo, whether or not I agree with that outcome. As long as it is the result of broad 
participation of local residents and not of those with singular agendas who live elsewhere.  
So when the process eventually resumes, the question becomes whose interests is this general plan update 
intended to serve? If the outsized influence of special interest organizations and paid operatives living in other 
cities is permitted to continue, the promised “robust” general plan update process will turn out to be a ruse, 
giving us the best general plan money can buy.
As the November election nears, there is ample opportunity for members of the City Council to step up and 
show leadership — to take active steps to prioritize the concerns, interests and viewpoints of San Mateo 
residents — and backbench the out-of-towners. After all, whose general plan is this anyway?
Keith Weber is a participant in San Mateo’s general plan update. He has made San Mateo his home for 37 
years.
Linda Tolosano
San Mateo, CA
82 of 106

--- page 83 ---
6/12/20 
 
Honorable Mayor Joe Goethals and City Council members: 
 
Re: General Planning Study Session on 6/15/2020 
 
The City of San Mateo, thru the City Councils direction, has determined that its General Plan Update will 
exclude all R1 designated neighborhoods from the study, approximately 75% of the cities land mass. The 
R1 zoning designation has been widely accepted as one of the numerous governmental tools that were 
implemented to restrict all nonwhites from buying homes in them. Excluding the R1 neighborhoods from 
the update is an implicit continuation of exclusionary housing policies that have devastating social 
economic, health, education and safety issues for all the residents in San Mateo.  
 
Not only is this extension of an exclusionary housing policy inherently wrong it is also in direct conflict 
with California’s guidelines on what must be included in a General Plan Update. Per the State of California 
Office of Planning and Research: Every city and county must adopt “a comprehensive, long–term general 
plan” (Gov. Code § 65300). The general plan must cover a local jurisdiction’s entire planning area and 
address the broad range of issues associated with a city’s or county’s development. The overall general 
plan may also include linkages to regional plans, incorporating, where appropriate, regional policy and 
context. 
 
The city’s General Plan Vision Statement is: San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy 
community that respects the quality of its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to 
equity, and is a leader in environmental sustainability.  
 
These lofty goals are unattainable if 75% of the city is excluded from the study. You cannot continue to 
support exclusionary housing policies and attain any sense of equality in our city, it is either one or the 
other. If you continue to support the R1 zoning as a valid policy, then the General Plan Update is 
essentially an exercise in futility.  
 
Our current gaping scars of inequality have been laid bare for all to see thru the unequal devastation of 
the COVID 19 pandemic on people of color and the continued tragic deaths of black citizens at the hands 
of the state apparatus.  
 
Leaving the R1 neighborhoods intact in our city would leave a lasting monument to blatant racism 
unmitigated. A simple review of the history of land use in our area reveals that the R1 neighborhoods 
were created to exclude people of different races and ethnicities through written codicils in deeds and 
other landholding documents. The ill effects of this racist exclusion are the main contribution to wealth 
disparity and social injustice that negatively impacts all inhabitants of San Mateo.  
 
There is no need to have exclusionary deeds today as the simple cost of living in those areas has become 
the new barrier, essentially a gated community without any physical gates. The only way the barriers can 
be lowered is through alternative uses in the R1 neighborhoods that would provide for the construction 
of more affordable housing allowing full integration of all peoples throughout the city. 
 
I keep hearing everyone asking what they can do to help correct the unequal status of so many oppressed 
members of our country. There are numerous issues from mass incarceration, health care inequities, 
educational resources and of course secure housing that need cohesive country wide actions. 
83 of 106

--- page 84 ---
What we can do here in our own back yard is to take down the barriers of inequality under our own 
control. Eliminating the R1 designation citywide and in turn opening the established neighborhoods for 
all to enjoy is the most important step we can make. This action is the most significant one to get us to not 
only meet the state mandated guidelines for the General Plan Update, yet it is the one clear path to 
meeting our Vision Statement of equality for all.  
 
You the city council have the greatest chance to make meaningful policy advances to start the process of 
fully integrating our city. I have heard and read many statements by you the current council members on 
how important it is to alleviate the scorn of racism in our city.  Sharing with the previously excluded 
members of our community the profound wealth and security allocated to those of us born with the 
rights to enjoy the full breadth of this wonderful city is a goal that has no equal in helping us move 
towards  a more equitable and just community.  
 
Thank you 
 
John Ebneter  
84 of 106

--- page 85 ---
Please submit the following questions/comments to the City Council members for the June 
15th City Council meeting. 
 
Thank you. 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
At the June 1st City Council meeting, Mayor Goethals noted that he had received a 
letter from the campaign committee funded by Bohannon Development to oppose the 
San Mateans for Responsive Government (SMRG) ballot initiative to extend Measure 
P.   
 
So far, Bohannon Development has poured $200,000 into their new committee. They 
wrote their own measure to be placed on the ballot against the citizens group, SMRG, 
who had in early 2018 collected more than 7,000 signatures in support of their effort 
to extend Measure P.  Bohannon’s campaign group attempted to collect signatures to 
get their measure on the ballot, but only collected a fraction of what was required. 
  
When Goethals hosted his April virtual Town Hall, he was quite interested in helping 
the Bohannon group to make it to the ballot, no matter what.  So now, he’s proposed to 
Council that this alternate measure be discussed at a Study Session on June 15th – 
and all of you have agreed to do so.  
 
Why would the Council now consider ‘helping’ Bohannon’s committee by placing 
their  opposition measure on the ballot after the Bohannon campaign committee failed 
to collect the necessary petition signatures?  San Mateo residents, in contrast, were 
refused this option by the Council in 2018, and did what was required completely on 
our own. 
  
The Council also recently took a public stance to oppose the San Mateans ballot 
measure, stating it ‘stifled’ the new General Plan process. But if that is your viewpoint, 
why would you then consider placing this other measure on the ballot?  
 
Also a significant number of comments on the City’s General Plan come from people 
who reside in other cities. These out-of-towners are regular participants in the general 
plan meetings, workshops and online. They include paid YIMBYs from San Francisco; 
paid lobbyists and organizers who live in Oakland, Palo Alto and San Bruno; paid 
attorneys from San Francisco and consultants from Berkeley; activists from San 
Carlos, Belmont, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City and Woodside.  
These voices are exclusively very pro-development. It seems fair to ask, why would the 
city of San Mateo put comments from residents of Oakland or Belmont on equal footing 
with those of San Mateo residents in drawing up the General Plan? After all, this is San 
85 of 106

--- page 86 ---
Mateo’s general plan, isn’t it? Affording residents of other cities the same level of 
influence as local residents has a way of tilting the scales and unfairly influencing the 
process. 
Laurence Kinsella 
San Mateo, CA 
 
86 of 106

--- page 87 ---
City Council Meeting
2040 General Plan – Next Steps
June 15, 2020
87 of 106

--- page 88 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Vision Statement
88 of 106

--- page 89 ---
3
StriveSanMateo.org
Background
» Shelter in place currently 
prevents large public 
gatherings 
» Increasing representation 
from underserved 
communities remains a 
priority
89 of 106

--- page 90 ---
4
StriveSanMateo.org
Project Status
» Thousands of comments collected since fall 2018
» Three draft alternatives created based on community input 
online and in person 
» One Open House to share draft alternatives, March 3, 2020
» Pre-Covid plan: refine three alternatives with public input, 
evaluate and compare pros and cons of each alternative, 
create a Preferred Alternative with public input  
90 of 106

--- page 91 ---
5
StriveSanMateo.org
Complicating Factors
» COVID-19 and public health orders limit face-to-face 
community engagement. 
» Measure P extension on ballot could affect the range of 
feasible alternatives. 
» Ideally, the Preferred Alternative should drive the Housing 
Element, not vice versa. 
91 of 106

--- page 92 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan – Next Step Options 
1. Resume the alternatives creation and evaluation 
process as soon as Council approves the updated 
outreach plan. 
2. Expedite the alternatives creation and evaluation 
process.
3. Pause the alternatives creation and evaluation 
process until after the November 2020 election. (Staff 
Recommendation)
92 of 106

--- page 93 ---
STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040

www. striveSanMateo.org

SAN
A "ao.
ASPs
ae

4
Oy = &

Comoe”


--- page 94 ---
The following are backup slides in case 
the Council would like more detail on 
the alternatives process
94 of 106

--- page 95 ---
9
StriveSanMateo.org
Option 1: Resume Alternatives Process as Planned
» Cons:
• Delays process by four months. 
• Alternatives evaluation not available prior to November 2020 election. 
» Pro: 
• Aligns with Council direction to:
▪Pause the GPU due to COVID-19.
▪Resume robust community engagement with updated protocols.
95 of 106

--- page 96 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
Option 2: Expedite Alternatives Process
» Con: 
• Skips planned meetings to gather more input on the range of alternatives:
▪Three community open houses
▪General Plan Subcommittee meeting
▪Planning Commission meeting
• City could expend resources studying alternatives that may be 
invalidated by election results.
» Pros: 
• Team can move quickly into the alternatives evaluation.
• Evaluation could be available prior to November 2020 election. 
• Preferred scenario will better align with Housing Element deadlines. 
96 of 106

--- page 97 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
Option 3 (Staff Rec): Pause Alternatives Process
» Cons: 
•
No alternatives evaluation available prior to November 2020 election.
•
Housing Element available sites inventory would need to proceed in 
advance of the preferred scenario. 
» Pro: 
•
City saves time and resources by waiting to study alternatives that would 
be informed by the November 2020 election results.
97 of 106

--- page 98 ---
General Plan Update and 
Land Use Alternatives Process 
98 of 106

--- page 99 ---
13
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Where are we? 
99 of 106

--- page 100 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Land Use Map
Map and designations determine: 
» What can be built
» Where
» At what intensity
100 of 106

--- page 101 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Alternatives Process
1. Choose study areas
2. Explore a range of alternatives
3. Finalize up to three alternatives
4. Evaluate and compare alternatives
5. Select a preferred alternative for further study
6. Refine the preferred alternative to become the updated 
Land Use map
We are here
101 of 106

--- page 102 ---
16
StriveSanMateo.org
Alternatives Evaluation 
» Alternatives evaluation will consider:
• Amount of development that would be allowed
• Overall character
• Traffic impacts
• Public health and impacts to vulnerable communities
• Impacts on utilities and public services
• Environmental sustainability
• City’s fiscal health
• Potential community benefits
• Development feasibility
• Applicable State laws/regulations
» No decisions on a preferred land use scenario will be made until 
evaluation is complete and shared with community
102 of 106

--- page 103 ---
6/12/20 
 
Honorable Mayor Joe Goethals and City Council members: 
 
Re: General Planning Study Session on 6/15/2020 
 
The City of San Mateo, thru the City Councils direction, has determined that its General Plan Update will 
exclude all R1 designated neighborhoods from the study, approximately 75% of the cities land mass. The 
R1 zoning designation has been widely accepted as one of the numerous governmental tools that were 
implemented to restrict all nonwhites from buying homes in them. Excluding the R1 neighborhoods from 
the update is an implicit continuation of exclusionary housing policies that have devastating social 
economic, health, education and safety issues for all the residents in San Mateo.  
 
Not only is this extension of an exclusionary housing policy inherently wrong it is also in direct conflict 
with California’s guidelines on what must be included in a General Plan Update. Per the State of California 
Office of Planning and Research: Every city and county must adopt “a comprehensive, long–term general 
plan” (Gov. Code § 65300). The general plan must cover a local jurisdiction’s entire planning area and 
address the broad range of issues associated with a city’s or county’s development. The overall general 
plan may also include linkages to regional plans, incorporating, where appropriate, regional policy and 
context. 
 
The city’s General Plan Vision Statement is: San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy 
community that respects the quality of its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to 
equity, and is a leader in environmental sustainability.  
 
These lofty goals are unattainable if 75% of the city is excluded from the study. You cannot continue to 
support exclusionary housing policies and attain any sense of equality in our city, it is either one or the 
other. If you continue to support the R1 zoning as a valid policy, then the General Plan Update is 
essentially an exercise in futility.  
 
Our current gaping scars of inequality have been laid bare for all to see thru the unequal devastation of 
the COVID 19 pandemic on people of color and the continued tragic deaths of black citizens at the hands 
of the state apparatus.  
 
Leaving the R1 neighborhoods intact in our city would leave a lasting monument to blatant racism 
unmitigated. A simple review of the history of land use in our area reveals that the R1 neighborhoods 
were created to exclude people of different races and ethnicities through written codicils in deeds and 
other landholding documents. The ill effects of this racist exclusion are the main contribution to wealth 
disparity and social injustice that negatively impacts all inhabitants of San Mateo.  
 
There is no need to have exclusionary deeds today as the simple cost of living in those areas has become 
the new barrier, essentially a gated community without any physical gates. The only way the barriers can 
be lowered is through alternative uses in the R1 neighborhoods that would provide for the construction 
of more affordable housing allowing full integration of all peoples throughout the city. 
 
I keep hearing everyone asking what they can do to help correct the unequal status of so many oppressed 
members of our country. There are numerous issues from mass incarceration, health care inequities, 
educational resources and of course secure housing that need cohesive country wide actions. 
103 of 106

--- page 104 ---
What we can do here in our own back yard is to take down the barriers of inequality under our own 
control. Eliminating the R1 designation citywide and in turn opening the established neighborhoods for 
all to enjoy is the most important step we can make. This action is the most significant one to get us to not 
only meet the state mandated guidelines for the General Plan Update, yet it is the one clear path to 
meeting our Vision Statement of equality for all.  
 
You the city council have the greatest chance to make meaningful policy advances to start the process of 
fully integrating our city. I have heard and read many statements by you the current council members on 
how important it is to alleviate the scorn of racism in our city.  Sharing with the previously excluded 
members of our community the profound wealth and security allocated to those of us born with the 
rights to enjoy the full breadth of this wonderful city is a goal that has no equal in helping us move 
towards  a more equitable and just community.  
 
Thank you 
 
John Ebneter  
104 of 106

--- page 105 ---
Please submit the following questions/comments to the City Council members for the June 
15th City Council meeting. 
 
Thank you. 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
At the June 1st City Council meeting, Mayor Goethals noted that he had received a 
letter from the campaign committee funded by Bohannon Development to oppose the 
San Mateans for Responsive Government (SMRG) ballot initiative to extend Measure 
P.   
 
So far, Bohannon Development has poured $200,000 into their new committee. They 
wrote their own measure to be placed on the ballot against the citizens group, SMRG, 
who had in early 2018 collected more than 7,000 signatures in support of their effort 
to extend Measure P.  Bohannon’s campaign group attempted to collect signatures to 
get their measure on the ballot, but only collected a fraction of what was required. 
  
When Goethals hosted his April virtual Town Hall, he was quite interested in helping 
the Bohannon group to make it to the ballot, no matter what.  So now, he’s proposed to 
Council that this alternate measure be discussed at a Study Session on June 15th – 
and all of you have agreed to do so.  
 
Why would the Council now consider ‘helping’ Bohannon’s committee by placing 
their  opposition measure on the ballot after the Bohannon campaign committee failed 
to collect the necessary petition signatures?  San Mateo residents, in contrast, were 
refused this option by the Council in 2018, and did what was required completely on 
our own. 
  
The Council also recently took a public stance to oppose the San Mateans ballot 
measure, stating it ‘stifled’ the new General Plan process. But if that is your viewpoint, 
why would you then consider placing this other measure on the ballot?  
 
Also a significant number of comments on the City’s General Plan come from people 
who reside in other cities. These out-of-towners are regular participants in the general 
plan meetings, workshops and online. They include paid YIMBYs from San Francisco; 
paid lobbyists and organizers who live in Oakland, Palo Alto and San Bruno; paid 
attorneys from San Francisco and consultants from Berkeley; activists from San 
Carlos, Belmont, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City and Woodside.  
These voices are exclusively very pro-development. It seems fair to ask, why would the 
city of San Mateo put comments from residents of Oakland or Belmont on equal footing 
with those of San Mateo residents in drawing up the General Plan? After all, this is San 
105 of 106

--- page 106 ---
Mateo’s general plan, isn’t it? Affording residents of other cities the same level of 
influence as local residents has a way of tilting the scales and unfairly influencing the 
process. 
Laurence Kinsella 
San Mateo, CA 
 
106 of 106