source: packet.pdf
sha256: 97753406f7ad0dd0e8dac5b48d15e3f29059be16c944fc236802a7086e4df74e
pages: 4
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
June 21, 2021
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here:June 21, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 812 8365 7753
Passcode: 508629
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Citywide Traffic Management Update
Receive an informational presentation on the Citywide Traffic Management plan.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
2.
Conference with Real Property Negotiators (Gov. Code Section 54956.8)
Property: Public parking lots located at 4th Avenue and Railroad Avenue and at 308 5th Avenue
Agency negotiator: Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager and Sandra Council, Housing Manager
Negotiating parties: Prometheus/Harvest Properties/Alta Housing, MidPen Housing, Mercy Housing
Under negotiation: Price and terms associated with potential disposition of Property
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers’ Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
Name of Case: Joshua Brown
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
continue next page
1 of 4

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 4

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4599
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 21, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Traffic Management Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational presentation on the Citywide Traffic Management plan. 
BACKGROUND:
In response to City Council’s goal of addressing traffic issues around the City, staff has previously presented on the 
development of a Citywide traffic management plan at Council meetings in November 2020 and February 2021.  Staff 
continues to review internal traffic collision data to identify trends, update the traffic collision maps to improve 
transparency, and communicate through the City’s Safe Streets San Mateo platform about traffic safety issues to meet this 
goal.
Traffic Collision Analysis
Based upon Council’s expressed interest in understanding pedestrian-involved collisions in the City, staff analyzed 
pedestrian collision data to identify trends and hot spots within the City. The analysis reviewed citywide data to identify 
trends in pedestrian collisions that can then be used to identify potential improvements that would result in safer 
intersections.  This effort also included correlating pedestrian collisions at intersections to various roadway characteristics, 
such as the type of intersection control and roadway classification. The identified improvements can then be considered 
for implementation at similar intersections Citywide regardless of whether there is available collision data for an 
intersection. 
In addition to the above analysis, staff also identified intersections with the greatest number of pedestrian collisions in the 
City and reviewed similarities between the collisions at these locations. Short-term improvements, such as striping and 
signal timing changes, and long-term improvements, such as traffic signal modifications and median improvements, are 
proposed at these locations and will be discussed in the presentation. 
The City is also developing a Local Roadway Safety Plan, for which the City has received State grant funding, that will also 
expand on current efforts to analyze and identify traffic safety problems and recommend traffic safety improvements. This 
plan will analyze all collision types in the City, identify areas for prioritization, and propose data-driven recommendations 
for improvements and is anticipated to be complete by Fall 2022. 
Public Outreach and Communications
Transparency and communications efforts have also continued since the previous meetings with City Council. The collision 
maps were updated to include additional data, including two years of data, as well as a map showing bicycle and 
3 of 4

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
pedestrian collisions. Additionally, the City’s robust communication efforts focused on pedestrian safety during the last 
few months have reached thousands of residents and business owners. The effort included numerous posts through the 
Safe Streets San Mateo brand, customized messages through Recology bills, a Real Talk San Mateo episode that focused on 
traffic and parking, and a well-exposed pedestrian safety enforcement operation. Staff will discuss the details of these 
efforts during the presentation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact with this informational presentation. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
4 of 4