Austin pauses proposal to use AI to crack down on crime at parks | KUT Radio, Austin's NPR Station Skip to main content Search Query Show Search News Austin Austin Signal Crime & Justice Education En Español Energy & Environment Field Guide to Austin Health Housing I-35 Expansion Politics Texas Transportation Austin Austin Signal Crime & Justice Education En Español Energy & Environment Field Guide to Austin Health Housing I-35 Expansion Politics Texas Transportation Austin Signal Arts Art Beat Arts Eclectic ATXplained Austin Cultura Community In Black America Pause/Play This Is My Thing Art Beat Arts Eclectic ATXplained Austin Cultura Community In Black America Pause/Play This Is My Thing Podcasts 24 Hours in Austin ATXplained Austin Signal Black Austin Matters The Disconnect Growth Machine In Black America KUT News Now Money Talk with Carl Stuart Pause/Play Tacos of Texas Texas Standard This Is My Thing Two Guys on Your Head ¡Vamos Verde! 24 Hours in Austin ATXplained Austin Signal Black Austin Matters The Disconnect Growth Machine In Black America KUT News Now Money Talk with Carl Stuart Pause/Play Tacos of Texas Texas Standard This Is My Thing Two Guys on Your Head ¡Vamos Verde! Support KUT Become a Member Business Circle Car Donation Get Involved Leadership Circle Member Login Planned Giving Program Sponsorships Sustaining Members Thank You Gifts Volunteer Become a Member Business Circle Car Donation Get Involved Leadership Circle Member Login Planned Giving Program Sponsorships Sustaining Members Thank You Gifts Volunteer About About KUT Around The Station Awards Contact / Directions CPB Funding Overview Get Involved Giveaways How To Listen Jobs Station Events Newsletters News Releases Newsroom And On-Air Staff Mobile Guide Smart Speakers About KUT Around The Station Awards Contact / Directions CPB Funding Overview Get Involved Giveaways How To Listen Jobs Station Events Newsletters News Releases Newsroom And On-Air Staff Mobile Guide Smart Speakers Schedule KUT Radio Schedule BBC on HD2 Schedule KUT Radio Schedule BBC on HD2 Schedule Newsletters Texas Standard KUTX Music KUTX KUTX Videos KUTX KUTX Videos © 2026 KUT Public Media A service of the Moody College of Communication at the University of Texas at Austin webmaster@kutx.org Menu Show Search Search Query Donate Play Live Radio Next Up: 0:00 0:00 0:00 0:00 Available On Air Stations On Air Now Playing KUT 90.5 FM On Air Now Playing BBC World News | KUT HD2 On Air Now Playing KUTX 98.9 FM On Air Now Playing Austin Music Experience | All Austin musicians and artists | KUTX HD2 On Air Now Playing Texas Music Experience | Listen anytime at tmx.fm | KUTX HD3 All Streams News Austin Austin Signal Crime & Justice Education En Español Energy & Environment Field Guide to Austin Health Housing I-35 Expansion Politics Texas Transportation Austin Austin Signal Crime & Justice Education En Español Energy & Environment Field Guide to Austin Health Housing I-35 Expansion Politics Texas Transportation Austin Signal Arts Art Beat Arts Eclectic ATXplained Austin Cultura Community In Black America Pause/Play This Is My Thing Art Beat Arts Eclectic ATXplained Austin Cultura Community In Black America Pause/Play This Is My Thing Podcasts 24 Hours in Austin ATXplained Austin Signal Black Austin Matters The Disconnect Growth Machine In Black America KUT News Now Money Talk with Carl Stuart Pause/Play Tacos of Texas Texas Standard This Is My Thing Two Guys on Your Head ¡Vamos Verde! 24 Hours in Austin ATXplained Austin Signal Black Austin Matters The Disconnect Growth Machine In Black America KUT News Now Money Talk with Carl Stuart Pause/Play Tacos of Texas Texas Standard This Is My Thing Two Guys on Your Head ¡Vamos Verde! Support KUT Become a Member Business Circle Car Donation Get Involved Leadership Circle Member Login Planned Giving Program Sponsorships Sustaining Members Thank You Gifts Volunteer Become a Member Business Circle Car Donation Get Involved Leadership Circle Member Login Planned Giving Program Sponsorships Sustaining Members Thank You Gifts Volunteer About About KUT Around The Station Awards Contact / Directions CPB Funding Overview Get Involved Giveaways How To Listen Jobs Station Events Newsletters News Releases Newsroom And On-Air Staff Mobile Guide Smart Speakers About KUT Around The Station Awards Contact / Directions CPB Funding Overview Get Involved Giveaways How To Listen Jobs Station Events Newsletters News Releases Newsroom And On-Air Staff Mobile Guide Smart Speakers Schedule KUT Radio Schedule BBC on HD2 Schedule KUT Radio Schedule BBC on HD2 Schedule Newsletters Texas Standard KUTX Music KUTX KUTX Videos KUTX KUTX Videos Austin Austin drops AI surveillance cameras from consideration as residents raise privacy concerns KUT 90.5 | By Luz Moreno-Lozano Published September 25, 2025 at 10:21 AM CDT Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Michael Minasi / KUT News The city of Austin is trying to reduce the number of car break-ins and other crimes at parks. The city of Austin is no longer considering using artificial intelligence to help catch people breaking into cars and committing other crimes at parks and greenbelts, at least for the time being. Dozens of incidents, including car break-ins and stolen valuables, are reported at popular green spaces each year. Earlier this year, the city stepped up security measures , increasing police patrols and installing security cameras. Austin police in March also arrested 12 people in connection with car break-ins at public parks. City officials were considering expanding the program through a $2 million contract with Utah-based LiveView Technologies, a security company that uses an artificial intelligence system to "analyze behavior” in camera footage, detecting potential crime. The Austin City Council was slated to vote on the contract in August, but city staff withdrew it from consideration just days before the meeting. The move came not long after the city ended its automatic license plate reader program over data privacy concerns. Several residents, like Mackenzie Rhine, have expressed concern about how AI-enabled cameras track, store and share data. “[This technology] opens the door to the potential for a lot of abuse by both law enforcement and bad-faith actors who may have access to this data, because the only secure data is data that doesn't exist," Rhine said. "You can never guarantee against hackers or people having access when they're not supposed to....” Steve Lindsey, co-founder and chief information and technology officer of LiveView Technologies, said the company's system does not use facial recognition, but it is programmed to detect abnormal behavior, like someone going from car to car pulling on door handles. “It is looking for activities that a normal person would not do, and typically, somebody who is up to no good typically would do something like that,” Lindsey said. If a camera flags something suspicious, it gives a verbal warning to the person in the footage and alerts police if necessary. Lindsey said about 70% of the time, the initial warning will deter the person before police intervention is necessary. “What we are trying to do is be a force multiplier for police who have scarce resources so they can focus on the high priority calls …," he said. "Most people, when they hear that alert, they will go away.” In the event police are called, the company sends them an alert with a video clip, and it's up to law enforcement to decide how to respond and store that information. It is not clear if the contract with LiveView Technologies will come back before the Austin City Council. Tags Austin Austin City Council City Of Austin KUT Parks Trending Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Luz Moreno-Lozano Luz Moreno-Lozano is the Austin City Hall reporter at KUT. Got a tip? Email her at lmorenolozano@kut.org . Follow her on X @LuzMorenoLozano . See stories by Luz Moreno-Lozano Latest Stories Education Austin ISD student is detained by ICE weeks before graduating Art Beat City of Austin and public arts community clash over millions in funding Austin Austin to explore alternative to IT consolidation after employee, council pushback Crime & Justice Austin spends millions on outside attorneys to handle lawsuits Related Content Austin Fines for parking violations in Austin will increase starting Saturday Luz Moreno-Lozano The standard fine for an expired or unpaid meter is going up to $75 – more than double the current cost. Austin Austin just made it illegal to park in bike lanes Luz Moreno-Lozano Thursday's unanimous vote means violators will be ticketed and fined. Fees could range from $50 to $300. Transportation Austin moves forward with plan for parks over I-35 Nathan Bernier The City Council voted to pay more than $100 million for columns to support parks over the interstate from Cesar Chavez to Seventh Street and 11th to 12th streets. The council also approved two 300-foot-long caps near the Red Line crossing at Airport Boulevard. Austin City-owned land will be repurposed to add 5 new parks in Austin Luz Moreno-Lozano The City Council voted to designate the land as parkland, which allows the city to use park funds for things like expanding trail access and building playgrounds. Austin has a goal of making sure there's a park within a 5-to-10-minute walk of all residents. Crime & Justice 12 people arrested in connection with car break-ins at Austin parks Luz Moreno-Lozano The investigation is ongoing, and police expect additional arrests. Austin Austin City Council puts controversial plan for Zilker Park on hold Luz Moreno-Lozano The plan prompted a huge outcry from some residents who said it would change the look and feel of the beloved park. Austin There could be a giant troll calling Austin's Pease Park home next year Meghan James The Pease Park Conservancy would pay for the sculpture, made out of scrap wood and recycled materials. It's asking the public for feedback. Stay Connected twitter instagram flipboard facebook linkedin © 2026 KUT Public Media A service of the Moody College of Communication at the University of Texas at Austin webmaster@kutx.org ABOUT About Us Newsroom Staff Advisory Board News Releases Jobs & Internships CONNECT Newsletters Events Around the Station Mobile Guide Volunteer Contact Us RESOURCES Schedules How To Listen Smart Speakers Privacy & Terms Annual EEO Report (pdf) CPB Funding FCC Public File SUPPORT US Donate Today Legacy Planning Business Circle Car Donation Sponsorship Opportunities Member Login More