source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4121673f122fa01de7bd3493fd4aa0c8a3747e5a9088272347c714d8748a9bfd
pages: 703
ocr_pages: 73
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
May 10, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
vacant
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 10, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 875 7306 3426
Passcode: 017541
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
1.
1 Hayward Avenue - New Four-Story Mixed-Use Building with Ground-floor Office and 18-unit Multi-Family
Apartment Units (PA-2019-045)

--- page 2 ---
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning
Application (SDPA) for the construction of a new mixed-use building with ground floor office uses and 18 multi-
family residential apartment units located at 1 Hayward Avenue and determine the project qualifies for a
Categorical Exemption from further environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in Attachment 1.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Pre-Application for a Proposed Four-Story Mixed-Use Office and Commercial Building at 31 – 57 S. B Street
(PA-2021-082)
Review the project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the applicant and staff
on the proposed project, with specific focus on the following project elements: Rezoning – Zoning reclassification
request from C1-2/R5 to CBD; Building Design and Massing – Architectural style and transition with surrounding
buildings; Public Right-of-Way Improvements – Proposed sidewalk widths on B Street and First Avenue; and Other
project aspects that should be considered during the formal planning application.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting
and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after
the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel
26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call
(650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the
meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All
attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting
agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
During the meeting in person - Complete a “Request to Speak” form available before the meeting, submit a
request at the speaker kiosk in the Council Chamber,
or scan the QR code posted and fill out the request on your phone.

--- page 3 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special
accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure
accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 22-6074
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 10, 2022 
SUBJECT:
1 Hayward Avenue - New Four-Story Mixed-Use Building with Ground-floor Office and 18-unit Multi-Family Apartment 
Units (PA-2019-045)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) for the construction of a new mixed-use building with ground floor office uses and 18 multi-family residential 
apartment units located at 1 Hayward Avenue and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from 
further environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval 
and as conditioned in Attachment 1.
BACKGROUND:
A formal Planning Application was submitted on October 8, 2019 to demolish three existing structures that contain five 
residential units and approximately 1,115 square-feet of commercial space at 1 Hayward Avenue, and construct a new 
25,320 square-foot four-story mixed-use building with 4,495 square-feet of office use on the ground floor and 18 
residential apartment units above. The proposed development also includes below grade parking facilities, common and 
private open space areas, and other common area amenities. 
A neighborhood meeting was held prior to submittal on September 25, 2019. A Preliminary Application and Planning 
Commission Study Session were not required for this project as the proposed residential development has less than 20 
units and the office area is less than 10,000 square feet.
Site Description
The project site consists of a 0.29-acre (12,820 square-foot) parcel at the corner of Hayward Avenue and El Camino Real. 
The site is currently developed with five residential units and approximately 1,115 square feet of commercial space. The 
project site is adjacent to a four-story residential building for Sunrise Senior Living to the south across Hayward Avenue, a 
three-story residential building to the east, a dental office building to the north, and St. Matthews Catholic School to the 
west across El Camino Real. A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included in Attachment 2.
Project Description
The project consists of a four-story 25,320 square-foot mixed-use building with 4,495 square feet of office uses on the 
ground floor and 18 residential apartment units above. The proposed architectural style is best characterized as 
contemporary based on its use of stucco finish, horizontal cementitious lap siding, steel canopies, metal frame balconies 
with wood guardrails, and metal frame fencing. The proposed units are a mix of junior and standard one-bedrooms 
ranging from 640 to 935 square-feet in size. The project also provides 22 off-street parking spaces in a below-grade garage, 
of which nine would be dedicated to residential use and 13 would be dedicated to office use.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The project proposes 3,260 square-feet of open space at-grade, consisting of two Japanese Maple trees, a variety of shrubs 
and grasses, and various planters. The project also includes a total of 2,550 square-feet of usable open space for outdoor 
living or recreation purposes, of which 900 square-feet is through private balconies and 1,650 square-feet is shared 
common areas on the ground floor concrete pavers and includes patio furniture and community tables with seating. The 
seven private balconies range from 75 to 235 square-feet in size.
The project proposes 18 dwelling units, of which two would be designated as affordable at the very-low-income level and 
six are density bonus units as allowed through the State Density Bonus Law. The project also includes an incentive request 
for a reduction in landscape buffer, as well as five waiver requests related to minimum lot width requirements, increase in 
percentage of compact parking stalls, a reduction in parking ramp standard, a reduction in office parking ratio, and an 
increase in building height. The dwelling units and requested waivers and incentives are discussed in greater detail below 
under State Density Bonus Law.  A full set of the project plans are included in Attachment 3.
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use designation for the project site is Executive Office/High Density Multi-Family. The Mixed-Use 
Incentive land use category, as defined in Appendix B of the General Plan, allows for alternative development standards, 
such as increased floor area, to encourage housing developments ranging from low to high densities for this property. A 
list of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the project’s conformance to them is included in the Resolution 
in Attachment 1.
The project site is zoned E2-1/R4 (Executive Offices/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use). Office and residential uses are 
permitted uses in this zoning district. The R4 overlay provides development standards pertaining to density, floor area 
ratio (FAR), setbacks, and open space for residential projects located in commercial or office zoning districts.
The project conforms to various development standards, including the lot coverage and floor area ratio requirements of 
the City’s Zoning Code, Title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) as well as the State Density Bonus Law. The 
project proposes a FAR of 1.982 where a maximum FAR of 2.0 is allowed. The project site contains approximately 3,260 
square feet of open space (25.4%) where a minimum of 20% is required. The project is requesting one 
incentive/concession and six waivers from additional development standards. Specifically, one of the waivers being 
requested is to allow for a building height of 42 feet and 8 inches, which exceeds the height limit of 40 feet. With the 
approval of the requested incentive/concession and waivers, the project will conform to all applicable development 
standards. A Factual Data Sheet listing the applicable Zoning Code standards and the project’s conformance to them is 
included in Attachment 4.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The project requires SPAR approval for the proposed site and building design, as required by the City’s Zoning Code 
(SMMC 27.08.030). Per the City’s Zoning Code, the Planning Commission shall approve the application if all of the following 
are found to exist:
•
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the neighborhood; 
•
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City; 
•
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and otherwise is in the 
best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
•
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council, 
conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other 
municipal codes that exist on the site; and, 
•
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime prevention, and security. 
The proposed site plan and building design are discussed in greater detail below under Design Review. The SPAR findings 
for approval are discussed in detail in the Resolution in Attachment 1. Overall, the project design is harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood, will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City,  is consistent 
with all applicable development standards and sections of the General Plan, and will not create adverse impacts.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Therefore, there is sufficient basis to approve the proposed project with the recommended conditions.
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
The Site Development Code (SMMC 23.40) requires approval of a SDPA when major vegetation, consisting of trees with a 
trunk diameter of six inches or greater measured at forty-eight (48) inches above natural grade, is removed from a parcel 
of land in conjunction with the redevelopment of the parcel. The project proposes to remove all of the six existing trees 
on-site. All six trees have a diameter greater than six inches at 48 inches above grade, including five Protected Trees, which 
requires the processing of a SDPA and tree replacements or in-lieu fee payments. 
Per the Site Development Code, the Planning Commission shall approve the application if all concerns regarding surface 
grading, structure foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal are found to be 
addressed. The SDPA findings for approval are discussed in detail in Attachment 1. Overall, the removal of the trees is 
necessary to accommodate the development of the proposed project, and the tree removals will be replaced with tree 
replants and/or payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund. Therefore, there is sufficient basis to approve the 
proposed project with the recommended conditions.
State Density Bonus Law
The project is utilizing provisions of State Density Bonus and Other Incentives (Government Code Section 65915). To 
comply with State Density Bonus Law and to implement the General Plan Housing Element, the City is required to provide 
increased residential density, reduced parking standards, as well as “incentives or concessions” and “waivers or reductions 
from development standards” for residential projects that provide senior housing units, child care facilities, or set aside a 
portion of units to be affordable to Very Low, Low, or Moderate-income households.
The applicant has requested a waiver to allow a minimum parcel width of 70 feet instead of 80 feet for parcels over 10,000 
square feet, which would allow for a base density of 12 units, or 43.56 dwelling units per acre. The applicant proposes to 
designate 16.67% of the base density (two of the 12 units) as affordable at the Very Low-income category, which entitles 
the project to a 50% density bonus. This results in an allowable density of 65.34 units per acre, which permits a maximum 
of 19 units to be developed. The project is proposing a total of 18 units.
The State Density Bonus Law also allows the applicant to request three incentives/concessions, reduced parking standards, 
and unlimited waivers from development standards. Cities must approve requested incentives/concessions unless the 
requested incentive/concession:
1)
Does not result in identifiable and actual cost reduction to provide for affordable housing costs; or
2)
Creates a specific, adverse impact upon public health or safety or a historical structure; or
3)
Is contrary to state or federal law, per Government Code Section 65915.
Applicants may also request waivers from City development standards if application of a City development standard would 
have the effect of physically precluding the construction of a project at the densities or with the incentives/concessions 
permitted, per Gov. Code Section 65915.
The applicant is requesting a reduced parking ratio of 0.5 spaces per residential unit, as well as the following waivers:

Increase in height from 40 feet to 42 feet and 8 inches

Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls from 30% to 59%;

Increase the maximum slope of the driveway ramp from 18% to 20%;

Reduce office parking requirements from one space per 335 square feet of office floor area to one space per 360 
square feet of office floor area; and

Reduce the minimum required ground floor height from 15 feet to 14 feet.
The applicant is also requesting an incentive to reduce the landscape buffer requirements to 10 feet along the street and 
interior side lot lines, and eight feet on the 2nd through 4th levels, rather than providing a buffer equal to one-half the 
height of the building, which would be 21 feet and 4 inches. The applicant’s Density Bonus Request Letter (Attachment 5) 
provides additional details about how the cost savings from the requested incentive/concession offsets the cost of

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
providing the two affordable units and how the City’s development standards for which waivers are sought would 
preclude the proposed project at its permitted density.
Since the project requests density bonus, waivers, and concessions, the State Density Bonus Law requires replacement 
units for any units being demolished that were either designated as affordable units or occupied at the time of application 
submittal by households in the low or very low-income categories (Gov. Code Section 65915(c)(3)). If tenant income 
information is not available, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Comprehensive Housing 
Affordability Strategy database may be utilized to determine the number of replacement units, which could amount up to 
three below market rate units for this project. A condition of approval requiring the applicant to comply with this 
requirement has been added.  
San Mateo Inclusionary Housing and Commercial Linkage Fee Requirements
At the time of the planning application submittal, the City’s Inclusionary Housing Program required rental projects to 
provide 15% of the proposed units to be dedicated to the lower-income level, or alternatively to provide 10% of the 
proposed units to be dedicated to the very-low income level. The proposed project will be dedicating 16% of the base 
density (two units) as affordable at the very-low income level, so it will be exceeding the City’s minimum requirements. 
The project could potentially be required to dedicate an additional replacement unit in order to meet the State’s 
replacement unit requirements (Government Code Section 65915(c)(3), as described above. These affordable units, which 
will be one-bedroom units, will be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City, generally be 
of comparable size to similar market rate units, and have an exterior design and appearance compatible with similar 
market rate units.  
The project will not provide an Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee. The linkage fee applies to non-residential 
construction, including offices, of over 5,000 square feet that are anticipated to increase the number of employees, which 
creates a demand for housing. The project proposes 4,495 square feet of office and would not trigger the requirement to 
provide an Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee.
Housing Accountability Act
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA), as implemented under Government Code Section 65589.5, establishes application 
review limitations for new development projects that are at least two-thirds housing. This project exceeds this threshold 
and is subject to the HAA, which limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing 
development projects infeasible if objective standards are met.  As proposed, this project meets all applicable objective 
standards in the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy documents, and, therefore, the local agency may only 
deny or reduce the density if certain findings pertaining to adverse impacts to codified, objective public health or safety 
standards are made.
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan
The City Pedestrian Master Plan contains sidewalk design guidelines to improve the pedestrian network citywide. Based on 
the project’s proposed use and street parking configuration, the applicable sidewalk standard is “A.10 Mixed Use Type B 
Street Parking”, which consists of the following components:
•
Sidewalk through zone width of 8-10 feet 
•
Planter/furniture zone width of 4-6 feet 
•
Curb width of 6 inches
Along El Camino Real, the sidewalk through zone would range from 8.7 to 13.4 feet wide and the planter/furniture zone 
would range from 4 to 4.5 feet wide. Along Hayward Avenue, the sidewalk through zone would be 12 feet wide and the 
planter/furniture zone would be 8 feet wide. The project conforms to the applicable sidewalk standards.
Bicycle Master Plan
The City’s Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle and micromobility use (e.g., bikeshare and electric scooters). In conformance with the Zoning Code and 
Bicycle Master Plan, the project provides 4 short-term and 19 long-term bicycle parking facilities on-site, which exceeds

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the minimum requirement of 1 short-term and 18 long-term bicycle parking spaces as required by SMMC .
Design Review
Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group, the City’s design review consultant, reviewed the project’s site and building design. 
Overall, the design review letter found that the structure is well designed with a contemporary architectural style, but did 
include several design recommendations:

Use a lighter color palette that is appropriate for the site context;

Use colors to unify various facades;

Use an alternate material for the ground floor columns (e.g., smooth stone); and

Use open railings for balconies.
In response, the applicant refined the building design and site plan which has been subsequently reviewed by City staff. 
Revisions to the project design include using a lighter color palette and redesigning the overhang at the top of the corner 
to help unite the design across three sides. In addition, the balconies have been changed to a metal frame with horizontal 
wood guardrails. The ground floor columns remain the same. Cannon Design Group’s design review letter is included as 
Attachment 6.
Technical Studies
Transportation Impact Assessment and Transportation Demand Management Plan
The City’s transportation consultant, AECOM, conducted a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) to analyze the proposed 
project’s transportation impacts in accordance with the standards of CEQA and the City’s General Plan, which is included 
as Attachment 7. Overall, the TIA concluded that the project would generate a net increase in the number of vehicle trips 
during the weekday AM peak and PM peak hours and a net increase in the Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) when compared 
to the existing uses, but would be reduced to a less than significant level through project design and incorporated 
conditions of approval which includes a Transportation Demand Management Plan (TDM Plan). The TDM Plan, prepared by 
the City’s TDM consultant, Steer, can be found in the TIA as Appendix F.
The TDM measures the project proposes include programmatic strategies aimed at encouraging the use of sustainable 
forms of transportation. These measures include:
•
Unbundled Parking;
•
New Resident and Employee Packets;
•
On-site TDM Coordinator;
•
Bike Share;
•
TDM Communications through a webpage, resident and employee bulletin boards, and social media channels;
•
Institutionalization of the TDM Program through the apartment lease; and
•
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage.
In addition, the TDM Plan will include other measures that are optional to the developer; while not being implemented
immediately, these measures have been recommended by the consultant team for the project and are available as options
for the future. These include offering a daily or monthly carpooling subsidy as well as bike education and workshops. Other 
specific trip reduction measures and strategies are indicated in the project’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Checklist, included 
in Attachment 8.
For the purposes of CEQA, the TIA evaluated the project utilizing the metric of VMT. This analysis method is required under 
Senate Bill 743 to aim at reducing single vehicle occupancy trips rather than increase roadway capacity. The TIA and TDM 
Plan concluded that the recommended measures, which are incorporated as required conditions of approval, could lead to 
a daily VMT reduction that ranges from 366 (low) to 712 (high), which is greater than the required reduction of 353 in 
order for the project to result in a Less Than Significant Impact for CEQA. The reports also note that the VMT reduction 
would be even higher if the “Optional TDM Program” is also implemented. 
AECOM also conducted a Level of Service (LOS) of various study intersections in accordance with the City’s General Plan
criteria. The two study intersections selected for analysis were:

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1.
South El Camino Real and Hayward Avenue/Aragon Boulevard
2.
Hayward Avenue mid-block between South El Camino Real and Palm Avenue
Traffic conditions at these intersections were analyzed for the weekday AM and PM peak hours when demand on the
roadway system are greatest. The TIA concludes that increased traffic levels in the future would result in increased delays 
at the Intersection #1, with LOS degrading to LOS E during the weekday AM peak hour. However, the performance of 
Intersection #2 would remain largely unchanged from the Background Conditions scenario, and both intersections are 
expected to operate at acceptable conditions (LOS E or better) with the exception of Intersection #1 during the weekday 
PM peak hour. This intersection would satisfy the peak hour signal warrant during the weekday PM peak hour.
Noise & Vibration
Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. (Pack Associates) prepared a Noise Assessment Study for the project. Pack Associates 
identified potential noise impacts including temporary noise increases in excess of established standards and exposure to 
excessive groundborne vibration due to construction, resulting in a potentially significant temporary impact. The project 
includes conditions of approval integrating Pack Associates’ recommendations, which includes reducing the excess noise 
and vibration levels to less-than-significant levels. The Noise Assessment Study is included as Attachment 9.
Air Quality & Greenhouse Gas Emission
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. (Illingworth) prepared an Air Quality & Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Report for the project. Illingworth 
identified air quality impacts and GHG  emissions from this project would be associated with the demolition of the existing 
buildings, construction of the new building and infrastructure, and operation of the project. The project includes 
conditions of approval integrating Illingworth’s recommendations, which will reduce the air quality impact to less-than-
significant levels. The Air Quality & GHG Report is included as Attachment 10.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
City Staff received two public comments at the time this report was published. The public comments are included as 
Attachment 11. Any additional public comments received after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning 
Commission for consideration at the public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public 
Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Categorical Exemption, Class 32 Section 15332 (In-Fill Development Projects), is recommended for the project pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Qualification for the exemption requires that the project is 
consistent with all applicable General Plan policies and Zoning Code regulations; the site is located within an urban setting 
on a site less than five acres in size; it has no value as habitat for endangered, rare, or threatened species; and, would 
continue to be served by all utilities and public services. In addition, as evaluated in the technical studies outlined above 
and as conditioned, approval of the project would not result in any significant impacts relating to traffic, noise, air quality, 
or water quality. The proposed project meets the above criteria and qualifies for the exemption.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting: 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Exhibit A - Conditions of Approval 
Att 2 – Location Map 
Att 3 – Project Plans 
Att 4 – Factual Data Sheet 
Att 5 – Density Bonus Letter 
Att 6 – Design Review Letter 
Att 7 – Transportation Impact Assessment 
Appendix F – Transportation Demand Management Plan
Att 8 – Climate Action Plan Checklist
Att 9 – Noise and Vibration Assessment 
Att 10 – Air Quality & Greenhouse Gas Emission Report
Att 11 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7219

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING 
APPLICATIONS FOR THE REMOVAL OF SUBSTANTIAL VEGETATION AND TO CONSTRUCT A NEW OFFICE AND 
18-RESIDENTIAL UNIT MULTI-FAMILY MIXED-USE BUILDING WITH ASSOCIATED PARKING, LANDSCAPING, AND 
COMMON AREAS AT 1 HAYWARD AVENUE APN 034-275-130. 
(PA-2019-045, 1 HAYWARD AVENUE MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT)   
 
WHEREAS, Lisa Ring of LOR Planning & Environmental Consultant (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) 
submitted a planning application PA-2019-045 with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for the removal of substantial vegetation and to 
construct a mixed-use building with 4,495 square feet of office use and 18 residential units and associated parking, 
landscaping, and common areas at 1 Hayward Avenue. (034-275-130) (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the 
City of San Mateo (“City”); and, 
WHEREAS, San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 requires final action from the 
Planning Commission for projects which include Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects of six or more 
dwelling units; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15332 In-Fill 
Development Projects; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on May 10, 2022, duly noticed, 
at which all public comments were considered; and, 
 
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that: 
 
1. The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the provisions 
of CEQA under CEQA Section 15332. 
a. The project is consistent with the applicable General Plan designation and all applicable 
General Plan policies as well as the applicable zoning designation and regulations.  
b. The project site is located within an urban setting on a project site less than five acres (0.71 
acres).

--- page 12 ---
c. The project site has no value for endangered, rare, or threatened species. The project will not 
have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or sensitive natural community, or 
on any species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special status species, identified in local 
or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of Fish and Game 
or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
The project will not have a substantial adverse effect on federally protected wetlands through 
direct removal, filling, hydrological interruption, or other means, and will not substantially 
interfere with the movement of any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or 
with established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native 
wildlife nursery sites. 
The project will not conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting biological 
resources, such as a tree preservation policy or ordinance, nor will it conflict with the 
provisions of an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan, 
or other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan.   
The project will not impact any threatened or endangered biological resources, as the site is 
developed. The project will include the removal of six trees, ranging from approximately 20 
to 50 feet in height, and planting of two new trees on the project site. The project applicant 
will pay a fee in lieu for the difference between the number of trees removed and the number 
of new tress to be planted, as required under SMMC 13.40. 
d. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to traffic. AECOM, the 
City’ traffic consultant, prepared a Transportation Impact Assessment (TIA), and Steer, the 
City’s transportation demand management (TDM) consultant, prepared a TDM Plan. The TIA 
concludes that while the project would generate a net increase in the number of vehicle trips 
during the weekday AM peak and PM peak hours and a net increase in the Vehicle Miles 
Traveled (VMT) when compared to the existing uses, it will be reduced to a less than 
significant level through the project design and incorporated conditions of approval which 
includes implementation of the TDM Plan.  
The TDM plan contains numerous measures to encourage use of alternative transportation 
modes, including unbundled parking, new resident and employee packets, an on-site TDM 
coordinator, bike share, etc.  
The project will not conflict with an applicable congestion management program and will not 
result in a change in air traffic patterns.  The project will not substantially increase hazards 
due to a design feature or incompatible uses, result in inadequate emergency access or 
inadequate parking capacity, conflict with other adopted policies, plans, or programs 
regarding public transit, bicycle, or pedestrian facilities, or otherwise decrease the 
performance or safety of such facilities. All safety elements will be designed to meet 
applicable California Building, Fire, Safety and any other requirements. 
e. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to noise with the 
incorporation of project conditions of approval. The project, as conditioned, will not expose 
persons to, or generate, noise levels, groundborne vibration, or groundborne noise levels in 
excess of standards established in the local general plan or noise ordinance, or applicable

--- page 13 ---
standards, and will not create a substantial permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the 
project vicinity above existing levels.     
The project may expect a substantial temporary or periodic increase in groundborne vibration 
during construction. Noise generated during construction would differ depending on the 
construction phase and the type and amount of equipment used at the construction site.  The 
applicant will be required to abide by the project conditions of approval, construction work 
hours, and the City’s Noise Ordinance.    
f. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to air quality. The 
project will not conflict with or obstruct implementation of the applicable air quality plan, 
violate any air quality standard or contribute substantially to an existing or projected air 
quality violation, result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any criteria pollutant, 
expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations, or create objectionable 
odors affecting a substantial number of people.   
The project will have limited impact on air quality and would not subject customers or 
employees of nearby businesses, visitors, residents, and/or neighbors to objectionable odors. 
The project would not result in additional exposure of sensitive receptors to substantial 
pollutant concentrations in the long term but has the potential to generate dust and other 
pollutants, during demolition, grading, and construction. However, the impact of dust 
generated by demolition, grading and/or construction activities is temporary in nature and 
limited to site preparation and future construction of the new development.  The project 
conditions of approval would minimize dust and vehicle emissions during grading and 
construction activities.   
g. Approval of the project will not result in any significant effects relating to water quality. The 
project will not violate any water quality standards or waste discharge requirements or 
substantially deplete groundwater supplies or interfere substantially with groundwater 
recharge as the site is not serviced by nearby wells, nor will it alter the existing drainage 
pattern of the site or area, create or contribute runoff water which would exceed the capacity 
of existing or planned stormwater drainage systems.   
The project will not otherwise substantially degrade water quality or place housing or 
structures within a 100-year flood hazard area since the project is not located within a 100-
year flood plain. The project will not expose people or structures to a significant risk of loss, 
injury or death involving flooding, including flooding as a result of the failure of a levee or dam 
or create inundation by seiche, tsunami, or mudflow since the project is not located in an area 
of potential inundation as identified in the City’s General Plan. 
h. The site is adequately served by all required utilities. The project would not exceed 
wastewater treatment requirements of the applicable Regional Water Quality Control Board, 
require or result in the construction of new water or wastewater treatment facilities or 
expansion of existing facilities, require or result in the construction of new storm water 
drainage facilities or expansion of existing facilities.  The Public Works department has 
determined that there is adequate infrastructure capacity serving the site to adequately 
handle the increases.

--- page 14 ---
i. 
The site is adequately served by all required public services. The project would not result in 
substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision of new or physically altered 
governmental facilities, need for new or physically altered governmental facilities, in order to 
maintain acceptable service ratios, response times or other performance objectives for Fire 
protection, Police protection, Schools, Parks, or other public facilities. The project will be 
subject to various impact fees, and is located in an urbanized area served by municipal 
services, therefore it is not anticipated to significantly impact public services or require the 
additional construction of public facilities as the proposed multi-family residential use can be 
accommodated with existing levels of service.   
 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AS 
FOLLOWS: 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a.  The Project conforms with Policy LU 1.15 which encourages developments that mix commercial 
retail or office uses with residential. The proposed building consists of office on the ground floor 
and residential above, which is consistent with this policy. 
b.   The Project conforms with Specific Area Policy PA 5.1 which encourages commercial and high 
density residential developments between Ninth Avenue and SR 92 with heights between 40 to 
55 feet, as delineated on the Building Height and Intensity Plans. The Project, located at 1 Hayward 
Avenue, is proposing a four-story, office and residential apartment mixed-use building at a height 
of 42 feet 7-7/8 inches which is within this height range, and the proposed density is 65.34 DU/AC 
including the additional 6 units as allowed under the State Density Bonus Law. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Circulation Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy C 2.5 of the Circulation Element in that a Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) has been prepared for this project. The TIA concluded that the Project would 
generate a net increase of 12 vehicle trips during the weekday AM peak and net increase of 15 
vehicle trips during the PM peak hours, and a net increase in the Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) 
when compared to the existing uses as the project would total 14.8 VMT/capita and 22.2 
VMT/employee, but the impacts would be reduced to a less than significant level through project 
design and incorporated conditions of approval which includes implementing the TDM Plan. 
b. The Project conforms to policies C 2.10 of the Circulation Element in that a Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Plan has been prepared for this project, and the required measures 
in the TDM Plan will be implemented. 
 
3. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Housing Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policy H2.4 of the Housing Element in that the Project provides two out 
of 18 units as new affordable housing opportunities in conformance with the City’s below-market-
rate requirements. 
 
4. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Urban Design Element of the City’s General Plan.

--- page 15 ---
a. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.1 of the Urban Design Element in that the Project has been 
reviewed by the City’s design consultant and was found to generally comply with the City’s Multi-
family Design Guidelines, which encourages the preservation and enhancement of neighborhood 
character through building sale, materials, architectural style, quality of construction, open space, 
location of parking and lot size. The design and use of high quality materials for the proposed four-
story building will create a cohesive transition between the existing multi-family developments 
and commercial office buildings that are lower in height to the east and to the south.  
b. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.4 of the Urban Design Element in that all on-site parking for 
the Project will be located underground.  
c. The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.5 of the Urban Design Element in that the Project will provide 
3,260 square feet of open space and 2,550 square feet of usable open space, exceeding the 
minimum open space requirements.  
 
5. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Conservation and Open Space Element of the City’s 
General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policies C/OS 6.12 of the Conservation and Open Space Element in that 
the Project will remove six Heritage trees but will plant two new trees and pay an in-lieu fees for 
the remainder. 
 
6. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Noise Element of the City’s General Plan.  
a. The Project conforms to Policies N 1.1 and N 1.2 of the Noise Element in that a Noise and Vibration 
Report has been completed for the Project which provides long-term recommended noise 
reduction measures and requires an acoustical analysis at later stages of the building permit 
review process. Additionally, the Project’s Conditions of Approval will require noise reduction 
measures during the construction phase of the Project. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE 1 HAYWARD AVENUE MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT, PA-2019-045 AT 1 HAYWARD AVENUE 
(034-275-130) BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL TO THIS RESOLUTION AND THE 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION: 
 
1. The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that: 
i. The building design has varying heights, various wall articulations, and will be constructed 
with a mix of high quality building materials.  
ii. The parking will be underground and will not be visible from the street. 
iii. The project incorporates open space and usable open space that exceeds the minimum 
open space requirements.

--- page 16 ---
b. 
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City 
in that: 
i. The project is consistent with the General Plan and Municipal Code. 
ii. The project consists of office and 18 multi-family dwelling units, including two affordable 
units, for the residents of the San Mateo. 
iii. The development meets the applicable sections of the Multi-family Design Guidelines. 
 
c. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that: 
i. The office and 18 unit apartment mixed-use building will improve the surrounding 
area by providing additional jobs and housing units that are in proximity to highway 
access, public transit, and proposed bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure.  
ii. The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and 
the City’s building security code. 
 
d. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site. 
 
e. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval. 
 
2. The Site Development Planning Application (Municipal Code Section 23.40.040) for the removal 
of major vegetation and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following 
findings: 
a. The project will result in the removal of six existing trees, of which five qualify as Protected 
Trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the development of the 
proposed project. All trees will be removed and replaced with appropriate landscaping to 
both enhance the site and create necessary buffers between surrounding properties.  
b. All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of approval 
requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive 
on-site landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or through tree replants and/or the 
payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.

--- page 17 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2019-045, 1 HAYWARD AVE., SPAR+SDPA
1 HAYWARD AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PARCEL # 034275130
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance.
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
 1 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – Applicants of commercial projects over 10,000 
sq. ft. of either:  a) new commercial development, b) addition of square footage to 
existing commercial development, and/or c) commercial tenant improvements 
requiring a planning approval shall be required to comply with SMMC 23.65.  The 
final fee will be based on the square footage of the entire project and is to be paid 
at time of building permit issuance.  It shall be paid into the Child Care 
Development Fund and will be determined based on the approved project and 
construction drawings.  This condition shall be met prior to first building permit 
issuance.  (BUILDING)
 2 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction 
conference shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and 
applicant for the purpose of reviewing Conditions of Approval and 
construction-site procedures.  The applicant shall be represented by his design 
and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors.  Departments having 
conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This meeting shall be 
held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit 
is issued first. (BUILDING)
 3 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - As required by state law, an asbestos and lead paint 
abatement scope of work shall be developed prior to issuance of a demolition 
permit for the structure on the project site. All measures outlined in this scope of 
work shall be implemented as part of the project. This scope of work shall outline 
the performance parameters for hazardous remediation standards and regulatory 
compliance criteria. In addition, any asbestos abatement contractors performing 
work on the site shall be licensed by the State of California. Buildings of the age 
of those on the project site may contain mercury and/or PCBs. Therefore these

--- page 18 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 2 of 35
hazardous materials shall be found and removed prior to demolition and recycling. 
This shall be verified as part of a final hazardous materials report prepared by a 
qualified consultant and shall be submitted to the Building Division prior to 
issuance of a demolition permit. (BUILDING)
 4 CALGREEN – The building shall be designed to include the green building 
measures specified as mandatory in the application checklists contained in the 
California Green Building Standards Code.  The applicant shall incorporate the 
checklist along with a notation on the checklist to specify where the information 
can be located on the plans, details, or specifications, etc.
 5 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a site survey of entire parcel stamped 
and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California.  The survey shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following:  location and dimensions of property 
line, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic contour 
lines, trees/landscape, and miscellaneous structures.  The purpose of the site 
survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback dimensions, 
heights of buildings from established contours, and compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance. (BUILDING)
 6 SOILS REPORT – The applicant shall provide a stamped, signed, and dated soil 
investigation report containing design recommendations to the Building Official.  
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of 
materials disclosed by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations.  
Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil strength, the effect of 
moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, compressibility, liquefaction, 
seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and expansiveness.  
Additionally, the applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated letter from 
the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
stating the following:
(A)
The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations
in the soil investigation.
(B)
The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil
investigation has been retained to provide soil site observation and provide
periodic and final reports to the City of San Mateo.
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or 
Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating 
the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work

--- page 19 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 3 of 35
substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations. 
(BUILDING)
 7 SHORING/SCAFFOLDING - A separate building permit shall be required for all 
shoring and scaffolding work.  Shoring/scaffolding plans, calculations, etc., shall 
be reviewed and approved by Building Division.  The applicant must obtain an 
encroachment permit from the Public Works Department for scaffolding erected 
within the public right-of-way. (BUILDING)
 8 DEMOLITION - Demolition permit(s) shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.  Safeguards during construction shall 
be provided in accordance with Chapter 33 of the California Building Code and any 
specific Conditions of Approval.  Prior to the permit issuance, a completed 
Worksheet/Application and a Demolition Plan must be submitted and approved by 
the Building Official.  This form is available at the Building Division Counter.  
(BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
 9 FIRE HYDRANTS - The applicant shall install  fire hydrant(s) at spacing per the 
SMC Fire ordinance.  All fire hydrants used for fire flow for the project site shall be 
upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent consisting of (2) 2½ inch and (1) 4½ 
inch outlet.  Each hydrant shall be capable of providing a minimum fire flow of 
1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure.  Water supply for fire protection is required 
to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s specifications.  The water 
supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable PRIOR to any combustible 
construction materials being placed on the site.  Staged construction shall insure 
that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval before the issuance of a fire sprinkler permit. 
(FIRE)
 10 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - The applicant shall install a N.F.P.A. 13 fire sprinkler 
system complying with local amendments. The applicant shall also provide 
permanent drainage to sanitary sewer for all sprinkler discharge. Fire sprinkler 
system plans shall be submitted under separate fire plan check and permit. A 
separate plan check permit is required for the underground fire service. (FIRE)
 11 FIRE FLOW - The applicant shall meet the fire flow rate and duration requirements 
of the California Fire Code. The fire flow information shall be submitted to the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of the 
building permit. (FIRE)

--- page 20 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 4 of 35
 12 FIRE CONTROL ROOM - An approved fire control room shall be provided for this 
building.  There shall be direct access to the room directly from the exterior of the 
building.  Refer to San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Fire Code Section 
508.2 for details. The fire control room shall be indicated on the building permit 
set of plans submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and 
approval prior to the issuance of the building permit. (FIRE)
 13 CODE CONFORMANCE - The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans 
that all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building 
permit submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the building permit. 
(FIRE)
 14 SUBMITTALS - The applicant shall submit all fire plans in conjunction with the 
superstructure building permit plans. The plans are subject to review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the superstructure 
building permit plans.  (FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
15 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – Prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit,
Building Permit, or Site Development Permit, the Tree Protection Plan and Arborist 
Report shall be reproduced on full-size sheets of permit plans, and shall be 
completed prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. Protected Street 
Tree #8 shall be shown on a full-size site plan with the location of tree protection 
measures specified by the Project Arborist. On this same site plan, refer to the 
sheet(s) where the Tree Protection Plan/Arborist Report can be found in the plan 
set. (PARKS AND RECREATION)
 16 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR TREE REMOVAL – The applicant shall obtain a 
Site Development Permit for tree removal from the Planning Division for removal 
of existing trees with a diameter of 6 inches or larger at 54” above grade. The Site 
Development Permit for tree removal shall authorize the applicant to replace 
on-site and street trees equivalent or greater than the Landscape Unit (LU) value 
of trees to be removed by planting on-site and street trees, paying a fee in lieu of 
planting trees at the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule 
upon permit issuance, or a combination of both. (PLANNING)
 17 INITIAL SITE INSPECTION - Prior to the issuance of demolition permits, the Project 
Arborist is to email a letter with photos to the City Planner assigned to this project 
verifying that all tree protection measures were properly implemented.  A 
schedule of future site inspections may be required when submitting for Building 
Permits.  (PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 5 of 35
Planning Division (PA)
18 RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The applicant shall record the
final approved planning application conditions of approval document at the San 
Mateo County Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall submit proof of recordation in 
the form of a recorded document that includes a confirmation sticker with the 
recordation evidence.   This document shall be recorded prior to the issuance of 
the demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit, whichever 
comes first. (PLANNING)
 19 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES - All ground level trash and recycling 
enclosures shall be screened from public view by a solid wall or solid fence, 
and/or perimeter landscaping. These facilities shall be designed and located as 
delineated on the approved planning application drawings. The building permit 
plans shall show the location and screening of the Enclosure; however; the final 
location and required screening of all Items shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Zoning Administrator before issuance of a certificate of occupancy/final of the 
project. (PLANNING)
 20 BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) RENTAL UNITS AGREEMENT– Pursuant to Municipal 
Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 135 (2010), the applicant shall enter into 
and record a Below Market Rate Affordability Restriction Agreement to provide 
BMR units. This also includes payment of below market rate program in-lieu fee 
for fractional units as outlined in the City of San Mateo Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule, as necessary.  (PLANNING)
 21 LOCATION AND FULL SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, 
AND DEVICES INCLUDING TRANSFORMERS AND BACK FLOW PREVENTORS - All 
ground level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices (“Items”) shall be shown on the building permit plans, consistent with the 
approved planning application plans.  All Items shall be fully screened on all four 
sides from public view by a solid wall or solid wood fence that complies with San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.84 Fences, Trees and Hedges. Landscaping in 
the form of densely planted tall shrubs may be utilized where placement of a 
fence is infeasible, subject to review and determination by the Zoning 
Administrator in the field. These Items shall be setback as far as feasible from 
street frontages and shall be fully screened with landscaping or other screening 
material. The building permit plans shall show the location and screening of these 
items and this condition shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted 
for any demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first; however; the final

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 6 of 35
location and required screening of all Items shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Zoning Administrator prior to release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first (PLANNING)
 22 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN - Prior to the issuance of a Site Development Permit or 
demolition building permit, whichever is issued first, the applicant shall 
implement and conform to, upon review and approval by the Zoning Administrator, 
a plan for the control and removal of rodents and other pests to prevent 
infestation of adjacent land uses and surrounding neighborhoods. This plan shall 
include pest control measures required during all phases of construction, and also 
for a period of six months after the completion of construction.  (PLANNING)
 23 LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS - All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 
27.71 of the Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on 
project plans:
(A)
All planting areas located within or adjacent to open parking areas
containing five (5) or more parking spaces  shall provide a six-inch-high vertical
concrete curb to protect the planting areas. For parking lots containing less than 5
stalls, this requirement may be met by a concrete wheel stop in front of each
diagonal or perpendicular stall plus a minimum six-inch-high concrete curb in
other areas or approved equal.
(B)
The applicant shall install street trees along public streets in accordance
with City Standards and the City Street Tree Master Plan. Street trees that are
located in sidewalk areas shall be constructed per City Standard Drawings
3-1-847, Tree Planting Details. The applicant and its successors shall irrigate
these street trees at all times that the use permitted under this approval occupies
the property.  A street tree maintenance easement shall be required if the street
trees are to be located on private property and no such easement exists.
(C)
A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting
areas except in areas of turfgrass or annuals.
(D)
The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape
contractor or General Contractor for a Plant Establishment Maintenance Period
consisting of three (3) growing season months (March through October) for all
proposed landscape areas.  All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of litter,
debris and weeds.  All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy
growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 7 of 35
materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans.  (PLANNING)
 24 HOUSING – Prior to issuance of the demolition permit, the applicant shall 
demonstrate conformance to the housing and tenant replacement requirements 
per California Government Code 65915(c)(3) as applicable. This includes but is not 
limited to providing at least the same number of units to be made available at 
affordable rental cost to, and occupied by, persons and families in the same or 
lower income category as those households in occupancy at the time of planning 
application submittal. If the income category of the household in occupancy is not 
known, it shall be presumed that lower income renter households occupied these 
units in the same proportion of lower income renter households to all renter 
households within the jurisdiction, which is 47% and equivalent to a maximum of 3 
units, as determined by the most recently available data from the U.S. Department 
of Housing and Urban Development’s Comprehensive Housing Affordability 
Strategy database. (PLANNING)
 25 INTERIOR NOISE LEVELS – The project design shall result in a completed project 
that complies with the City’s Noise Goals as enumerated in the Noise Element of 
the General Plan and incorporated here by reference.  The applicant shall provide 
an acoustical analysis, by a licensed acoustical consultant, which shall contain 
recommendations to ensure the building’s interior day-night average sound levels 
(LDN) are in compliance with the levels established in the San Mateo General 
Plan.  A copy of the acoustical analysis shall be submitted as part of the building 
permit drawings for this project.  The applicant shall submit a letter prepared by 
the person/firm who prepared the acoustical analysis for the project, verifying that 
all recommendations contained in the analysis have been incorporated into the 
construction of the project. The letter shall also verify that the project will comply 
with the noise requirements contained in the City’s General Plan.(PLANNING)
 26 TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE - Relocation assistance shall be provided to 
the existing tenant(s) occupying each unit to be demolished at the time the 
subject planning application is filed, consistent with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 27.02.180. 
The list of available comparable housing units within San Mateo County shall be 
provided to the existing tenant(s) by the property owner, or the designated 
property manager, at the time when notice to vacate the unit is given to the 
existing tenant(s) or upon request by the tenant(s), whichever occurs first. The list 
of available comparable housing units shall be updated weekly by the property 
owner, or the designated property manager, until the units are vacated.
The tenant(s) shall also be provided with a relocation allowance in the form of 
cash or check equal to three (3) months' rent at the tenant's rate that is in effect

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 8 of 35
on the date of the final planning application approval.  The relocation allowance 
shall be paid to the existing tenant at the time when notice to vacate the unit is 
given to the existing tenant or upon request by the tenant when relocation 
expenses are incurred if requested by the tenant. The relocation allowance shall 
be paid no later than the time the tenant vacates the premises.
The Planning Division shall be given notice of the initiation of tenant relocation 
process, and shall be provided written verification of all compliance with all 
requirements of this condition. All relocation assistance shall be paid prior to the 
issuance of the Building Permit for demolition of the existing residential 
building(s). (PLANNING)
 27 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – Final plans shall include all the Conditions of 
Approval beginning on sheet 2 of the plans.  (PLANNING)
 28 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall 
check with the Project Planner to determine whether any outstanding planning 
applications fees exist and those fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the 
first building permit.  (PLANNING)
 29 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical 
equipment must be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall, in conformance 
with the approved planning application. Rooftop screening shall be constructed 
with the same building materials as the building exterior, or other compatible 
materials as approved by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator. 
(PLANNING)
 30 TRAFFIC NOISE IMPACTS TO THE PROJECT - INTERIOR - As required in the Noise 
Assessment Study prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. dated March 25, 
2022, noise insulation features shall be incorporated into the proposed project to 
reduce interior noise levels to 45 dBA Ldn or less, including but not limited to the 
following:
All windows and glass doors of living spaces with a direct or side view of El 
Camino Real (southeast, southwest and northwest facades) may be closed at the 
occupant's discretion to control interior noise and achieve interior noise 
standards. At living spaces within 72 ft. of the centerline, install windows and 
glass doors rated minimum Sound Transmission Class (STC) 35. At living spaces 
between 72 ft. and 118 ft. of the centerline, install windows and glass doors rated 
minimum STC 31. These window sound rating apply to all floor elevations. Provide 
some type of mechanical ventilation for these spaces. All other windows and glass 
doors of the project may have any type of glass and do not need to be

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 9 of 35
sound-rated. Refer to Figure 3 in the above-referenced  Noise Assessment Study 
for locations of the recommended noise control windows and glass doors.
 31 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION - All building permit 
plans, details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the 
approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, 
project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application 
shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The  
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether 
the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
 32 MECHANICAL VENTILATION - All mechanical ventilation for subterranean garages 
shall be incorporated into the building architecture, structure, or landscape areas 
as delineated on the approved planning application drawings. (PLANNING)
 33 EXCAVATED SOILS- Excavated site soils shall be tested prior to disposal to confirm 
that the concentration of constituents present in site soils do not exceed 
hazardous waste criteria of local, state and federal regulations.  If the 
concentration of constituents in the project site soils do exceed hazardous waste 
criteria, they shall be disposed of as hazardous waste in accordance with local, 
state and federal regulations. The applicant shall submit a copy of the testing 
report and associated recommendations to the City, as well as a letter prepared 
by the soils engineer stating that all recommended measures have been adhered 
to. (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
34 SITE FURNITURE- The building permit application plans shall show permanent site
furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from 
laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing 
elevation changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'.  Temporary site 
furniture shall be secured at the close of each business day.  (POLICE)
 35 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL - The building permit 
application plans shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main 
exterior building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings.  
These access systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 10 of 35
interior of the building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate 
locations that lead to secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards.  
Access system placement location is subject to the review and approval of the 
Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval of the first building 
permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of 
Police or his/her designee at the time of installation (POLICE)
 36 PARKING GARAGE SECURITY FOR MIXED USE GARAGES –  The building permit 
application plans shall show:
(a) Restricted access to the residential portion of the parking garage with
electrically operated closures to allow passage of motor vehicles at all times.
Required visitor parking shall have unrestricted access at all times.
(b) The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging shall be provided with
reopening devices which will function to stop and reopen the closure in case the
closure is obstructed when closing.
(c) Openings into the garage which are not for vehicular or human passage shall
be provided with security grilles or screens.
(d) Digital keypads and/or wireless “click to enter” systems complying with
SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL shall be provided to
allow for entry into all portions of the garage at all times.
(e) If egress doors are required by code to connect garage spaces with different
uses, the egress doors shall be alarmed and monitored.
(f) Exterior doors or gates providing access into the secure areas of the parking
garage shall remain locked at all times, and shall only be accessible through the
use of keys, key fob or remote keyless entry system devices furnished to the
building residents and shall be equipped with self-closing devices.
(g) All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have
doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and
automatically upon exit.
(h) Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers.
(i) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security
Ordinance as it applies to SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the
parking garage
(POLICE)
 37 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT - The building permit application 
plans shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her 
designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in 
foot-candles for the entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines.  The

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 11 of 35
point-by-point photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to 
exceed five feet by five feet across the entire site.  Each point shall report the 
illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles.  Photometric calculations including 
maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to 
minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be included on 
the plan submitted.  Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided on 
the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING 
STANDARDS.  (POLICE)
 38 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE - The project plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54).  
(POLICE)
 39 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit application plans shall 
show the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and 
exterior doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, and basement levels. 
(POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
40 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE – The applicant shall clean and inspect
(via remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream to the manhole 
downstream of the project area (MH 15H-01 to MH 16H-03).  The video inspection 
shall be done by a professional video inspection company, to City standards and 
the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) and be completed prior to issuance of 
the building permit for the superstructure. The video of the inspection shall be 
reviewed with the Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of 
the line along the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his 
expense.  The required repairs, as determined by the Public Works Department, 
shall appear on the building permit plans for the superstructure submitted by the 
applicant for permit plan check.  All necessary repairs to the storm line shall be 
completed and approved prior to connection from the project site. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show all storm drain lines to be clean and 
inspected.   (PUBLIC WORKS)
 41 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for 
the superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify 
different type of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private 
utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground 
electrical, gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 12 of 35
cables including the size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building 
utility service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of junction 
structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic 
rated boxes and lids.
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the 
project frontage by potholing.  Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an 
encroachment permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval.  
Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 42 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant 
shall provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with 
Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a 
Clean Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from 
Construction-Related Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 43 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” 
or equivalent, on all storm inlets surrounding and within the project site using 
methods approved by the City standards, consistent with the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 44 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all 
project fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 45 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit application plans shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located within 
the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of 
visibility at any project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height.  This includes all PG&E above 
ground structures and other utility facilities.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 46 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE  – The applicant shall 
provide an adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, 
composting collection containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid 
waste collection service.  The containers shall be placed at the service location

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 13 of 35
allowing enough room for the truck to safely approach the containers.  The 
collection containers shall be brought to the service area  and returned to the 
storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not to be in public 
view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service times.  
A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service 
provider stating that service is available to the project as designed. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
 47 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant must obtain 
an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a 
one (1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or 
easements prior to any work being done.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 48 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show all interior floor drains and shall be plumbed to connect to the sanitary 
sewer system and shall not be connected to stormwater collection system per the 
San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
 49 TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall 
submit traffic control plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of 
operation, including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable.  The traffic 
control plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements.
A site logistics plan is required for each phase of operation.  The plan, at a 
minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, duration, 
construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 50 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs 
Screening Assessment Form as described within the guidelines included within the 
current Building Demolition Plan Submittal Checklist. The Form shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 51 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant 
shall be required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all 
engineering, inspection and survey services that may be required during plan

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 14 of 35
check and construction of the project.  The amount of the deposit shall be 
$20,000.  Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building 
permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is submitted.  The applicant shall be 
required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the City, for any costs in 
excess of the deposit.  Invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 
30 days of receipt).  Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full.  The City 
will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 52 UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show that water from the underground parking garage shall 
not be discharged into the storm drain system. The applicant shall direct 
discharge from covered or underground garage to the City's sanitary sewer 
system.  Stormwater runoff from the roof or other exposed areas of the project 
shall not discharge to these garage drains.  The design shall be done by a licensed 
Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic calculations and drawings subject to the 
approval of the Director of Public Works or designee.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 53 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify 
the vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor.  Grading plans shall 
show existing topo and features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan 
shall show existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow 
lines, slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 54 CALTRANS PERMIT - Prior to the issuance of a foundation building permit, the 
applicant must submit evidence to the Public Works Department of approval by 
the State of California for the performance of any work within the State right of 
way.  If the City is required to be a party to the permit application and a fee is 
required, the applicant shall reimburse the City for its cost.  The Applicant is 
encouraged to contact the Caltrans permit office as soon as possible to learn what 
is required to obtain Caltrans approval and issuance of a State Encroachment 
Permit.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 55 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a 
final address plan. Said submittal shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition permit, 
building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to issuance 
of whichever permit is issued first.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 56 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including 
telephone, electric power, and other communications lines underground to the 
building in accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020.

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 15 of 35
Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall be placed on private property or 
within a utility easement.   (PUBLIC WORKS)
 57 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – Install trash capture devices in storm drain systems 
that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or outfall.  Devices shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. Trash capture 
devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources Control 
Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment 
Facilities Maintenance Agreement.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 58 SEPARATE WATER METERS - When a development includes multiple uses, there 
shall be a separate water meter for each development use.  This will facilitate the 
accurate assessment of the Sewer Service Charge, which is based on water use 
and customer class.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 59 TIE-BACK AGREEMENT – If the shoring system required to perform the excavation 
for the project includes tie-backs that encroach into the public right-of-way, the 
Applicant shall execute and record the City's standard tie-back agreement prior to 
the issuance of the shoring building permit.
 60 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall clean and 
inspect (via remote TV camera) the mainline sewer from the manhole upstream to 
the manhole downstream of the project lateral connection (MH 304-09X to MH 
304-14X).  The video inspection shall be done by a professional sanitary sewer
video inspection company, to City standards and the Sewer System Management
Plan (SSMP) and be completed prior to issuance of the building permit for the
superstructure. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with the Department
of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along the project
frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his expense.  The required repairs
(spray foam-RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of roots, or replacement), as
determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on the building permit
plans for the superstructure submitted by the applicant for permit plan check.  All
necessary repairs to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior to
connection of the project lateral to the sewer. The building permit plans for the
superstructure shall show all sanitary sewer lines to be clean and inspected.
(PUBLIC WORKS)
 61 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company 
shall be supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 16 of 35
 62 PARKING LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include all 
required off street parking lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps profile, 
and parking dimensions in conformance with City parking standards. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 63 DRAINAGE – Drainage designed into landscaping with the purpose of reducing 
volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to 
extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. No increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted 
downstream.  In addition, discharge must conform to any non point source permit 
issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board.  Drainage improvements 
made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and shall not allow 
any site drainage to impact adjacent properties.  All drainage capacity 
calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed 
engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted 
to the City for review and approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of 
the building permit for the superstructure. Projects that include permanent 
structural controls for stormwater treatment, must comply with requirements of 
Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County 
(MRP).  The O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such control 
features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and specify 
the owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and 
maintenance.  Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the 
County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this 
permit, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
64 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING - The applicant shall submit a
completed Water Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening 
form indicates the project is subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping 
Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, additional 
documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also be included with the 
site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms are located 
on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required landscape 
documentation package with building permit application subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 17 of 35
Fire Department (PA)
65 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM- A Fire Alarm system complying with NFPA 72 and CFC 907 is
required. (FIRE)
Planning Division (PA)
66 NOISE COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT - As required in the Noise Assessment Study
prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. dated March 25, 2022, the following 
measures shall be incorporated into the project:
(A) Designate a noise complaint officer who shall be available at all times during
construction hours via both phone and email. Signage shall be posted at site
entries with contact information (phone and email) for noise complaints, similar to
the above-referenced Noise Assessment Study example.
(B) Notify, in writing, all residential and noise sensitive commercial neighbors
within 300 ft. of the site of construction. The notification shall contain the name,
phone number and email address of the noise complaint officer. A flyer may be
placed at the doors of the residences.
(C) A log of all complaints shall be maintained and submitted to the city every
other month. The logs shall contain the name and address of the complainant, the
date and time of the complaint, the nature/description of the noise source, a
description of the remediation attempt or the reason remediation could not be
attempted. (PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
67 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE – The applicant shall pay a charge
proportional to the project’s share of the increased amount of sewage generated 
by the project, as established by the ordinance in effect at the time of planning 
application submission.  The fee shall be collected by the Public Works 
Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit.  
The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 68 SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE – In order to meet the increased 
demands on the South Trunk Sewer system created by this project, the applicant 
shall contribute fees toward the construction cost to increase its capacity based 
upon the project’s average projected sanitary flow, as established by the 
ordinance in effect at the time of planning application submission.  The fee shall 
be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 18 of 35
effect on January 13, 2022.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 69 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES  – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC 
Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation 
purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64).   The final fee shall be 
determined upon approval of the final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the 
issuance of the building permit for the park impact fee.  The park in-lieu fee shall 
be paid prior to the release of the final map for recordation and the park impact 
fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of the building permit.  If a project with an 
approved tentative map is issued a building permit prior to the approval of the 
final map, the applicant shall be subject to the payment of the park impact fee 
only prior to the issuance of the first building superstructure permit.  (PARKS)
 70 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee 
proportional to the project's share of transportation improvements needed to 
serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo, as established by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13.  The fee shall be collected by the Public 
Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit.  The fee shall be based on the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)
 71 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS EASEMENT – The owner shall dedicate a pedestrian access 
easement, as delineated in the approved planning application plans. The 
easement shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee, recorded 
with the County Recorder’s Office, and a recorded copy of the document returned 
to the City prior to the release of the building permit for the superstructure. The 
building permit plans for the superstructure shall show all easements. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
 72 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE – In order to meet the 
increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, 
the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the 
average projected sanitary flow, as established by City Council Resolution No. 24 
(2006). The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior 
to issuance of the first superstructure building permit.  The fee shall be based on 
the fee schedule in effect on January 13, 2022. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 73 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements.  All public improvements 
shall be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.  
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 19 of 35
removal and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of 
developer's operations.  Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public 
Works Construction Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing 
conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right of way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the 
superstructure building permit submittal and substantially conform to the 
approved planning application.  Any changes to the improvements shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their sole discretion. All 
design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted.  Project specifications shall 
be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by 
Public Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit.  The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of 
way: 
(A) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a
material and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and
replace any that are damaged during construction. These include but are not
limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs and handicap markings. All
permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic.  Color and location of
painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by the Director
of Public Works or designee.  Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no
longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in
paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any
red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
(B) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk
surrounding the project site.  Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per City
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
(C) CURB RAMP – The applicant shall construct one (1) curb ramp in accordance
with State Standard Drawing No. A88A. The actual ramp "Case" shall be identified

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 20 of 35
on the plans and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or 
designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(D) CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all
curb and gutter surrounding the project site. New curb and gutter shall be
constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A.   (PUBLIC WORKS)
(E) DRIVEWAY APPROACH – The applicant shall install one (1) City Standard
commercial driveway approach as shown on the approved planning application
plans.  The new commercial driveway approach shall be constructed per City
Standard Drawing 3-1-148. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(F) DRIVEWAY REMOVAL – The applicant shall remove the existing driveway
approaches located  El Camino Real as shown on the approved planning
application plans, and replace them with sidewalk, curb and gutter per City
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A (PUBLIC WORKS)
(G) SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City
Standard sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main
located in the street right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance
with City Standard Drawing 3 1 101.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
(H) STREETLIGHTS/PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS - The applicant shall submit a
photometric analysis showing the installation of new post top streetlights along
the project frontages, to meet the required levels shown below as recommended
by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Illuminance Method. The photometric
plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for the entire
sidewalk area immediately adjacent to the project. The analysis shall include two
sidewalk analysis zone (AZ), one per frontage , and may require other zones if
applicable. The sidewalk analysis shall start at the back of the pedestrian access
easement boundary to the face of curb along the El Camino frontage and start at
the back of walk to the face of curb along the Hayward Avenue frontage. The
sidewalk AZs shall show calculation data such as average, maximum, minimum,
uniformity ratio (avg./min) in foot-candle and the number of points. Each AZ shall
be clearly labeled, and calculations shall be presented in a legible and concise
manner. The Light Loss Factor (LLF) used for this analysis shall be .803. A pole and
luminaire schedule shall be included in the photometric analysis showing the
mounting height (MH), mast arm length (MA) and luminaire type for all existing
and proposed street lights included in the analysis. The selected specifications for

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 21 of 35
the fixtures used for the analysis shall be provided by the City as per the latest 
City Standard to meet latest greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals. Once the 
photometric analysis has been completed, the developer shall furnish and install 
the post top streetlight improvements outlined by the photometric analysis. The 
final quantity and location of new post top streetlights will be determined by the 
photometric analysis.
The applicant shall also submit a full streetlight and electrical plan showing the 
existing streetlight infrastructure and proposed post top streetlight infrastructure 
as dictated by the photometric analysis. The streetlight and electrical plan shall 
show all poles, luminaires, conductors, conduits, pull boxes, service connections, 
electrical enclosures, fuse holders, bus fuses and all other electrical components 
necessary to construct the improvements. The specifications for the light pole and 
fixture shall be provided by Public Works. It is the developer’s responsibility to 
prepare all plans, calculations, and documents and coordinate with PG&E to get 
the necessary power to these new improvements. If power is to be tapped into an 
existing streetlight circuit, voltage drop calculations shall be included in the plans. 
All fees, permits and dues associated with these improvements shall be paid for 
by the developer. The final streetlight design, including the placement and total 
number of new post top streetlights, shall be approved by the City Engineer.
PROJECT LIGHTING DESIGN CRITERIA  
IES Table 16-2 Recommended Values for Medium Pedestrian Activity Areas 
(RP-8-18)
El Camino Real & Hayward Avenue –Sidewalks: Medium Pedestrian Conflict
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, or 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first, or if another deadline 
is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
74 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – In accordance with the City’s Water
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a 
licensed landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified 
irrigation designer shall complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of 
San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, 
the certification of completion shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector 
subject to the review and approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. 
(BUILDING)

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 22 of 35
 75 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall be required to comply with Section 
23.60 of the San Mateo Municipal Code for Art in Public Places.  Applicability is 
determined based on the valuation of all construction for the project at time of 
building permit issuance; this will be a cumulative total for all structures within 
the project.  Section 23.60.060 details the allowable methods of compliance, 
generally described to include the installation of Civic Arts Committee approved 
artwork to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or payment of 
a fee in lieu of placement of public art, or a combination thereof in an amount that 
is equal one-half of one percent of the total building valuation, excluding land 
acquisition and off-site improvement costs.  The in-lieu fee shall be paid into the 
Art in Public Places Fund. This condition shall be met in accordance with Section 
23.60.050 prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
76 REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT - Provide a key switch to disconnect (shunt) the
building electrical power by Fire Department personnel.  Contact the Bureau of 
Fire Protection and Life Safety to coordinate the exact location for such devices. 
The key switch location shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee 
for review and approval prior to the final inspection. (FIRE)
 77 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE - An Emergency Responder Radio 
Coverage system may be required for this building.  Testing should occur prior to 
construction due to circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. 
A third party testing grid report shall be provided to the San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department before the final inspection.  (FIRE)
Planning Division (PA)
78 LETTER OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE – The designer or architect of record
shall submit a stamped and signed letter of compliance that the construction is 
consistent with the approved building permit plans, prior to scheduling the final 
Planning Division inspection. This condition shall be met prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PLANNING)
 79 VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – The applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project landscape architect stating that all landscape 
improvements (including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed 
in compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the City for 
construction. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING)

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 23 of 35
 80 PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall notify the project planner 
for inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and other 
site improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior 
to the requested time for inspection.  (PLANNING)
 81 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant 
shall submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical 
analysis for the project, verifying that all recommendations contained in the 
analysis have been incorporated into the construction of the project. The letter 
shall also verify that the project will comply with the noise requirements 
contained in the City’s General Plan.  This condition shall be met prior to the 
release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, 
whichever occurs first. (PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
82 RECORD DRAWINGS - The applicant shall submit one full set of original record
drawings and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the 
Department of Public Works.  All underground facilities shall be shown on the 
record drawings as constructed in the field.  The applicant shall also provide the 
City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in the AutoCAD Version being used by 
the City at the time of completion of the work. This condition shall be met prior to 
the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, 
whichever occurs first.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 83 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The 
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of 
Public Works or designee as specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 
of the Stormwater Management and Discharge Control ordinance and the San 
Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Program Technical 
Guidance.  The agreement shall outline the continuous operation and 
maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment facilities 
including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County 
Recorder’s Office.  This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy 
of the building.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 84 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the 
applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete of the 
roadways anticipated to be damaged as a result of construction activities within 
the general area of the project or along the designated haul route. If the street 
abutting the property has been classified as being in a failed condition or a

--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 24 of 35
Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant will be required to 
reconstruct the street.  Limits of the roadway repair shall be Hayward Avenue for 
the entire length of the project frontage and width of the roadway.  The Director of 
Public Works or designee shall approve the roadway repair prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS)
 85 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation 
Demand Management Program has been prepared for this project (refer to the "1 
Hayward Avenue TDM Plan" report, dated March 2022) and shall be implemented 
by the applicant. A written letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis 
shall include an assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand 
Management Plan, including mode split survey results, by the end of every 
calendar year (December 31st). (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
86 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control traffic
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:
Work hours regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code shall only be permitted 
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on 
Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction work that takes 
place inside a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior 
ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines.
The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 23.06.060 of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds 
that:
(A)
The following criteria are met:
(i)
Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise
associated with the project as a whole; or

--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 25 of 35
(ii)
An emergency situation exists where the construction is necessary to correct
an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public
health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the
remaining requirements outlined below.
(B)
The exemption will not conflict with any other conditions of approval
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(C)
The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of
construction activity which may impact the area. This notification must be
provided three days prior to the start of the construction activity.
(D)
The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by an interested
member of the public.
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or 
owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and 
nature of the construction.  The waiver application must be submitted to the 
Building Official ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
(BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
87 EGRESS - Adjacent buildings/properties shall not have their required egress
restricted or compromised at any time during the construction of this project.  
(FIRE)
 88 STANDPIPES - In buildings required to have standpipes by Section 905.3.1, not less 
than one standpipe shall be provided for use during construction or demolition.  
(FIRE)
 89 DEMOLITION - Building(s) under construction or demolition shall comply with the 
California Fire Code Ch. 33 during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)
 90 ADDRESS NUMBERS - The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on 
each building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire 
access road during all phases of construction of the project.   (FIRE)

--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 26 of 35
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
91 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES - All required Tree Protection Measures shall
remain in place and properly maintained during all phases of construction.  The 
Contractor is to notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction 
operations are to be performed within the drip line of protected trees. (e.g. 
trenching, excavation, grade changes) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures 
require approval from the Project Arborist.  (PARKS AND RECREATION)
Planning Division (PA)
92 CONSTRUCTION PHASE NOISE AND VIBRATION IMPACTS - As required in the
Noise Assessment Study prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc. dated March 
25, 2022, the following measures shall be incorporated into the proposed project 
to reduce demolition and construction noise:
OPERATIONAL AND SITUATIONAL CONTROLS
(A) All work on site shall be restricted to 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM weekdays, 9:00 AM
to 5:00 PM Saturdays and 12:00 PM to 4:00 PM Sundays and Holidays, per the
requirements of the City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance.
(B) All construction noise control measures currently imposed on the project, if
any, shall be maintained unless the measures outlined herein are more restrictive.
(C) Minimize material movement along the north side of the site.
(D) Locate stockpiles adjacent to neighbors to help shield people from on-site
noise generation as much as possible.
(E) Music shall not be audible off site.
(F) Dirt berming and stockpiling materials whenever possible to help reduce noise
to sensitive receptor locations.
(G) Keep mobile equipment (haul trucks, concrete trucks, etc.) off of local streets
near residences as much as possible.
(H) Keep vehicle paths graded smooth as rough roads and paths can cause
significant noise and vibration from trucks (particularly empty trucks) rolling over
rough surfaces.
INTERIOR WORK
(I) For interior work, the windows of the interior spaces facing neighbors where
work is being performed shall be kept closed while work is proceeding.
(J) Noise generating equipment indoors shall be located within the building to
utilize building elements as noise screens.
EQUIPMENT

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 27 of 35
(K) Earth Removal: Use scrapers as much as possible for earth removal, rather
than the noisier loaders and hauling trucks.
(L) Backfilling: Use a backhoe for backfilling, as it is quieter than either dozers or
loadres.
(M) Ground Preparation: Use a motor grader rather than a bulldozer for final
grading. Utilize wheeled equipment rather than track equipment, with the
exception of work within the vibration distances shown in the above-referenced
Noise Assessment Study Table V.
(N) Building Construction: Nail guns shall be used where possible rather than
manual hammering.
(O) Generators and Compressors: Use generators, compressors and pumps that
are housed in acoustical enclosures rather than weather enclosures or none at all.
(P) Utilize temporary power service from the utility company in lieu of generators
wherever possible.
(Q) All stationary equipment shall be rated no higher than 90 dBA at 25 ft. under
the equipment's most noisy condition.
(R) Circular saws, miter/chop saws and radial arm saws shall be used no closer
than 50 ft. from any residential property line unless the saw is screened from view
by any and all residences using an air-tight screen material of at least 2.0 lbs./sq.
ft. surface weight, such as 3/4" plywood.
(S) Use electrically powered tools rather than pneumatic tools whenever possible.
(T) Use quiet or "new technology" equipment.
(U) Quiet exhaust noise by use of improved mufflers. All internal combustion
engines used at the project site shall be equipped with a type of muffler
recommended by the vehicle manufacturer.
(V) All equipment shall be in good mechanical condition so as to minimize noise
created by faulty or poorly maintained engines, drive-trains and other
components. Worn, loose or unbalanced parts or components shall be maintained
or replaced to minimize noise and vibration.
(W) Utilize wheeled equipment rather than tracked equipment.
(X) Use the lowest vibration inducing equipment when within the distance limits
shown in Table VII of the above-referenced Noise Assessment Study. Small
grading and earth moving equipment, such as "Bobcat" size equipment shall be
used. (PLANNING/BUILDING)
 93 CONSTRUCTION EMISSIONS CONTROL - As required in the Air Quality & 
Greenhouse Gas Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated 
November 4, 2021, the project shall include the following measures to minimize 
air quality impacts that may occur during construction:
(A) All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 28 of 35
areas, and unpaved access roads) shall be watered two times per day.
(B) All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be
covered.
(C) All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed
using wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry
power sweeping is prohibited.
(D) All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 miles per hour
(mph).
(E) All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved shall be completed as
soon as possible. Building pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading
unless seeding or soil binders are used.
(F) Idling times shall be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in
use or reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the
California airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California
Code of Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage shall be provided for construction
workers at all access points.
(G) All construction equipment shall be maintained and properly tuned in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications. All equipment shall be checked by
a certified mechanic and determined to be running in proper condition prior to
operation.
(H) Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact
regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and take corrective action
within 48 hours. The Air District's phone number shall also be visible to ensure
compliance with applicable regulations.
(I) All mobile construction equipment larger than 25 horsepower used at the site
shall meet U.S. EPA Tier 4 emission standards for particulate matter (PM10 and
PM2.5), if feasible, otherwise:
(1) If use of Teir 4 equipment is not available, alternatively use equipment that
meets U.S. EPA Emission standards for Tier 3 engines and include particulate
matter emissions control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel emission
control devices that altogether achieve a 40 percent reduction in particulate
matter exhaust in comparison to uncontrolled equipment; alternatively (or in
combination)
(2) Use of electrical or non-diesel fueled equipment. (PLANNING)
 94 SENSITIVE RECEPTOR EXPOSURE CONTROL - As required in the Air Quality & 
Greenhouse Gas Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated 
November 4, 2021, the project shall include the following measures to minimize 
air quality impacts that may occur during the operation of the project: 
(A) Install air filtration in the residential buildings on the project site. Air filtration

--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 29 of 35
devices shall be rated MERV13 or higher. To ensure adequate health protection to 
sensitive receptors (i.e., residents), this ventilation system, whether mechanical or 
passive, shall filter all fresh air that would be circulated into the dwelling units.
(B) The ventilation system shall be designed to keep the building at positive
pressure when doors and windows are closed to reduce the intrusion of unfiltered
outside air into the building. (PLANNING)
 95 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES - Should any potentially unique paleontological 
resources (fossils) be encountered during development activities, work shall be 
halted immediately within 50 feet of the discovery. The City of San Mateo 
Planning Division shall be immediately notified, and the applicant shall be 
responsible for retaining the services of a qualified paleontologist to determine 
the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the 
uniqueness of the find, and prepare a written report documenting the find and 
recommending further courses of action. Based on the significance of the 
discovery, the actions may include avoidance, preservation in place, excavation, 
documentation, recovery, or other appropriate measures as determined by the 
paleontologist. (PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
96 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management 
and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference.  Detailed 
information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelop
ment/construction-best-practices/  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 97 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than 
two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA 
Standards, the applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of 
Public Works or designee.  The project sponsor shall require contractors to 
prohibit trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” on residential 
streets.  A letter from the applicant detailing the proposed haul route shall be 
submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance 
of any City permits.  All material hauling activities including but not limited to, 
adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust 
control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant.  All 
storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way.  Tracking of

--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 30 of 35
dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed.  Entry and exit from the site 
shall use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant must provide an 
approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site.  Any job related dirt 
and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately.  
No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be allowed.  Use of a sweeper is 
permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum).  All material 
hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and 
conditions of approval.  Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work.
 98 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the 
sanitary sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for 
a period greater than 6 months.  Discharges for longer than 6 months must obtain 
an NPDES permit from the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain 
system.  Discharge of uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is 
permissible if the applicant can provide analytical data to support the claim.  No 
discharge to the storm drain is allowed without prior approval from the Public 
Works Department.  All discharges to the sanitary sewer (contaminated and 
uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and must comply with the 
City’s discharge limits.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 99 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best 
management practices for the installation of the Architectural Copper.  For 
detailed information please distribute the flyer to all construction personnel 
involved in the fabrication and installation of the Architectural Copper that is 
located at: 
http://flowstobay.org/files/newdevelopment/flyersfactsheets/Architecturalcopper
BMPs.pdf  (PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING)
 100 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, 
grading and construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall
be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.  Please note,
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way
after 5:00 p.m.  In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior
approvals have been granted by Public Works.  Earth haul and materials delivery
to and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site,

--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 31 of 35
shall be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m. to  5:30 p.m.  Signs 
outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations on site.  The 
signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours.  The 
sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times.  Contact the Public Works 
Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or 
modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works 
or designee finds that:
(i) The following criteria are met:
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed
to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with
the project as a whole; or
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate
design or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour.  Such a need
would be determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the
Director of Public Works or designee.
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to
public health and safety.  If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the
remaining requirements outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required
by the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of
construction activity which may impact the area.  This notification must be
provided three days prior to the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction
site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of
the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if

--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 32 of 35
the contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of 
exemption or if it is determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the 
occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are impaired because 
of the location and nature of the construction.  The waiver application must be 
submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior 
to the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water
trucks or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading
operations.  Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions
that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive
neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain
systems is not allowed.
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and
from the site.
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public
Works or designee, for any lane or sidewalk closures.  The detour plan shall
comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the most recent version of the
State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and
standard construction practices.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
 101 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a 
construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking 
in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of workers that 
will be present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate 
where sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for 
off-site material deliveries.  Said plan shall be approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with at 
all times during construction.  Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in 
suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 49 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 33 of 35
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises.
City Attorney (PA)
102 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section
27.02.210-Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of 
the conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the 
penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
 103 INDEMNIFICATION – The Applicant shall defend (with counsel approved by City), 
indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, from and against any claim, action, or proceeding 
(including without limitation any appeal or petition for review thereof) against the 
City or its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, related to an 
approval of the Project, including without limitation any related application, 
permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, other approval, 
compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and/or 
processing methods (“Challenge”).  The City may (but is not obligated to) defend 
such Challenge as the City, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate, all at 
the Applicant’s sole cost and expense.  The Applicant shall bear any and all 
losses, damages, injuries, liabilities, costs, and expenses (including, without 
limitation, staff time and in-house attorney fees on a fully-loaded basis, attorney 
fees for outside legal counsel, expert witness fees, court costs, and other 
litigation expenses) arising out of or related to any Challenge (“Costs”), whether 
incurred by the Applicant, City, or awarded to any third party, and shall pay to the 
City upon demand any Costs incurred by the City.  No modification of the Project, 
any application, permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, 
other approval, change in applicable laws and regulations, or change in 
processing methods shall alter the Applicant’s indemnity obligation.  Per 
Government Code Section 66474.9, the Applicant’s indemnification obligation with 
respect to any Challenge concerning a subdivision (tentative, parcel, or final map 
application or approval) shall be limited to actions brought within the time period 
provided for in Government Code Section 66499.37, unless such time period is 
extended for any reason.  The City shall promptly notify the Applicant of any such 
claim, action, or proceeding, and shall cooperate fully in the defense. (CITY 
ATTORNEY)
Planning Division (PA)

--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 34 of 35
 104 SENSITIVE RECEPTOR EXPOSURE CONTROL - As required in the Air Quality & 
Greenhouse Gas Assessment prepared by Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc. dated 
November 4, 2021, the project shall include the following documents to ensure 
that the receptor exposure reduction measures are implemented and maintained 
for the life of the project:
(A) An ongoing maintenance plan for the buildings' heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning (HVAC) air filtration system shall be required that includes regular
filter replacement.
(B) A use agreement and other property documents that require:
(1) Cleaning, maintenance, and monitoring of the affected buildings for air flow
leaks,
(2) Assurance that new owners or tenants are provided information on the
ventilation system, and including provisions that fees associated with owning or
leasing a unit(s) in the building include funds for cleaning, maintenance,
monitoring, and replacements of the filters, as needed. (PLANNING)
 105 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES - All 
physical improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the 
approved planning application shall substantially conform at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises with the approved 
planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application 
shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether 
the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
106 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS- Exterior security lighting in compliance with the
Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall 
comply with the requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a 
minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 
average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright white” 
light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering

--- page 51 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2019-045, 1 Hayward Ave., SPAR+SDPA
As Approved on 
Page 35 of 35
index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved.  This lighting standard is 
applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, and grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so 
designed as to limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source 
from view from off site.  (POLICE)
 107 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE – 
(a) The applicant shall install and operate for the life of the project a video
surveillance system. The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a
minimum of 30 days.  The captured video material shall be accessible to
investigating police personnel through some form of facility management during
regular business hours.  The applicant shall provide proof of registration of the
video surveillance camera system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood
Eyes Security Team web form (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx?
FID=134).
(b) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that
shall be capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at the project
completion.  Cameras viewing locations intended to allow vehicle passage into
the garages shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all
entering and exiting vehicles that use the garage and be of sufficient quality to
identify the make and model of vehicles accessing the garage, clearly read both
front and rear license plates of vehicles, and obtain clear facial recognition
through the front windshield.
(c) The building permit application plans shall show cameras placed to view
common areas of the property such as lobbies, parking garages, changes in
parking garage uses, entrances and exits to all parking garages, driveways,
circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all
buildings.  This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the
building facing out.  (POLICE)
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in
the environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of
approval. A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental
document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 52 ---
PA19-045/ 034 275 130 / 1 HAYWARD AVE / SPAR + SDPA / APRIL 2022 
 
FOR REFERENCE ONLY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 53 ---
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2022-0318- Planning Supplement\184688-A0000.dwg -  Mar 18, 2022, 1:34pm - evans
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
PROJECT:
184688
A Planning Application For:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PROJECT TEAM
DRAWING INDEX AND ISSUE DATES
COVER SHEET
ARCHITECTURAL
A0.01
PROJECT RENDERINGS
A0.10
SHADOW STUDY
A0.11
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
A0.21
GROSS FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
A0.22
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
A0.23
PARCEL COVERAGE
A0.24
USABLE OPEN SPACE AREA PLANS
A0.25
OCCUPANT EXITING PLANS
A1.01
SITE  PLAN
A2.10
BELOW GRADE PARKING LEVEL PLAN
A2.11
FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL PLANS
A2.12
THIRD AND FOURTH LEVEL PLANS
A2.31
ROOF PLAN
A3.01
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.02
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
A3.03
STREET CONTEXT ELEVATIONS
A4.01
BUILDING SECTIONS
L0.01
COVER SHEET
L1.01
LANDSCAPE CONSTRUCTION PLAN
L2.01 
DETAILS AND IMAGES
L3.01
PLANTING PLAN
L4.01
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN
SU-1
BOUNDARY AND TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C1.01
NOTES LEGENDS & ABBREVIATIONS
C2.01
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C3.01
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C3.02
DRIVEWAY SIGHT TRIANGLE
C4.01
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C5.01
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C6.01
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C7.01
PRELIMINARY EROSION CONTROL PLAN
C7.02
EROSION CONTROL NOTES AND DETAILS
C7.03
SAN MATEO COUNTY CONSTRUCTION
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
C8.01
DETAILS
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
THIS IS A NEW 4-STORY MIXED-USE  BUILDING WITH ONE STORY OF SUBTERRANEAN PARKING.  THE GROUND FLOOR
LEVEL WILL BE A BUSINESS OCCUPANCY, AND THE THREE UPPER FLOORS WILL HAVE 18 RENTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS
(THREE JUNIOR ONE BEDROOMS AND 15 ONE BEDROOMS). SCOPE OF WORK SHALL INCLUDE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
BUILDING SHELL AND CORE AS WELL AS SITE IMPROVEMENTS SUCH AS SIDEWALKS, CURB/GUTTER, BICYCLE RACKS, ETC.
ISSUE DATES AND DESCRIPTIONS
10.03.2019  
PLANNING APP.
02.10.2020
RESUBMITTAL I
06.12.2020
RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
RESUBMITTAL V
03.18.2022
SUPPLEMENT
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 2)
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRIC CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 3)
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 4)
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE  (CCR TITLE 24, PART 5)
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 6)
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 9)
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (CCR TITLE 24, PART 11)
ALL CODES ARE SUBJECT TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT AMENDMENTS PER CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION
BULLETIN 10-03.
APPLICABLE CODES
PRELIMINARY OR PRICING PLANS
FIRST FORMAL SUBMITTAL OR NO CHANGES
SINCE PREVIOUS ISSUE
MODIFICATIONS SINCE PREVIOUS ISSUE
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT:
JETT LANDSCAPE AND ARCHITECURE
2 Theatre Square Ste 218
Orinda, CA 94563
925.254.5422
Bruce Jett
brucej@jett.land
OWNER:
ONE HAYWARD AVENUE LLC.
702 Marshall St. Ste 322
Redwood City, CA 94063
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ARCHITECT:
ARC TEC INC.
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA 95110
408.496.0676
Douglas Oliver
doliver@arctecinc.com
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
CIVIL
ENGINEER:
BKF ENIGEERS
150 California Street, Suite 600
San Francisco, CA 94111
415.660.6360
Mike O’Connell
moconnell@bkf.com
9TH AVE
S EL CAMINO REAL
SITE
PROJECT ADDRESS: 1 HAYWARD AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94402
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NO.:
APN 034-275-130
ZONING:
              E2-1/R-4 EXECUTIVE OFFICE WITH RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY
SITE AREA:
±12,820 S.F. / .29 ACRES
OCCUPANCY:
B, R-2, S-2
MAX. ALLOWABLE AREA / MAX. F.A.R. :
   25,640 S.F. / 2.0
PROPOSED F.A.R. (SEE A0.22 FOR CALCULATION):
                 23,275 / 12,820 = 1.82
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT:
              40'-0"/55' IF LOT DEEPER THAN 100'
PROPOSED HEIGHT:
        44'-8"
ALLOWED DENSITY:  12,280 S.F. / 1,000 S.F. (27.26.040)
12 UNITS
PROPOSED STATE DENSITY BONUS PROVIDING 16% VERY LOW BMR UNITS = 12 UNIT X 1.5 = 
  18 UNITS
PARCEL COVERAGE ALLOWABLE (MAXIMUM):
           80%
PARCEL COVERAGE PROVIDED  (SEE A0.23 FOR CALCULATION):
        3,260 / 12,820 = 75%
USABLE OPEN SPACE REQUIRED (80 S.F. X 18 UNITS) :
          1,440 S.F.
USABLE OPEN SPACE PROVIDED  (SEE A0.24 FOR CALCULATION):
       2,550 S.F.
ALLOWABLE AREA AND HEIGHT CALCULATION                                                                                                                                
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION    
 VA
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER CONFIGURATION:
YES
(BUILDINGS TWO OR MORE STORIES ABOVE GRADE PLANE EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT WITH AN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 903.3.1.1)
ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF FLOORS: 
4
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA:
36,000 S.F.
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT
60' (IF BUILDING SPRINKLERED)
FIRE RESISTANCE RATING OF EXTERIOR WALLS, SHAFTS, BEARING WALLS
AND FLOOR/CEILING ASSEMBLY, PARAPETS: 
1HR
REQUIRED SEPARATION OF OCCUPANCIES                                                                                            
                                     
PER CBC TABLE 508.4 , THE REQUIRED SEPARATION OF BUILDING OCCUPANCIES (B, R-2, S-2) IS ONE HOUR BETWEEN
EACH OCCUPANCY
PROJECT DATA                                                       .
ARAGON BLVD
HAYWARD AVE
NOTRE DAME AVE
10TH AVE
11TH AVE
12TH AVE
13TH AVE
14TH AVE
15TH AVE
16TH AVE
17TH AVE
5TH AVE
SEVILLE WAY
AVILA RD
HOBART AVE
LAUREL AVE
PALM AVE
82
82
MAPLE ST
B ST
BARNESON AVE
BICYCLE PARKING REQUIRED:   PER SAN MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE, 27.64.262
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING
ONE BEDROOM
.05 SHORT-TERM SPACE / UNIT REQUIRED
18 UNITS = (.9) 1 SPACE
1 LONG-TERM SPACE / UNIT REQUIRED
18 UNITS = (18) 18 SPACES
OFFICE
1 SHORT-TERM SPACE PER 20,000 S.F. REQUIRED
 4,650 S.F. / 20,000 S.F. = (.23) 1 SPACE
1 LONG-TERM SPACE PER 10,000 S.F. REQUIRED
4,650 S.F. / 10,000 S.F. = (.47) 1 SPACE
BICYCLE PARKING PROVIDED:
   RESIDENTIAL: 
2 SHORT TERM, 18 LONG TERM
   OFFICE: 
2 SHORT TERM, 1 LONG TERM
PROJECT DATA                                                       .
PLUMBING FIXTURE TABULATIONS                      .
GROUP B BUSINESS NET AREA:  4,397 S.F.*
* NET AREA IS FLOOR AREA LESS ACCESSORY AREAS (HALLWAYS, STAIRWAYS, STORAGE ROOMS, COPY ROOMS
AND RESTROOMS)
4,397 S.F / 200 S.F. PER PERSON  = 22 PERSONS: 11 MEN / 11 WOMEN
SINCE OCCUPANT LOAD IS LESS THAN 50, THE REQUIRED URINAL CAN BE OMITTED.
MEN'S FIXTURES 
REQUIRED:
PROVIDED:
WOMEN'S FIXTURES
REQUIRED:
PROVIDED:
WATER CLOSETS: 
1
1
WATER CLOSETS
1
1
URINALS: 
0
0
LAVATORIES:
1
1
LAVATORIES: 
1
1
DRINKING FOUNTAINS 
REQUIRED:
PROVIDED
MOP/SERVICE SINK
REQUIRED:
PROVIDED:
 
1
1
1
1
PLEASE NOTE: OFFICE RESTROOMS SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY.   LOCATION WILL DEPEND ON FUTURE
TENANT.
PHONE:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
TRASH
MANAGEMENT:
AMERICAN TRASH
1900 Powell Street, Suite 890
Emeryville, CA 94608
800.488.7274
Scott Brown
sbrown@trashmanage.com

--- page 54 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\184688-Shadow Study.dwg -  Jan 22, 2021, 2:05pm - doliver
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
SCALE: 
FALL EQUNOX, SEPTEMBER 21, 3P
NTS
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE, JUNE 21, 3P
NTS
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE, DECEMBER 21, 3P
NTS
SCALE: 
FALL EQUNOX, SEPTEMBER 21, NOON
NTS
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE, JUNE 21, NOON
NTS
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE, DECEMBER 21, NOON
NTS
SCALE: 
FALL EQUNOX, SEPTEMBER 21, 9A
NTS
SCALE: 
SUMMER SOLSTICE, JUNE 21, 9A
NTS
SCALE: 
WINTER SOLSTICE, DECEMBER 21, 9A
NTS
A0.10
SHADOW STUDY
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING
EXISTING
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
OPEN SPACE / POOL
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 55 ---
A0.01
PROJECT RENDERINGS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A001.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 12:55pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
4
3
2
SCALE: 
KEY MAP
1
NTS
SCALE: 
VIEW FROM INTERSECTION LOOKING NW
2
NTS
SCALE: 
VIEW FROM HAYWARD AVENUE LOOKING NORTH
4
NTS
SCALE: 
AERIAL VIEW OF REAR COURTYARD LOOKING NW
3
NTS
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 56 ---
A0.11
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
SCALE: 
REFERENCE SITE PLAN
NTS
CORNER OF 9TH & ECR, NEW 4 STORY BUILDING COMING SOON
9
8
6
4
SITE, 1 STORY COMMERCIAL USE BUILDINGS
SITE FROM ACROSS INTERSECTION
3 STORY MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING
2 STORY COMMERCIAL BUILDING
10
7
4 STORY SENIOR HOUSING BUILDING
TWO STORY CIVIC AND RELIGIOUS CENTER
11
2
4 STORY SENIOR HOUSING AND 3 STORY MULTI-FAMILY
4 STORY MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING
12
1
SITE AND 3 STORY MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A011.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 12:56pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
5
3
12
10
11
9
8
6
1
3
2
5
4
7
3 STORY AND 2 STORY MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING
VIEW LOOKING SOUTH FROM HAYWARD AVE

--- page 57 ---
BICYCLE STORAGE
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
OPEN OFFICE 4,355 S.F.
SQUARE FOOTAGE OF "OPEN
OFFICE" PLUS SHARED BUILDING
LOBBY  USED TO CALCULATE THE
REQUIRED OFFICE PARKING
(4,365 S.F. + 250 S.F. = 4,615 S.F.)
4,615/ 355 S.F.*= 13 STALLS
*STATE DENSITY BONUS
REQUEST- SEE LETTER)
ABOVE GRADE PARKING
INCLUDED IN FAR
600 S.F.
990 S.F.
270 S.F.
390
S.F.
205 S.F.
90
S.F.
130 S.F.
GROUND LEVEL STAIR
INCLUDED IN FAR
GROUND LEVEL STAIR
INCLUDED IN FAR
155
S.F.
GROUND LEVEL ELEVATOR
INCLUDED IN FAR
130
S.F.
TOTAL GROSS BUILDING AREA:
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
OFF/RES. SHARED 
RES SHARED
COVERED WALK 
PARKING
TOTAL
BASEMENT LEVEL
0 S.F.
0 S.F.
1,355 S.F.
0 S.F.
0 S.F.
8,520 S.F
9,875 S.F.
FIRST LEVEL
4,495 S.F.
0 S.F.
870 S.F.
750 S.F.
0 S.F.
990 S.F.
7,105 S.F.
SECOND LEVEL
0 S.F.
5,305 S.F.
0 S.F.
845 S.F.
840 S.F.
0 S.F.  
6,990 S.F.
THIRD LEVEL
0 S.F.
5,005 S.F.
0 S.F.
845 S.F.
840 S.F.
0 S.F.
6,690 S.F.
FOURTH LEVEL
0 S.F.
5,005 S.F.
0 S.F.
845 S.F.
840 S.F.
0 S.F.  
6,690 S.F.
TOTAL
4,495 S.F.
15,315 S.F.
2,225 S.F.
3,285 S.F.
2,520 S.F.
9,510 S.F.
37,350 S.F.
TOTAL GROSS BUILDING AREA = 37,350 S.F.
SEE A0.22 FOR AREAS INCLUDED IN FAR
OFFICE
RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE / RESIDENTIAL SHARED
RESIDENTIAL SHARED
PARKING
COVERED WALKWAY
DN
RESIDENTIAL BALCONY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
888 S.F.
840 S.F.
265 S.F.
90 S.F.
300 S.F.
850 S.F.
190
S.F.
235
S.F.
3,920 S.F.
W/D
RESIDENTIAL BALCONY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
267 S.F.
90 S.F.
285 S.F.
75 S.F.
75 S.F.
75 S.F.
3,855 S.F.
75 S.F.
RESIDENTIAL BALCONY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
RESIDENTIAL BALCONY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
840 S.F.
265 S.F.
90 S.F.
300 S.F.
850 S.F.
190
S.F.
235
S.F.
3,920 S.F.
RESIDENTIAL BALCONY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAY
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
840 S.F.
265 S.F.
90 S.F.
300 S.F.
850 S.F.
190
S.F.
235
S.F.
3,920 S.F.
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
UP
UP
UP
2%
COMPACT
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
EV CAPABLE
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
VAN
UP
EV CAPABLE
NO
PARKING
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
FLOOR AREA
COUNTED ON
FIRST FLOOR
8,520 S.F.
775 S.F.
580 S.F.
ALL AREAS OF BASEMENT
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
ALL AREAS OF BASEMENT
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
ALL AREAS OF BASEMENT
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
ALL AREAS OF BASEMENT
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
SCALE: 
THIRD FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FIRST FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
A0.21
GROSS FLOOR AREA
CALCULATIONS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A021.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 12:59pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
SECOND FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FOURTH FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
BELOW GRADE PARKING LEVEL AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 58 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
BICYCLE STORAGE NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
BUILDING
AREA
 7,375 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RATIO*
FIRST FLOOR
7,375 SQ. FT.
SECOND FLOOR
5,300 SQ. FT.
THIRD FLOOR
5,300 SQ. FT.
FOURTH FLOOR
5,300 SQ. FT.
TOTAL:
23,275 SQ. FT.
TOTAL FLOOR AREA:
23,275 SQ. FT.
FAR (23,275 SQ. FT. / 12,820 SQ. FT.) 
1.82
*PER San Mateo Municipal Code 27.04.200
(a)   Definitions.
(1)     Floor Area. Floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of
all principal and accessory buildings and above grade covered parking on a
zoning plot.
(2) (b) Measurement, other than single-family dwellings in r1 zoning
districts.
(1) Floor area is measured from the exterior façade of the building’s wall
planes, from the centerline of party walls, or from a line three feet from the
edge of an eave, whichever produces the largest floor area. Stories
exceeding 15 feet in height shall be counted as additional floor area, with
the exception that ground floor retail may be up to 18 feet in height
measured from first finish floor to second finish floor before being counted
as additional floor area. Floor area also includes all accessory structures on
the site and basements that meet the definition in subsection (c)(5).
(2) Exclusions. The following are not counted as floor area:
(A) Covered or open courts, and atriums, on the ground floor, provided
that the area is not used as dwelling, office, retailing, or required access;
(B) In multiple-level buildings, covered courts, if the retailing uses are
open to the public. Multiple-level stairwells and elevators shall be
counted only as ground floor area;
(C) Covered walkways and balconies;
(D) First floors, mechanical areas, penthouse, and top floors are counted
only once as floor area, regardless of height;
(E) Bicycle parking facilities;
(F) Floor area designated for day care centers accessory to and intended
to serve a multi-family, commercial, office or manufacturing use. Such
floor area may be located within the primary structure or may be in a
freestanding structure accessory to the primary structure;
DN
UP
DN
RESIDENTIAL BALCONIES NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAYS NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
BUILDING AREA
5,300 SQ. FT.
UP
DN
DN
UP
RESIDENTIAL BALCONIES NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
RESIDENTIAL BALCONIES NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAYS NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
BUILDING AREA
5,300 SQ. FT.
UP
DN
DN
UP
RESIDENTIAL BALCONIES NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
COVERED WALKWAYS NOT
INCLUDED IN FAR
BUILDING AREA
5,300 SQ. FT.
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL ELEV. SHAFT
 NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
UPPER LEVEL STAIR
NOT INCLUDED IN FAR
SCALE: 
THIRD FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FIRST FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
A0.22
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A022.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:00pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
SECOND FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FOURTH FLOOR AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 59 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
RAMP TO
PARKING BELOW
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
OFFICE
LOBBY
15'-10"
10'-1"
13'-2"
GROUND LEVEL OPEN
PARCEL AREA
3,050 S.F.
10'-1"
20'-11"
11'-0"
GROUND LEVEL
OPEN PARCEL AREA
210 S.F.
SCALE: 
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
1" = 10'-0"
0
10
20
30
5
50
70
PARCEL COVERAGE                                                             .
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A023.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:02pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
A0.23
PARCEL COVERAGE
PER SMMC 27.48.065 PARCEL COVERAGE
  A MINIMUM OF 20 PERCENT AT-GRADE OPEN SPACE SHALL BE PROVIDED ON THE PARCEL, EXCEPT IN THE /R
OVERLAY DISTRICT WHERE 10% MINIMUM AT-GRADE OPEN SPACE IS REQUIRED. OPEN SPACE SHALL CONTAIN
LANDSCAPING AND/OR DECORATIVE OUTDOOR LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS, WATER FEATURES, PAVED OR DECORATED
SURFACES OF ROCK, STONE, BRICK OR OTHER SIMILAR MATERIAL (EXCLUDING DRIVEWAYS, PARKING, LOADING, OR
STORAGE AREAS), AND SCULPTURAL ELEMENTS
REQUIRED 20% SITE AREA (12,820 S.F. X .2 ) =
2,564 S.F.
PROVIDED:
3,260 S.F.

--- page 60 ---
USABLE OPEN SPACE CALCULATIONS
PER SMMC 27.29.114 USEABLE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
(a)
  THE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS DISTRICT ARE IN ADDITION TO OPEN
SPACE REQUIREMENTS RESULTING FROM THE APPROVAL AND FILING OF A SUBDIVISION
MAP, OR OPEN SPACE AS IMPOSED ON A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT IN ACCORD WITH THE
CITY’S GENERAL PLAN OR ANY REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS OR
DRIVEWAYS. OPEN SPACE REQUIRED BY THIS SECTION IS INTENDED TO BE FOR THE USE AND
ENJOYMENT OF THE RESIDENTS OF THE DEVELOPMENT.
(b)
  EACH DWELLING UNIT SHALL BE PROVIDED WITH THE FOLLOWING:
(1)
    NOT LESS THAN EIGHTY (80) SQUARE FEET PER DWELLING UNIT OF PRIVATE
USABLE OPEN SPACE DIRECTLY ACCESSIBLE TO EACH UNIT PROVIDED THAT NO SINGLE
CREDITABLE PRIVATE USABLE OPEN SPACE SHALL BE LESS THAN SEVENTY-FIVE (75)
SQUARE FEET OR HAVE A DIMENSION OF AT LEAST SIX (6) FEET IN EACH DIRECTION, OR
(2)
    150 PERCENT OF THE PRIVATE USABLE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT IN
COMMON USABLE OPEN SPACES PROVIDED THAT NO CREDITABLE COMMON USABLE OPEN
SPACE SHALL BE LESS THAN 300 SQUARE FEET WITH A DIMENSION NOT LESS THAN FIFTEEN
(15) FEET IN EACH DIRECTION, OR
(3)
    A PROPORTIONAL COMBINATION OF BOTH OF THE ABOVE.
REQUIRED OPEN SPACE: 18 UNITS X 80 S.F. = 
1,440 S.F.
7 RESIDENTIAL UNITS HAVE PRIVATE OPEN SPACE MEETING THE ABOVE REQUIREMENTS:
PROVIDED PRIVATE OPEN SPACE  (BALCONIES 1-7):     
  900  S.F.
11 UNITS REQUIRE COMMON OPEN SPACE (11 X (80 S.F. X 1.5))=  1,320 S.F.
PROVIDED COMMON OPEN SPACE  (GROUND FLOOR)=
1,650 S.F.
TOTAL REQUIRED OPEN SPACE MEET THROUGH COMBINATION OF PRIVATE AND COMMON
OPEN SPACE.
TOTAL PROVIDED OPEN SPACE PRIVATE + COMMON = 
2,550 S.F.
OPEN SPACE LEGEND
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
COMMON OPEN
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
RAMP TO
PARKING BELOW
16'-1"
GROUND LEVEL OPEN
PARCEL AREA
1,650 S.F.
DN
UP
DN
7
PRIVATE OPEN
AREA
180 S.F.
UP
DN
DN
UP
7'-10"
PRIVATE OPEN
AREA
210 S.F.
10'-5"
7'-3"
PRIVATE OPEN  AREA
75 S.F.
PRIVATE OPEN  AREA
75 S.F.
PRIVATE OPEN  AREA
75 S.F.
PRIVATE OPEN  AREA
75 S.F.
1
2
3
4
5
UP
DN
DN
UP
6
PRIVATE OPEN
AREA
210 S.F.
A0.24
USABLE OPEN SPACE
AREA PLANS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A024.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:03pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
THIRD FLOOR OPEN SPACE AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
SITE / FIRST FLOOR OPEN SPACE AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
SECOND FLOOR OPEN SPACE AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
FOURTH FLOOR OPEN SPACE AREA PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 61 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
RAMP TO
PARKING BELOW
10
1 :
S.F.
TRASH
B
244
300
1
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE A
B
2,949
150
20
72
14.4
34
16
10
1 :
S.F.
OPEN
OFFICE B
B
1,448
150
10
1 :
S.F.
OUTDOOR
PATIO
A
1,364
15
91
10
23
17
23
23
4.6
34
-
-
34
-
-
34
50
10
68
50
1 :
S.F.
BIKE
STORAGE
B
155
300
1
1 :
S.F.
LOBBY
B
248
150
2
1 :
S.F.
LOBBY
B
267
150
2
3
72
71
14.2
34
71
10'-1"
10'-1"
4'-0"
1 :
S.F.
FIRE
CONTROL
B
244
300
1
UP
DN
DN
UP
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
790
200
4
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
640
200
4
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
935
200
5
1 :
S.F.
CORRIDOR
R-2
999
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
17
3.4
34
16
4.8
48
16
17
17
5.1
48
DN
UP
DN
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
640
200
4
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
935
200
5
1 :
S.F.
CORRIDOR
R-2
995
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
790
200
4
1 :
S.F.
RESIDENTIAL
UNIT
R-2
835
200
5
17
3.4
34
16
4.8
48
17
5.1
48
16
17
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
UP
UP
UP
2%
COMPACT
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
EV CAPABLE
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
VAN
UP
EV CAPABLE
NO
PARKING
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
1 :
S.F.
ELEC.
ROOM
R-2
214
300
1
1 :
S.F.
ELEC.
ROOM
R-2
225
300
1
1 :
S.F.
ELEC.
ROOM
R-2
102
300
1
1 :
S.F.
PARKING
AREA
S-2
8323
200
42
23
6.9
48
23
6.9
44
1 :
S.F.
ELEV.
MACHINE
R-2
214
300
1
23
23
A0.25
OCCUPANT EXITING
PLANS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A025.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:05pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
SITE / FIRST FLOOR LEVEL OCCUPANT EXITING PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
SECOND/THIRD LEVEL OCCUPANT EXITING PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
BELOW GRADE PARKING LEVEL OCCUPANT EXITING PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
2-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
1-HOUR RATED FIRE SEPARATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS
OCCUPANT LOAD
FIRE EXTINGUISHER
BRACKET-MOUNTED
SYMBOL KEY
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION OF THE SPACE
SQUARE FOOTAGE
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED
EXIT WIDTH PROVIDED
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
STAIR WIDTH REQUIRED (INCHES)
STAIR WIDTH PROVIDED (INCHES)
EXIT IN ONE DIRECTION
EXIT IN BOTH DIRECTIONS
SIGN FACE DIRECTION
F.E
AREA OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
DOORWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
STAIRWAY OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
PATH OF TRAVEL DESIGNATION
DIRECTION OF EGRESS/OCCUPANT LOAD DESIGNATION
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND FIRE HOSES
EXIT SIGNAGE DESIGNATION
RATED SEPARATION DESIGNATION
F.E.C.
F.E.C.
100
30.0
60
100
20.0
34
25
1 :
S.F.
ROOM NAME
B
12,444
100
-
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
EXITING WIDTH TABULATIONS                                 .
EXIT WIDTH REQUIRED IS 0.3" PER PERSON FOR STAIRS AND 0.2" PER DOORS AND OTHER EXIT ELEMENTS, PER CBC SECTION
1005.3.
SCALE: 
FOURTH LEVEL OCCUPANT EXITING PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 62 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
RAMP TO
PARKING BELOW
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
OFFICE
4,650 SF
UTILITY
ROOM
LOBBY
SCALE: 
GROUND LEVEL PLAN
1" = 10'-0"
0
10
20
30
5
50
70
FLOOR AREA, PARKING CALCULATION         .
A0.26
PARKING CALCULATIONS
PER SMMC 27.04.200 FLOOR AREA
(d)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING. FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
REQUIREMENTS AS CONTAINED IN CHAPTER 27.64, SHALL BE BASED ON PHYSICAL FLOOR SPACE AND SHALL NOT
INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING:
(1)
STORAGE AREAS EXCEPT FOR AREAS LOCATED WITHIN SELLING OR WORKING SPACE SUCH AS COUNTERS,
RACKS, AND CLOSETS;
(2)
UTILITY AREAS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ELEVATOR SHAFTS, TELEPHONE SWITCHING ROOMS,
STAIRWELLS, REST ROOMS, AND HEATING AND COOLING ROOMS;
(3)
ACCESSORY FACILITIES TO BE USED ONLY BY EMPLOYEES OF THE PRINCIPAL USES;
(4)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES, INCLUDING AISLES, RAMPS, AND MANEUVERING SPACE;
(5)
BASEMENT, ATTIC, OR MEZZANINE FLOOR AREA OTHER THAN AREA DEVOTED TO RETAILING ACTIVITIES, TO
THE PRODUCTION OF PROCESSING OF GOODS, OR TO BUSINESS OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICES;
(6)
FLOOR AREA DESIGNATED FOR DAY CARE CENTERS ACCESSORY TO AND INTENDED TO SERVE A
MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, OFFICE OR MANUFACTURING USE. SUCH FLOOR AREA MAY BE LOCATED WITHIN THE
PRIMARY STRUCTURE OR MAY BE IN A FREESTANDING STRUCTURE ACCESSORY TO THE PRIMARY STRUCTURE;
(7)
FLOOR AREA COMPUTED FOR BUILDING VOLUME. ADDITIONAL PARKING SHALL BE REQUIRED IN THE EVENT
OF CHANGE OF EXCLUDED FLOOR AREAS INTO USES GENERATING PARKING.
(e)
INTERPRETATION. ALL INTERPRETATIONS OF FLOOR AREA SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE REVIEW AND
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
(f)
NO CHANGE IN THE DEFINITION OR CALCULATION OF FLOOR AREA, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL EXPRESSLY STATES THAT THE CHANGE ALLOWS GREATER FLOOR AREA, SHALL BE CONSTRUED TO
AUTHORIZE AN EXPANSION OF THE ALLOWABLE FLOOR AREA OF A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, WHETHER PURSUANT
TO CHAPTER 27.72 OR OTHERWISE
PER SMMC 27.64.160 PARKING SCHEDULES GENERALLY
OFFICE REQUIRED PARKING:
   1 STALL PER 335 S.F. (4,650 S.F. X 335 ) =
13.88 STALLS
    PROVIDED:
    
             13 STALLS*
*STATE DENSITY BONUS WAIVER REQUESTED TO REDUCED REQUIRED PARKING RATIO TO 1
STALL PER 360 S.F. SEE STATE DENSITY BONUS LETTER.
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A026.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:06pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 63 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
RAMP TO
PARKING BELOW
HAYWARD AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
ADJACENT
PROPERTY
E-2
ZONING
ADJACENT
PROPERTY
R-5
ZONING
OFFICE
LOBBY
FRONT YARD
REQUESTED STATE DENSITY BONUS
INCENTIVE REQUESTED FOR
SIDE YARD BUFFER
M
W
JANITOR
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STAIR 3
20
-
1
3
5
2
1
4
12
5
5
6
5
1
1
6
6
7
10
10
8
9
7
11
11
13
2
14
REAR YARD
NO SETBACK REQUIRED
10'-1" PROVIDED
16'-0"
70'-0"
185'-1"
9'-0" SETBACK PROVIDED,
7'-6" REQD.
20'-0"
10'-6"
12'-1"
7'-9"
43'-1"
12'-2"
5'-9"
43'-3"
24'-0"
13'-1"
10'-0"
SETBACK
PROVIDED
15'
MIN
REQ'D
10'
SETBACK
REQ'D
AND
PROVIDED
10'-1"
4'-0"
7'-2"
7'-0"
Xref .\XREF\OHPRPLAN.dwg
3
A2.10
SCALE: 
BIKE RACK
NTS
3
2'-1"
2'-5"
2'-5"
EL CAMINO REAL
LANDSCAPE PARK STRIP
LANDSCAPE PARK STRIP
PROPERTY LINE
2'-0"
2'-5"
2'-5"
SCALE: 
SITE PLAN
1" = 10'-0"
0
10
20
30
5
50
70
KEYNOTES                                                                .
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A101.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:08pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
A1.01
SITE PLAN
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
1
CENTERLINE OF PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
2
EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT
3
4
LONG TERM RESIDENTIAL BIKE STORAGE
5
HARDSCAPE; REFER TO CIVIL AND LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
6
7
9
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING - WELLE CIRCULAR RACK MODEL WCRO2-IG; SEE DETAIL 3/-
10
WASTE / RECYCLE STORAGE ROOM
WASTE / RECYCLE COLLECTION SERVICE LOCATION
8
NEW 6' HIGH FENCE WITH MAN GATE, SEE A3.03 FOR MORE INFORMATION.
LANDSCAPE AREA; REFER TO CIVIL AND LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS
11
END OF EXISTING 54" HIGH WALL ON ADJACENT PROPERTY
12
PRELIMINARY LOCATION OF POTENTIAL PUBLIC ART
SCALE: 
20
ENLARGED SHORT TEMP BIKE PARKING
1/4" = 1'-0"
13
UNDERGROUND TRANSFORMER VAULT
14
TRASH STAGING AREA WITH 3' TALL SCREENING LANDSCAPE WALL

--- page 64 ---
2
A4.01
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
UP
UP
UP
2%
COMPACT
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
EV CAPABLE
COMPACT
EV CAPABLE
VAN
UP
EV CAPABLE
NO
PARKING
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
COMPACT
3
TYP.
2
TYP.
1
TYP.
12
7
8
3
TYP.
165'-11"
1'-0"
18'-2"
62'-0"
2'-6"
5'-6"
34'-0"
1'-0"
109'-7"
22'-4"
16'-11"
2'-7"
28'-0"
10'-4"
10'-8"
3
TYP.
7
10
1
TYP.
3
TYP.
1
TYP.
1
TYP.
4
SECURED
RESIDENTIAL
TENANT PARKING
OFFICE AND AFTER
HOUR GUEST
PARKING
1
A4.01
ELEC. ROOM
ELEV
MACHINE
ROOM
17'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
12
A2.10
MEP
MEP
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
10
11
8'-6"
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
RESIDENT
8'-6"
STANDARD
RESIDENT
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
RESIDENT
4'-6"
8'-6"
STANDARD
 OFFICE
8'-0"
COMPACT
OFFICE
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
OFFICE
12'-0"
EV VAN
OFFICE
5'-0"
9'-0"*
END COMPACT
OFFICE
4'-8"
10'-0"
CONFINED
STANDARD
RESIDENT
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
RESIDENT
8'-6"
STANDARD EV
RESIDENT
5'-0"
12'-0"
EV VAN
RESIDENT
4'-6"
8'-6"
STANDARD
OFFICE
8'-0"
COMPACT
OFFICE
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
OFFICE
1'-6"
5'-0"
12'-0"
VAN
OFFICE
10'-0"
CONFINED
STANDARD
OFFICE
11'-0"
14'-7"
10'-6"
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
EV
CAPABLE
COMPACT
OFFICE
8'-6"*
RESTRICTED
COMPACT
OFFICE
12
6
26'-0"
9'-0"*
END COMPACT
OFFICE
9'-0"*
END COMPACT
OFFICE
3'-0"
9'-0"*
END COMPACT
OFFICE
5
5
SCALE: 
DERO DUPLEX
LONG-TERM BICYCLE PARKING
1/4" = 1'-0"
6
FRONT ELEVATION
SIDE ELEVATION
DERO 'DUPLEX' WITH SPACE FOR
TWO STACKED BICYCLES EACH RACK
BICYCLES CAN BE LOCKED TO BIKE
RACK WITH U-TYPE LOCK
12'-8"
5'-0"
5'-0"
SCALE: 
ENLARGED RESIDENTIAL
LONG-TERM BICYCLE PARKING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
DERO 'DUPLEX' WITH SPACE FOR
TWO STACKED BICYCLES EACH
RACK. SEE 6/A2.10.
6'-0"
OFFICE BIKE CLOSET WITH
PROGRAMMABLE LOCK
ELEVATOR
MACHINE ROOM
3'-6"
6'-1"
SCALE: 
ENLARGED OFFICE
LONG-TERM BICYCLE PARKING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
12
A2.10
BELOW GRADE PARKING
LEVEL PLAN
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A210.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:08pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
PARKING ANALYSIS
PARKING PROVIDED: (27.64.100):
COMMERCIAL: 4,650 S.F. (1 / 360 S.F.*) =
           13 SPACES*
RESIDENTIAL: 18 BEDROOMS (.5 SPACES PER BEDROOM ) 
9 SPACES
TOTAL PARKING SPACES
22 SPACES**
*DENSITY BONUS WAIVER REQUESTED:  MODIFY COMMERCIAL PARKING RATIO FROM 1
STALL PER 335 S.F. TO 1 STALL PER 360 S.F.- SEE STATE DENSITY BONUS LETTER
**DENSITY BONUS WAIVER REQUESTED: 66% (15) VARIOUS SIZED "COMPACT" SPACES
PROVIDED, WHILE 30% ALLOWED PER SMMC 27.64.  - SEE STATE DENSITY BONUS LETTER
EV CAPABLE & EVSE INSTALLED SPACES:
COMMERCIAL: 10% EV CAPABLE PLUS 5% EVE INSTALLED REQUIRED
   (13 X .15= 1.95). ALL SPACES PROVIDED WILL BE EVSE INSTALLED 
2 SPACES
RESIDENTIAL: 15% EV CAPABLE REQUIRED
  (9 X. .15 = 1.35 )  
2 SPACES
TOTAL EV CAPABLE AND EVSE INSTALLED REQIRED
4 SPACES
PER CBC CHAPTER 11B, TABLE 11B-228.3.2.1, MINIMUM NUMBER OF EVCS REQUIRED TO
COMPLY WITH SECTION 11B-812:
PROVIDED: 4 TOTAL SPACES; ONE VAN, TWO 8'-6"X18' STALLS, ONE 10'-0" X18' STALLS
CONCRETE COLUMN
1
KEYNOTES                               
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE WALLS
2
3
4
5
CONCRETE RAMP
CONCRETE CURB
6
PROPERTY LINE
LONG-TERM SECURE OFFICE BICYCLE PARKING CLOSET; SEE DETAIL 12/A2.10
AUTOMOBILE PARKING STALL DIMENSIONS
(SECTION 27.64.120 & PW PARKING STANDARDS SPECIFICATIONS)
STALL TYPE
WIDTH
DEPTH
AISLE
STANDARD
8'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
COMPACT
8'-0"
17'-0"
22'-8"
RESTRICTED STALL STANDARD
9'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
RESTRICTED STALL COMPACT
8'-0"*
17'-0"*
22'-8"*
END STALL STANDARD
10'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
END STALL COMPACT
9'-0"**
17'-0"**
22'-8"**
CONFINED STALL STANDARD
10'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
CONFINED STALL COMPACT
9'-0"**
17'-0"**
22'-8"**
* 8'-6" X 18' WITH 24' AISLE PROVIDED
**9'-0" X 18' WITH 24' AISLE PROVIDED
ELECTRONICALLY OPERATED SLIDING GATE AND FENCE ENCLOSURE FOR
SECURE PARKING
7
ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL PER CBC 11B-402, SHOWN DASHED
8
NOT USED
9
1-25
1
YES
COMPLIANT
MINIMUM
REQUIRED
TOTAL PARKING
SPACES
REQUIRED NUMBER OF ACCESSIBLE
PARKING STALLS (CBC TABLE 11B-208.2)
WALL MOUNTED EV CHARGER
10
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED,  PARKING STALLS ARE 18' LONG
SCALE: 
BELOW GRADE PARKING LEVEL PLAN
1" = 8'-0"
TOTAL EVCS
VAN
STANDARD  AMBULATORY
1- 4
1
0
0
MAN DOOR IN FENCE.  WILL SWING IN EITHER DIRECTION WHEN FIRE ALARM
TIGGERED
11
C3 WATER PUMP 5'X5' CLEARANCE REQUIRED
12
PROVIDED; TWO VAN ACCESSIBLE SPACES

--- page 65 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
2
3
3
2
1
2
3
1
1
15
1
5
5
5
2
2
5
3
OPEN OFFICE
AREA
LOBBY
MAIL
CENTER
TRASH /
RECYCLING
STAIR #1
STAIR #3
1
A3.01
1
A3.02
2
A3.01
2
A3.02
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
4
TYP.
5
3
A2.10
1'-7"
1'-6"
5'-8"
10'-6"
10'-1"
10'-0"
16'-6"
15'-10"
FIRE
CONTROL
ROOM
STAIR #2
M
11'-5"
4'-0"
7'-3"
9'-6"
13'-1"
5'-8"
32'-4"
4'-0"
26'-0"
4'-0"
32'-0"
5'-8"
5'-9"
38'-10"
102'-2"
9
44'-5"
28'-0"
10'-4"
412"
412"
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
15'-0"
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
7'-6"
LINE OF REQUIRED
SETBACK 10'-0"
9'-0"
JANITOR
PACKAGE
STORAGE
W
3
MECH
1
A3.01
UP
DN
DN
UP
7
8
12
12
12
11
11
1
2
7
8
2
7
8
2
7
8
1
2
1
1
1
5
26'-6"
18'-5"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
13'-1"
20'-8"
38'-11"
10'-6"
13'-3"
10'-4"
9'-6"
10'-1"
2
1
1
7
4
TYP.
7
1
2
8'-1"
STAIR #1
STAIR #3
OPEN
CORRIDOR
1
A3.02
2
A3.01
2
A3.02
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
8
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
BATH
LIVING ROOM
BATH
OFFICE NOOK
OFFICE
NOOK
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
DINING ROOM
BATH
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
2'-2"
BATH
BEDROOM
11'-1"
9'-10"
14'-0"
9'-10"
14'-0"
7'-0"
4'-2"
16'-6"
13'-6"
6'-9"
REQUESTED STATE DENSITY BONUS
REDUCTION REQUESTED FOR
SIDE YARD BUFFER
14'-9"
1'-6"
7
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
15'-0"
LINE OF REQUIRED
SETBACK 10'-0"
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
7'-6"
6'-9" X 9'-10";
66 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-9";
68 SQ. FT.
12'-4" X 14'-0";
169 SQ. FT.
12'-4" X 13'-11"; 171 SQ. FT.
10'-3" X 11'-5";
117 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
46 SQ. FT.
CLOSET
KITCHEN
BEDROOM
OFFICE
NOOK
CLOSET
KITCHEN
10'-10" X 11'-1";
116 SQ. FT.
7'-4" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
12'-0" X 14-0";
153 SQ. FT.
11'-11" X 19'-1";
229 SQ. FT.
13-6" X 14'-0";
167 SQ. FT.
12'-4"
14'-0"
12'-4" X 14'-0"; 218 SQ. FT.
16'-6" X 12'-1";
161 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
69 SQ. FT.
19'-1"
11'-11"
10'-10"
12'-1"
9'-0"
102'-2"
14'-11"
14'-7"
24'-4"
15'-10"
8'-0"
4'-11"
2'-4"
11'-10"
1
2
10'-0"
11
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
13'-4"
5'-3"
184 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 12'-4"; 172 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 13'-4";
BEDROOM
BATH
CLOSET
10'-7" X 11'-5";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
A2.11
FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL
PLANS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A211.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:09pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
FIRST LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
1" = 8'-0"
SCALE: 
SECOND LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
1" = 8'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
1
KEYNOTES                                           .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR MATERIAL SPECIFICATION
NOT USED
CANOPY, ABOVE SHOWN DASHED, BELOW SHOWN SOLID
LONG-TERM RESIDENTIAL BIKE PARKING - FLOOR MOUNTED DERO DUPLEX BICYCLE
RACKS; SEE 6/A2.10 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NOT USED
ONE BEDROOM UNIT
NOT USED
EDGE OF BALCONY/EXTERIOR CORRIDOR WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL EXTERIOR BALCONY
NOT USED
LINE OF BUILDING FACE ABOVE SHOWN DASHED
ONE BEDROOM + OFFICE UNIT

--- page 66 ---
UP
DN
DN
UP
1
A3.01
11
12
12
12
11
11
1
2
2
2
1
2
1
1
1
10
5
26'-4"
120'-9"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
14'-11"
11'-10"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
13'-1"
20'-8"
38'-11"
10'-6"
13'-3"
10'-4"
19'-6"
2
1
1
7
4
TYP.
7
1
2
8'-1"
STAIR #1
STAIR #3
OPEN
CORRIDOR
1
A3.02
2
A3.01
2
A3.02
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
8
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
OFFICE NOOK
OFFICE
NOOK
OFFICE
NOOK
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
10'-0"
13'-4"
BATH
BEDROOM
11'-1"
9'-10"
14'-0"
9'-10"
14'-0"
7'-0"
4'-2"
16'-6"
13'-6"
6'-9"
REQUESTED STATE DENSITY BONUS
REDUCTION REQUESTED FOR
SIDE YARD BUFFER
14'-9"
5'-3"
1'-6"
7
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
16'-5"
LINE OF REQUIRED
SETBACK 10'-0"
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
7'-6"
184 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 12'-4"; 172 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 13'-4";
12'-4" X 13'-11";
171 SQ. FT.
10'-7" X 11'-5";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
171 SQ. FT.
12'-3" X 14'-0";
168 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
13'-6" X 8'-6";
103 SQ. FT.
12'-4" X 14'-0"; 218 SQ. FT.
16'-6" X 12'-1";
161 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 10'-1";
69 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
11'-11" X 19'-2";
229 SQ. FT.
12'-0" X 13'-8";
153 SQ. FT.
11'-1" X 10'-9"; 116 SQ. FT.
12'-4"
14'-0"
BEDROOM
BATH
CLOSET
10'-7" X 11'-5";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
1
2
1
14'-7"
24'-4"
15'-10"
8'-0"
4'-11"
2'-4"
1
1
1
19'-2"
9'-0"
DN
UP
DN
9'-0"
12
12
11
11
1
2
2
2
1
2
1
8'-0"
26'-4"
120'-9"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
14'-11"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
13'-1"
20'-8"
38'-11"
14'-7"
24'-4"
15'-10"
10'-4"
13'-3"
3'-8"
15'-11"
1
1
4
1
1
A3.01
1
A3.02
2
A3.01
2
A3.02
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
STAIR #1
STAIR #3
1
5
8
OPEN
CORRIDOR
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
OFFICE
NOOK
BATH
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
14'-7"
7
8'-0"
REQUESTED STATE DENSITY BONUS
REDUCTION REQUESTED FOR
SIDE YARD BUFFER
LINE OF REQUIRED
SETBACK 21'-5"
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
7'-6"
LINE OF REQUIRED
SETBACK 10'-0"
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
OFFICE
NOOK
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BEDROOM
10'-10" X 10'-9";
116 SQ. FT.
12'-0" X 13'-11";
153 SQ. FT.
11'-11" X 19'-2";
229 SQ. FT.
13'-11"
1'-6"
19'-2"
4'-11"
7
2'-4"
11'-10"
5
1
5
1
5
1
2
5
11
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
13'-4"
5'-3"
184 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 12'-4"; 172 SQ. FT.
14'-0" X 13'-4";
BEDROOM
BATH
CLOSET
10'-7" X 11'-5";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
7
12
BEDROOM
KITCHEN
LIVING ROOM
BATH
CLOSET
OFFICE NOOK
14'-0"
9'-10"
6'-9"
12'-4" X 13'-11";
171 SQ. FT.
10'-7" X 11'-5";
171 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 6'-7";
171 SQ. FT.
12'-3" X 14'-0";
168 SQ. FT.
7'-0" X 9'-10";
68 SQ. FT.
10'-6"
10'-0"
A2.12
THIRD AND FOURTH LEVEL
PLANS
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A212.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:10pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
SCALE: 
THIRD LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
1" = 8'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
EXTERIOR GLAZING SYSTEM; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR SPECIFICATION
1
KEYNOTES                                           .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
STRUCTURAL COLUMN
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
EXTERIOR WALL; REFER TO EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR MATERIAL SPECIFICATION
NOT USED
CANOPY, ABOVE SHOWN DASHED, BELOW SHOWN SOLID
LONG-TERM RESIDENTIAL BIKE PARKING - FLOOR MOUNTED DERO DUPLEX BICYCLE
RACKS; SEE 6/A2.10 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NOT USED
ONE BEDROOM UNIT
NOT USED
EDGE OF BALCONY/EXTERIOR CORRIDOR WITH 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL, REFER TO
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS FOR GUARDRAIL SPECIFICATION
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL EXTERIOR BALCONY
NOT USED
LINE OF BUILDING FACE ABOVE SHOWN DASHED
ONE BEDROOM + OFFICE UNIT
SCALE: 
FOURTH LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
1" = 8'-0"

--- page 67 ---
5
5
5
7
2
8
1
A3.01
1
A3.02
2
A3.01
2
A3.02
2
A4.01
1
A4.01
117'-5"
10'-6"
10'-6"
13'-1"
38'-11"
38'-2"
12'-4"
7'-1"
24'-4"
10'-6"
13'-1"
10'-6"
13'-1"
20'-10"
2
2
6
6
6
6
6
3
3
3
4
2'-4"
10'-4"
29'-8"
2'-8"
3'-8"
2'-8"
2'-8"
5
14'-10"
2'-0"
2'-0"
5
9
A2.31
 ROOF  PLAN
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A231.dwg -  Mar 18, 2022, 1:33pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
03.18.2022
PLANNING SUPPLEMENT
SCALE: 
ROOF PLAN
1" = 8'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
RIDGE
1
KEYNOTES                                            .
ROOF DRAIN AND OVERFLOW
2
PARAPET WALL; SEE ELEVATION FOR HEIGHTS
3
4
5
LINE OF CANOPY BELOW
6
BALCONY BELOW
7
RESIDENTIAL ROOF TOP MECHANICAL UNITS; FINAL SIZE AND LOCATION
TO BE DETERMINED
8
ROOF ACCESS HATCH, 4'X6' MIN. (TO MEET SMMC 23.54.090.d2 SECURITY
STANDARDS)
ROOF PLAN GENERAL NOTES          .
1.
ROOFING TO A MINIMUM AGED SOLAR REFLECTANCE OF 0.70 AND A MINIMUM THERMAL
EMITTANCE OF 0.85 OR
2.
A MINIMUM SOLAR REFLECTANCE INDEX (SRI) OF 85
PER SMMC 23.24.030
A 3 KW PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM REQUIRED FOR MUTLI-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL 17 UNITS OR MORE.
AT 15.8% EFFICIENCY 1 SQUARE FOOT = 15 WATTS
TOTAL 3KW/ 15 WATTS = TOTAL SQUARE FEET REQUIRED
200 SQUARE FEET REQUIRED
9
ELEVATOR OVERRUN. NO ELEVATOR STOP AT ROOF.

--- page 68 ---
+14'-0" A.F.F.
SECOND LEVEL
+23'-10 5/8" A.F.F.
THIRD LEVEL
+33'-9 1/4" A.F.F.
FOURTH LEVEL
+42'-7 7/8" 
T.O. PLATE
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
+0'-0" A.F.F.
FIRST LEVEL
+40'-0" 
HEIGHT LIMIT
5
2
2
9
7
8
6
7
4
1
2
3A
1
11
7
4
12
11
+50'-6" 
T.O. ELEVATOR OVERRUN
44'- 8" MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
LOWEST POINT OF EXISTING GRADE TO HIGHEST PLATE LINE
+14'-0" A.F.F.
SECOND LEVEL
+23'-10 5/8" A.F.F.
THIRD LEVEL
+33'-9 1/4" A.F.F.
FOURTH LEVEL
+0'-0" A.F.F.
FIRST LEVEL
4
1
7
8
3B
7
12
6
+50'-6" 
T.O. ELEVATOR OVERRUN
2
44'- 8" MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
LOWEST POINT OF EXISTING GRADE TO HIGHEST PLATE LINE
+40'-0" 
HEIGHT LIMIT
+42'-7 7/8"
T.O. PLATE
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
A3.01
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
0
10
20
30
40
5
SCALE: 
SOUTH WEST ELEVATION - EL CAMINO REAL
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
SOUTH EAST ELEVATION - HAYWARD AVE
2
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A301-A303.dwg -  Mar 18, 2022, 11:01am - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
03.18.2022
PLANNING SUPPLEMENT
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH LOW TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM
FRAMES, KAWNEER OR SIM.
1
KEYNOTES                                                           .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
2
VINYL FRAME DUAL PANE WINDOWS, BRONZE FINISH, MILGARD OR SIM
3A
4
5
6
7
8
NOT USED
9
10
11
12
HORIZONTAL CEMENTITIOUS LAP SIDING, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7018 DOVETAIL
EXTERIOR WALL SCONCE, SISTEMALUX SLOT ROUND WALL SCONCE,  BRONZE
FINISH, 3000K COLOR TEMP
C CHANNEL STEEL CANOPY - DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET (COLOR TO MATCH
WINDOW FRAMES)
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFUL GRAY
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7014 EIDER WHITE
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET (COLOR TO MATCH WINDOW FRAMES)
METAL FRAME BALCONY, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET WITH HORIZONTAL "KEBONY" WOOD GUARDRAIL
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
METAL FRAME FENCE, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET WITH HORIZONTAL "KEBONY" WOOD INFILL
SMOOTH TROWLED STUCCO, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFUL GREY
3B
13
EGRESS STAIR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE,  SMOOTH TROWLED STUCCO, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFUL
GREY
EL CAMINO
REAL BLVD.
HAYWARD
AVENUE

--- page 69 ---
+14'-0" A.F.F.
SECOND LEVEL
+0'-0" A.F.F.
FIRST LEVEL
+23'-10 5/8" A.F.F.
THIRD LEVEL
+33'-9 1/4" A.F.F.
FOURTH LEVEL
+42'-7 7/8" 
T.O. PLATE
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
+40'-0" 
HEIGHT LIMIT
+50'-6" 
T.O. ELEVATOR OVERRUN
3B
8
2
7
4
9
11
8
6
11
1
2
3B
4
6
8
6
44'- 8" MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
LOWEST POINT OF EXISTING GRADE TO HIGHEST PLATE LINE
+14'-0" A.F.F.
SECOND LEVEL
+23'-10 5/8" A.F.F.
THIRD LEVEL
+33'-9 1/4" A.F.F.
FOURTH LEVEL
+42'-7 7/8" 
T.O. PLATE
BUILDING TOTAL HEIGHT
+0'-0" A.F.F.
FIRST LEVEL
7
6
8
4
5
3A
2
6
+40'-0" 
HEIGHT LIMIT
13
+9'-0" A.F.F.
T.O. PARAPET
EGRESS STAIR
+50'-6" 
T.O. ELEVATOR OVERRUN
44'- 8" MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
LOWEST POINT OF EXISTING GRADE TO HIGHEST PLATE LINE
A3.02
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
0
10
20
30
40
5
SCALE: 
NORTH EAST ELEVATION 
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
NORTH WEST ELEVATION
2
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A301-A303.dwg -  Mar 18, 2022, 11:01am - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments of service.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
03.18.2022
PLANNING SUPPLEMENT
1" INSULATED LOW E GLAZING SYSTEM WITH LOW TINT GLASS IN BLACK ALUMINUM
FRAMES, KAWNEER OR SIM.
1
KEYNOTES                                                           .
NOTE: NOT ALL KEYNOTES LISTED MAY APPLY TO THIS DRAWING.
2
VINYL FRAME DUAL PANE WINDOWS, BRONZE FINISH, MILGARD OR SIM
3A
4
5
6
7
8
NOT USED
9
10
11
12
HORIZONTAL CEMENTITIOUS LAP SIDING, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7018 DOVETAIL
EXTERIOR WALL SCONCE, SISTEMALUX SLOT ROUND WALL SCONCE,  BRONZE
FINISH, 3000K COLOR TEMP
C CHANNEL STEEL CANOPY - DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET (COLOR TO MATCH
WINDOW FRAMES)
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFUL GRAY
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7014 EIDER WHITE
STUCCO 30/30 FINISH, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET (COLOR TO MATCH WINDOW FRAMES)
METAL FRAME BALCONY, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET WITH HORIZONTAL "KEBONY" WOOD GUARDRAIL
ENTRY/EXIT DOOR
METAL FRAME FENCE, DUNN EDWARDS DE6378 JET WITH HORIZONTAL "KEBONY" WOOD INFILL
SMOOTH TROWLED STUCCO, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFUL GREY
3B
13
EGRESS STAIR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE,  SMOOTH TROWLED STUCCO, SHERWIN WILLIAMS SW7016 MINDFU
GREY
EL CAMINO
REAL BLVD.
HAYWARD
AVENUE

--- page 70 ---
STRUCTURAL SUPPORT
SIDE VIEW
FENCE MODULE
FRONT VIEW
FENCE MODULE
PLAN VIEW
6"
6"
VARIES
38"
2"
1"X6" "KEBONY" WOOD INFILL
2" ALUM. STRUCTURAL POST
6'-0"
2"X.5" ALUMINUM BAR
2"X.5" ALUMINUM BAR
A3.03
STREET CONTEXT ELEVATIONS,
MATERIAL AND COLOR PALETTES
0
10
20
40
60
100
SCALE: 
EL CAMINO REAL ELEVATION
1
1" = 20'-0"
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A301-A303.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:22pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
0
10
20
40
60
100
SCALE: 
SOUTH EAST ELEVATION - HAYWARD AVENUE
2
1" = 20'-0"
EXISTING  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
EXSITING SENIOR HOUSING RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
ARAGON BLVD
HAYWARD AVE
PROPOSED PROJECT
EXISTING PARKING LOT
EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDING
LANDSCAPE MEDIAN
PROPOSED PROJECT
EL CAMINO REAL BLVD.
EXISTING  CHURCH AND SCHOOL
SCALE: 
SITE FENCE DETAILS
3
1/2" = 1'-0"

--- page 71 ---
OPEN
OFFICE
UNDERGROUND
PARKING
ADJACENT
CONDO
ADJACENT
CONDO
ADJACENT
CONDO
ADJACENT
PARKING
EL CAMINO
REAL
49'-10""
 EXISTING GRADE TO TOP OF PLATE @ ELEVATOR
+0'-0"
PODIUM
14-0"
2ND LEVEL
23'-10 5/8"
3RD LEVEL
33'-9 1/4"
4TH LEVEL
42'-7 7/8"
T.O. PLATE
-1'-6"
LOW POINT OF SITE
50'-6"
T.O. PARAPET
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
LINE OF REQUIRED SETBACK
SMMC 27.48.100 BUFFERS
49'-10"
T.O. PLATE
PROPERTY LINE
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
OPEN
OFFICE
+0'-0"
PODIUM
14-0"
2ND LEVEL
23'-10 5/8"
3RD LEVEL
33'-9 1/4"
4TH LEVEL
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
SHARED / OFFICE
PARKING
HAYWARD
AVE
RESIDENT
PARKING
44'- 8" MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
LOWEST POINT OF EXISTING GRADE TO HIGHEST PLATE LINE
47'-0"
T.O. PARAPET
42'-7 7/8"
T.O. PLATE
LOW POINT OF SITE
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
1 BEDROOM
UNIT
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
P:\2018 Jobs\184688 - 929 S El Camino\01-Planning App\2021-xxxx-5th PA Submittal\184688-A401.dwg -  Jul 20, 2021, 1:31pm - evans
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowledge(s) that
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specifications, reports,
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of service.  ARC TEC
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and owner of such
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation shall not
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC consultants'
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written authorization will be
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and ARC TEC's
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall indemnify and
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and agents and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unauthorized reuse of
ARC TEC or ARC TEC 's co nsultants instrumen ts o f se rvice.
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence over any scaled
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dimensions and
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E C
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGIES
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Building C
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2355
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 750
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1121
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
02.10.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
A4.01
BUILDING SECTIONS
SCALE: 
BUILDING SECTION
1
1/8" = 1'-0"
SCALE: 
BUILDING SECTION
2
1/8" = 1'-0"
0
10
20
30
40
5
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 72 ---
L0.01
COVER SHEET
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTIO
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowl
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specificati
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of servic
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and o
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documenta
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written author
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall i
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses an
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unautho
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments 
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence ove
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dim
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E 
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLO
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Buildi
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 75
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1
184
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUB
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMIT
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMIT
CRLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA 
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DE
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 73 ---
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTIO
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowl
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specificati
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of servic
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and o
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documenta
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written author
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall i
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses an
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unautho
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments 
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence ove
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dim
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E 
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLO
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Buildi
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 75
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1
184
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUB
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMIT
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMIT
CRLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA 
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DE
L2.01
DETAILS & IMAGES
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 74 ---
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
L3.01
PLANTING PLAN
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTIO
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowl
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specificati
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of servic
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and o
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documenta
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written author
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall i
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses an
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unautho
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments 
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence ove
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dim
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E 
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLO
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Buildi
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 75
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1
184
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUB
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMIT
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMIT
CRLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA 
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DE
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 75 ---
L4.01
PHOTOMETRIC PLAN
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTIO
The "user(s)" in possession of this documentation acknowl
ARC TEC's and ARC TEC consultants' drawings, specificati
electronic data and other documentation are instruments of servic
and ARC TEC consultants shall be deemed the author and o
documentation.  The "user(s)" in possession of this documenta
sue or authorize any other person to use ARC TEC's or ARC TEC
instruments of service. Reuse without ARC TEC's written author
at the user(s) sole risk and without liability to ARC TEC and
consultants.  The user(s) possessing this documentation shall i
hold harmless ARC TEC and ARC TEC's consultants and
employees from and against all claims, damages losses an
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of unautho
ARC TEC or ARC TEC's consultants instruments 
Written dimensions on this drawing shall have precedence ove
dimension. DO NOT SCALE THIS DRAWING for accurate dim
notify ARC TEC of any discrepancies.
©  Copyright  ARC TEC, Inc.  2018
In Association with:
A R C   T E 
ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLO
www.arctecinc.com
Arizona
2960 East Northern Avenue, Buildi
Phoenix, AZ 85028        602.953.2
California
1731 Technology Drive, Suite 75
San Jose, CA  95113   408.496.1
184
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUB
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBM
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMIT
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMIT
CRLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA 
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DE
01/29/2021
07.22.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V

--- page 76 ---
BASIS OF BEARINGS NOTES: LEGEND Q
THE BEARING, NORTH 48°38’00 EAST, OF HAYWARD AVENUE, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN BGT RELIED UPON A FIRST AMERICAN TITLE COMPANY PRELIMINARY TITLE REPORT, ORDER AC ASPHALT CONCRETE MH MH (TYPE UNKNOWN) . Zz 5
PARCEL MAP NO. 195 WHICH WAS FILED FOR RECORD IN BOOK 46 OF PARCEL MAPS PAGES NO. NCS-578570-SD, AS TITLE REFERENCE. NO EASEMENTS WERE REFERENCED WITHIN SAID BW BACK OF WALK MON-MON MONUMENT TO MONUMENT DISTANCE 6 —=-—&
68-72, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS, WAS USED AS THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS REPORT. CB CATCH BASIN PBV PACBELL/SBC VAULT 6 ~Se
SURVEY. C/L CENTERLINE PGE PG&E VAULT ve’ Sh uss
UTILITIES SHOWN HEREON TAKEN FROM VISUAL SURFACE EVIDENCE AND SHOULD BE CMP CORRUGATED METAL PIPE PIV POST INDICATOR VALVE 4 c Sas
CONSIDERED AS APPROXIMATE ONLY. ACTUAL LOCATIONS OF UTILITIES MAY VARY. TRUE Cl CAST IRON PIPE PP POWER POLE nN S Sa
BENCHMARK LOCATION OF UTILITIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED BY EXPOSING THE UTILITY. CO CLEAN OUT BOX SDMH STORM DRAIN MANHOLE 0 Y>o
4 BENCHMARK cP SURVEY CONTROL POINT SL STREET LIGHT S 5328
ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON ARE BASED UPON THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ELEVATION SYSTEM. BOUNDARY SHOWN HEREON IS RESOLVED BASED UPON CURB SPLITS AROUND BLOCK. LOT CPP CORRUGATED PLASTIC PIPE SLB STREET LIGHT BOX = g 5
BENCHMARK USED WAS THE RAMSET NAIL AND WASHER ON TOP OF CURB AT THE NORTHERLY FRONTAGES WERE HELD AS RECORD WIDTH FROM PALM AVENUE. CTV CABLE TELEVISION LINE SLV STREET LIGHT VAULT my Th] - ‘c
INTERSECTION OF FRANKLIN AND PARROTT WITH AN ELEVATION OF 44.309 FEET - CITY BM DI DROP INLET Sey SANITARY SEWER Ate 5 Go &
#068-001 TREE LOCATIONS SHOWN HEREON ARE SHOWN SYMBOLICALLY WITH SYMBOL SIZES BASED UPON EV ELECTRIC METER TBC TOP BACK OF CURB Q Q°°*
TRUNK DIAMETER AT CHEST HEIGHT, AT THE LOCATION WHERE THE TREE ENTERS THE GROUND F ELECTRIC VAULT TBM TEMPORARY BENCHMARK < 2 ‘3
SURFACE. LOCATIONS AND SIZES OF TREE TRUNKS CAN ONLY BE CONSIDERED APPROXIMATE CF A OWLINE FLOOR TS TRAFFIC. SIGNAL 5 S a)
UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED ON THE MAP. TREES OF TRUNK DIAMETER SIZES OF 6 INCHES OR ite FIRE HYDRANT TSB TRAFFIC SIGNAL BOX 0 8 16 S i. ar
GREATER WERE LOCATED BY THE FIELDCREW. UNK UNKNOWN T o S
GM GAS METER YPE Si
SURVEY PERFORMED BY: BGT LAND SURVEYING cUY GUY ANCHOR WBF WATER BACK FLOW VALVE 1" = 8 KSs8
www.bgtsurveying.com GV GAS VALVE WM WATER METER BOX S oO
LOT 17 HCR HANDICAP. RAMP wy WATER VALVE OF.
DATE OF FIELD SURVEY: MAY, 2015 HVE HIGH-VOLT ELECTRIC ~CTV- CABLE TELEVISION LINE mss
JOB NUMBER: 15-080 INV. INVERT -E- ELECTRICAL LINE oO =
. RON TIPE “On OVERHEAD LINE
REVISION - OCTOBER 7, 2019 - UPDATE TREE INFORMATION JP JOINT P ~OH-
KV KILOVOLT -SD- ST@RM.4BRAIN LINE uu
LAT. LATERAL -SS- SANITARY SEWER LINE >
-W- WATER LINE =
_ EXISTING BUILDING SY,
EXISTING BUILDING 46 PM 68-/2 I ty
; =
ROOF: 67.6’ ROOF: 67.6 Q:
¥s
N
MAP OF SUBDIVISION NO. 7 BALCONY SS as
HAYWARD PARK SECOND FLOOR: 43.5 OO __* SS
BOOK 4 MAPS 22 THIRD FLOOR: 53.7’ I
ee N_41°20’28” W BLOCK WALL ’ q :
31.12 v OF : 185.06 , Og
\ 50.51 30.25 0.2 OIE —— 29.15, °°) 28.93 5 K26.22
\ } , f ve s| CONCRETE
! Z rs 2 50 is 5-CM v | a CURB & GUTTER
rs Zz : . 29.87 2 x
: “ N N . _ \ AT&T |] N
e oe) | Sana BOX
| - g 3 28.39 /~
CONCRETE STEPS : ASPHALT Ix Na > al
" 30.94 | TO BASEMENT 30.85 in CONCRETE STEPS = |\ , Lu} =<
I 28 OAK 30.94 30.71 30.35 TO BASEMENT 30.14 30.46 29.68 al = SSV N =
30.83) 00 OI “ _——_yx—————> : 30.47 vat bg 85LX |
S No DECK ie @ 29.81 a \ /
5 x 3 29.85 \ v /
M., 18 NPS BE ~ 30.80 30.60 STIS Sikso.18 | PECK P ceof \ pose / WY.
x 30.45 ty \ | / OS
N » cK AT&T \r 28.87 / > i
2 60" | CYPRESS S BOx| | Se
: MIULTI- TRUNK ae) / (
S | CONCRETE STEPS ( ) “6 we, \ Ys <
Silt 30” OAK TO BASEMEN | \ 7 LL!
(«)i0.78 EXISTING BUILDING 29.29} | \ 29.34 O a
30.30 , 28.59 / ~ YY
| 29.19 ee eee / O° to
Vv N . / Zz
EXISTING BUILDING EXISTING BUILDING . v 7 / = 0 © O
2-GM qo” / 2 <l <t <x
1 30.59 , ; / 7 < x
x]30.79 Ss / 2 Y = =
l RIDGE: 51.3' x 999.53 : , / te —t
SG 30.79 30.81 RIDGE: 50.5’ Net 4 v v q v / pe Co) = im
a, __ :50. _ SK 50.66 i CONCRETE vs a yO x / => 5
© v DRIVEWAY * zo) . Sip / a — x
a ao / Oo
LOT 18 LOT 1 E . / < s| f°
zal WN 12820 SQ. FT. 50.37 / Z O Oc
= l a z _
30.87 IN
30.89 . OS
alll s0.78 30.80 X -- am —_! =
: >]
° . N ' 2A 5 =
x 28.21 ©  p27.99 ‘ ASPHALT Za ”
I THRESHOLD ) THRESHOLD - > S OD
J 31-12 P5527 i . 2.16 BX” 36" FIR THRESHOLD THRESHOLD 0 f
D J NI “ uN 39
= CONCRETE ° CONCRETE NN 32:39 Y a aS
; i 30.72 2-EM 29.63
iG DRIVEWAY DRIVEWAY q{ =
Oo 4 f 30.71] 8 »
to ° 31.78 RS \ Q _-
> 30.73 <x
30.84 soee* 30.58 Z
+ | 30.65 30.80 86 “S
36” PALM .
all A =90°01'32” os
R=25.00’ ¢ ) a
L=39.28’
U SIGN SIGN 29.54 ae ~
31.04 MULTISOURCE”) (NO NAME) 30.82 30.47 30.44| i
ASPHALT “TO ASPHALT 4 S
oe =— = SOS re [DASHED LINE = PROPERTY LINE PER CALTRANS RIGHT OF WAY MAPS] ree at ("PSYCHIC")
31.12 aa PG&E] X [30.74 -— — = SO = Se -- _ [ x ]30.% _
ae 5 a 30.81. 30.75 73 wanna” 5 30.62 s = 3 30.68 ; ; | 50.57 ° 3 : . ‘ mv
| > ® y SS AT aT S 41°20'28":E oye > 8 : ; << 160.05% a ; a = yy 29.79 Dx]
° ATT&T ° a vg : % gg ° CONCRETE SIDEWALK y TT SSL» sy ATT&T _y? 9 oO
av N v N q v q v 4 y v ySI HK30.62 v S v s oN v S v
31.12 5 3 30.90 2 30.78 . 8 _ 530.60, — so 8 30.52 3 4
“30.66 30.45, ; 7 ; Y 50.32 mS Ts 30.17% ay oY » "30,01 — v S “28.89 : sy a ae oy
v7 v N Vv XJ Nv vo _ v ql v J y J v q v XN q v Vv N v
: . . 3 5 s . < J s J . [x1 29.79 s 29.71
v 4 v NJ v v v q v q v J ty va Joy es v q 2! ve a Vv a v
v4 x s x v q * v . “y N v v XN SJ v S v s v oN S) v g v q S a0 va Joy
«a v a? CONCRETE »GUTTER vo . v Sg oy Ty <y N 74 78 7 $ 3 < > S
Jowgy v < v aq v < v < vy oN a’ ‘ v _* N v ‘ v S gy S v Jy vy.
v a q S v qay vq 4 i) v < v ag Ny a Vy 3 vg a * vo XN N v N
30.93 X"30.80 x 30.61 30.49 30.36 30.23 30.12
ee ie
ee 34. ; Assessor Parcel Number:
a 034-275-130
ee SDMH a Prepared For:
S oo a NARSAI TAILO
a LANE STRIPE x 702 MARSHALL STREET #322
BAT ye 31.29 x ShO3 30.57 — REDWOOD CITY, CA 94063
EL CAMINO REAL ae pote_MAY 2018
ee Scale: 1 = 8
oS — Contour Interval: 1
— LANE STRIPE
31.66 x 31.53 x ~ — > x 30.80 Drawn by: LHL
* 31.21
ae Revisions:
oS
31.94 31.73 31.42 DOUBLE YELLOW STRIPE 431.23 _ : — 30.81, ~ S | J 1
-—— -——-—— - - -——-—— - = BI
31.45 31.29 — se

DOUBLE YELLOW STRIPE

| vob No. =: 15-080 No. 15-080


--- page 77 ---
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C1.01 NOTES LEGEND ABBREVIATIONS.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:29pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
LEGEND
ENGINEER'S STATEMENT
BASIS OF BEARING
BENCHMARK
ABBREVIATIONS
SHEET INDEX
SHEET NUMBER
SHEET TITLE
C1.01
NOTES, LEGEND, & ABBREVIATIONS

--- page 78 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C2.01 EXISTING CONDITIONS.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:07pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
NOTES
C2.01
EXISTING CONDITIONS

--- page 79 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C3.01 PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:07pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C3.01
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN

--- page 80 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
NOTE:
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C3.02 PRELIMINARY SIGHT TRIANGLE.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:07pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C3.02
DRIVEWAY SIGHT TRIANGLE

--- page 81 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
FF 30.95
FF 30.95
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C4.01 PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:08pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C4.01
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN

--- page 82 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
DN
UP
UP
DN
DN
NOTES:
’
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C5.01 PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:28pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C5.01
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN

--- page 83 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
DMA - 3
DMA - 4
DMA - 5
DMA - 2
DMA - 1
DMA - 1
DMA - 1
LEGEND
NOTE:
DMA IDBMP ID IMPERVIOUS AREA
(SF)
PERVIOUS AREA (SF)
PERVIOUS AREA X 0.1 (SF) EFFECTIVE IMPERVIOUS AREA (EIA)
(SF)
BMP AREA REQUIRED
= EIA *0.04 (SF)
BMP AREA PROVID
(SF)
1
FTP-1
5,515
718
72
5,587
223
276
2
FTP-2
1,358
0
0
1,358
54
59
3
FTP-3
1,927
0
0
1,927
77
85
4
FTP-4
2,032
0
0
2,032
81
85
5
FTP-5
720
0
0
720
29
45
TOTAL
11,552
718
72
11,624
465
550
DMA SUMMARY
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C6.01 PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:08pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C6.01
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN

--- page 84 ---
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
LOT 1
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVENUE
EROSION CONTROL LEGEND
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C7.01 PRELIMINARY EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:08pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C7.01
PRELIMINARY EROSION
CONTROL PLAN

--- page 85 ---
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL NOTES:
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES
MAINTENANCE NOTES
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C7.01 PRELIMINARY EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:09pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C7.02
EROSION CONTROL
NOTES AND DETAILS

--- page 86 ---
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C7.01 PRELIMINARY EROSION CONTROL PLAN.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:09pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C7.03
SAN MATEO COUNTY
CONSTRUCTION BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES

--- page 87 ---
FLOW-THRU PLANTER AT GRADE
FLOW-THRU PLANTER ON PODIUM
150 CALIFORNIA STREET
SUITE 600
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
(415) 930-7900
www.bkf.com
PROJECT NO:
DATE
DESCRIPTION
K:\2018\181916_1_Hayward_Ave_San_Mateo\ENG\S_SD\C8.01 DETAILS.dwg -  Jul 14, 2021, 3:09pm - wats
In Association with:
184688
A Planning Application for:
ONE HAYWARD
1 HAYWARD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
10.03.2019
PLANNING SUBMITTAL
02.10.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL  I
06.12.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL II
08.20.2020
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL III
01.29.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL IV
07.14.2021
PLANNING RESUBMITTAL V
C8.01
DETAILS

--- page 88 ---
MIXED-USE DATA FORM 
NAME:  
1 Hayward Ave., SPAR + SDPA 
PA: 
PA-2019-045 
ADDRESS: 
1 Hayward Ave.   
LAND AREA:   
12,820 sq. ft. (0.29 acre) 
ZONING:  
E2-1/R4  
APNs:   
034-275-130  
FLOOR AREA 
Office 
Residential 
Common Area1: 
TOTAL: 
Basement: 
PROPOSED 
4,495 sq. ft. 
15,315 sq. ft 
5,510 sq. ft. 
25,320 sq. ft. 
9,510 sq. ft. 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
- 
- 
- 
25,640 sq. ft. (/R4) 
- 
F.A.R.: 
1.982 
2.0 (/R4) 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
 
 
 
61.16 DU/AC 
Zoning code (1 DU/2,000 sf): 
21.78 DU/AC 
 
Zoning code with DB (1 DU/1,000 sf): 
 43.56 DU/AC  
 
Zoning code with DB + 50% increase: 
65.34 DU/AC 
UNITS: 
 
 
 
 
18 DU 
Zoning code (1 DU/2,000 sf): 
6.41 DU 
 
Zoning code with DB (1 DU/1,000 sf): 
12.8 DU 
 
Zoning code with DB + 50% increase: 
19.2 DU 
BLDG. HEIGHT2: 
42’-7 7/8” to T.O.P. 
50’-6” incl. elevator bulkhead 
40’-0” 
STORIES 
4 + Basement 
- 
UNIT TYPE 
1-bedroom (junior) 
1-bedroom (standard) 
NO. 
3 
15 
PROPOSED SIZE 
640-935 sq. ft.  
 
 
MINIMUM SIZE 
- 
- 
SETBACKS/BUFFERS: 
Front (Hayward Ave. E2-1/R4): 
Left Side (El Camino Real. R1C)3: 
Right Side (abuts R5): 
Rear (abuts E2-1):   
PROPOSED 
9’ (to garage/balcony walls) 
10’ (1st floor); 8’ (2nd-4th floors) 
15’-10” to bldg; 10’-1” to trash enclosure 
10’-6” 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
7’-6” 
½ Building Ht. per GP (21’-3.9”) 
½ Building Ht. or buffer 15’-0” 
0’ 
PARKING: 
Resident (0.5 per unit): 
Office (DB: 1 per 335 sq. ft.)4: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
PROPOSED 
9 
13 
22 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
9 (18 bedrooms) 
14 (rounded up from 13.88) 
 
LONG TERM BICYCLE PARKING: 
 
 
PROPOSED 
 
19 
1 br: (18 units)(1 space) = 18 spaces 
Office: (4,650sf)(1/10K sf) = 0.46 spaces 
= 18 long-term spaces total 
SHORT TERM BICYCLE PARKING: 
 
 
 
 
4 
1 br: (18 units)(0.05 space) = 0.9 spaces 
Office: (4,650)(1/20,000) = 0.23 spaces 
= 1 short-term space total 
MAXIMUM PARCEL COVERAGE: 
74.6% 
80% 
OPEN SPACE: 
PROPOSED 
3,260 sq. ft. (25.4%) 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
2,564 sq. ft. (20%) 
USABLE OPEN SPACE: 
2,550 sq. ft. 
1,440 sq. ft. 
COMMENTS: 
1. Includes first floor office/residential shared lobby, first floor covered area for parking, elevators/stairs, trash room. 
2. For lots more than 100 feet deep, buildings over 40 feet may be permitted up to a maximum of 55 feet if they conform with specific Planning Area policies, per the 
General Plan.  
3.Setbacks per General Plan Land Use Element, Policy PA 5.1(1). 
4. State Density Bonus waiver requested to reduce required office parking ratio to 1 stall per 360 sf of office floor area.

--- page 89 ---
April 28, 2022 
 
Wendy Lao 
City of San Mateo 
Community Development Department – Planning Division 
330 West 29th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403-1388 
 
 
RE: 
PA 2019-045 
ARC TEC #184688 
SPAR + SDPA 
One Hayward Ave. 
APN 034-175-130 
State Density Bonus Letter 
 
This letter is submitted on behalf of One Hayward Avenue, LLC (“Owner”) as they plan for the 
redevelopment of their property located at the corner of 927 South El Camino Real and One 
Hayward Avenue in San Mateo (“Property”) to build a mixed-use office and residential project 
with both market rate and below market rate units (“Project”). The residential units will be rental 
units. The Property is located within ½ mile of both public transit and a major transit 
corridor and would qualify by right for a reduced residential parking ratio of 0.5 spaces per 
unit. As currently envisioned, the Project would utilize Hayward Avenue as its front and 
include four floors with 4,650 square feet of office space on the first floor and three floors of 
residential units. It would also include below grade parking. Finally, the Project would 
maximize the residential density allowed on the site (12 units) and seek a density bonus (an 
additional six units), as well as waivers and incentives pursuant to Government Code 
Section 65915 (“State Density Bonus Law”). 
 
State Density Bonus Law Overview. 
 
As you are aware, Government Code Section 65915(b) provides that a city shall grant a density 
bonus, waivers and incentives when an applicant for a housing development seeks and agrees 
to construct a housing development that will contain at least five percent of the total units, 
excluding any units permitted by the density bonus, for very-low income households. In this 
case, the Project proposes to set aside 16 percent of the total units, or two of the 12 units, for 
very-low income households. Therefore, under State Density Bonus Law, the Project is eligible 
for a density bonus, incentives and waivers. 
 
The One Hayward Avenue, is requesting State Density Bonus Waivers and Incentives on the 
following items: 
 
• 
Landscape buffer 
• 
Step in height 
• 
Lot width 
• 
Percentage of compact stalls 
• 
Parking ramp slope 
• 
Parking ratio requirements 
• 
First Level height 
• 
Building height

--- page 90 ---
Government Code 65915(e)(1) provides in no case may a city apply any development standard that will 
have the effect of physically precluding the construction of a development at the densities or with the 
incentives permitted. An applicant may submit to the city a proposal for the waiver or reduction of 
development standards that will have the effect of physically precluding the construction of a development 
at the densities or with the incentives permitted. The proposal for a development standard waiver shall 
not reduce the number of incentives to which an applicant is entitled. 
 
In order to provide the proposed BMR units, relief to the City’s development standards in the form of 
waivers and incentives is required. As such, and as per State Law, the project is requesting the following 
incentive regarding the Landscape Buffer and shows that this incentive results in real and actual cost 
savings. 
 
 
1. Landscape Buffer (SMMC 27.48.100): 
 
Required: Landscape buffer shall be at least equal to one-half the height of the building measured 
from the property line. 
 
Requested Incentive: The project proposes a 10’ landscape buffer at the street and interior lot 
lines. The setback will be 8’ on the 2nd through 4th levels. 
 
Rationale for Incentive: Permitting the reduced buffer will allow the addition of a 4th level of 
residential apartments. These units are necessary to physically construct the project at the 
permitted density and to provide the BMR units. In terms of cost reduction, this additional floor 
and 6 units results in an overall decreased cost of construction per unit. Specifically, the soft 
costs of the project such as land price, design and engineering fees, and financial interest and 
accounting fees will be spread over 18 units, instead of 12 units. Spreading the soft costs over 
the greater number of units results in 0.5% saving in construction cost per unit which makes the 
provision of the Below Market Rate units as included in the project feasible. 
 
These additional units allow fixed hard and soft costs, including but not limited to, parking, 
elevators, stairs and amenity spaces, design and engineering fees, and financing costs to be 
spread across the additional 6 units. This results in an approximately 33 percent savings on 
each of the 4th floor units (approximately $261,000 per unit or $1,566,000 total) making the 
provision of 2 very-low income units (at a cost of approximately $782,000 each or $1,564,000 
total) and a total of 18 residential units feasible. 
 
 
In addition, the project is requesting the following waivers in order to provide the proposed BMR units. 
These waivers are required, since without them, the project would be physically precluded from being 
developed.

--- page 91 ---
2. Lot Width: Minimum Development Standards (27.24.040): 
 
Required: For parcels with a minimum parcel area of 10,000 SF, the minimum parcel width shall 
be 80’ (lineal feet), and the minimum parcel area / DU shall be 1,000 SF. 
 
Requested Waiver: For parcels with a minimum parcel area of 10,000 SF, the minimum parcel 
width shall be 70’ (lineal feet), and the minimum parcel area / DU shall be 1,000 SF. 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density. If the required code parcel width were followed, the 
density of the site would be half of what is proposed. 
 
3. Percentage of Compact Parking Stalls (27.64.265): 
 
Required: Where the number of required spaces is from 10 to 100, 30% of such spaces may be 
provided pursuant to compact car standards. 
 
Requested Waiver: 59% compact parking stalls requested or 13 of 22 total stalls. 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density. A greater percentage of compact stalls allows there to be 
an additional two parking stalls in the garage that would not be possible with the code maximum 
prescribed percentage. These two parking stalls translate into four units (parking ratio .5 stalls / 
bedroom) which are possible because of the greater number of compact parking spaces. 
 
4. Parking Ramp Standard: Public Works Streets Sidewalk Typical Driveway or Ramp Profile 
Required: Maximum slope on a ramp profile is 18% 
Requested Waiver: Maximum Slope on a ramp profile of 20% 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density. Providing a ramp with a steeper incline allows the length 
of the ramp to be shortened by 3’-11”. Including the 3’-11’ in the level floor area of the basement, 
allows two additional parking stalls which would not be possible with the longer ramp. These two 
parking stalls translate into four units (parking ratio .5 stalls / bedroom) which would not be 
possible with the longer ramp. 
 
5. Parking Requirements – Minimum Parking Stalls Required (SMMC 27.64.160) 
Required: 1 per 335 SF of gross floor area of office use 
Requested Waiver: 1 per 360 SF of gross floor area office use 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density.

--- page 92 ---
6. El Camino Real 40 – 55 Foot Building Height Design Criteria-Ground Floor Height - Coherent City 
Image c. Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding building heights and promote the 
creation of a coherent City image. 
Required: Streetscape and Ground Floor Uses 
 
3. A minimum first floor height of 15’ should be provided to accommodate active ground floor 
uses along the El Camino Real frontage, initially or at a future date. 
Requested Waiver: 14-foot ground floor use height 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density. 
 
7. Building Height 
 
Required: Maximum height of 40 feet 
 
Requested Waiver: Maximum height of 50 feet 
 
Rationale for Waiver: Not granting this waiver would physically preclude the construction of the 
development at the proposed density. When an applicant exceeds the city’s maximum density 
through the application of state law, modifications to a city’s development standards are 
necessary to make construction of the increased number of units physically possible. The 
applicant is using a 50% density bonus. 
 
 
 
 
Please feel free to contact me if you have any additional questions. Thank you for your assistance. 
Sincerely, 
ARC TEC, Inc. 
C r a i g A l m e l e h , N C A R B ,   L E E D   G A 
P r i n c i p a l

--- page 93 ---
December 4, 2019
Mr.. Rendell Bustos
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
One Hayward Avenue
Dear Rendell:
I reviewed the drawings, and evaluated the site context. My comments on the plans and elevations for this project are 
as follows:
SITE CONTEXT
The site is located on a corner site on El Camino Real in an area with a broad mix of commercial and residential uses 
along El Camino Real. The neighborhood to the east of the site on Hayward Avenue contains single and multifamilial 
residential structures. Photographs of the site and surroundings are shown on the following page. 
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN

--- page 94 ---
Multifamily residential immediately to the right 
across Hayward Avenue on El Camino Real
Multifamily residential immediately to the right on 
Hayward Avenue
The Site and Site Context
Adjacent building immediately to the left on El 
Camino Real
Church and school across El Camino Real
Multifamily residential across Hayward Avenue
The Site viewed from El Camino Real
Multifamily residential immediately across Hayward 
Avenue
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 2

--- page 95 ---
ISSUES AND CONCERNS
The proposed project consists of multifamily units over ground floor commercial. Parking is proposed within a single 
level underground garage. Overall, the structure is well designed and thought out within the chosen Contemporary 
Style. Other recent residential and mixed use projects near Downtown have selected a range of architectural styles. The 
multifamily building immediately across Hayward Avenue from this site is designed in a traditional Mediterranean Style, 
and the recently approved office building and adjacent multifamily residential structure north on El Camno Real are 
also designed in traditional architectural styles. This mix of styles has also occurred further to the south along El Camino 
Real. One could argue for either case regarding the appropriate style for this site. For the purposes of this review, I have 
limited my comments to the architectural style presented by the applicant.
As noted above, the structure is well designed within the selected style - see proposed elevations below.
PROPOSED EAST ELEVATION
PROPOSED EL CAMINO REAL ELEVATION
PROPOSED NORTH ELEVATION
PROPOSED HAYWARD AVENUE ELEVATION
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 3

--- page 96 ---
There are, however, a few issues as follows:
1.	 Some clarification is needed regarding pedestrian movement through the internal garage gate in the basement park-
ing level.
2.	 The utilization of an open corridor for access to the residential units seems unusual for a residential project of this 
design and quality. This external corridor also might result in some privacy intrusion upon the units and decks of 
the adjacent multifamily residential building.
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 4

--- page 97 ---
3.	 The proposed design looks a bit boxy compared to the two adjacent multifamily residential projects and the dark 
gray colors also do not relate well.
4.	 The front setback landscaping along adjacent development along Hayward Avenue contribute to a strong resi-
dential streetscape image. Attitudes about landscaping and water usage have changed since those developments 
were constructed. Current standards place a greater  emphasis on sustainable design. I am unsure as to how the 
proposed landscaping will relate to that strong streetscape image.
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 5

--- page 98 ---
5.	 The portion of the building at the corner of El Camino Real and Hayward Avenue seems disconnected from the 
remainder of the El Camino Real facade.
6.	 It is an internal functional issue regarding the usage of the ground floor space, but visual access to the amenity of 
the Common Open Space along the length of the commercial ground floor is very limited.
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 6

--- page 99 ---
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.	 Utilize a lighter color palette. Colors shown on the illustrations below are for description purposes only. Colors that 
are appropriate for the site context should be selected.
2.	 Use colors to unify the facades.
3.	 Consider an alternate material for the ground floor columns (e.g., smooth stone).
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 7

--- page 100 ---
4.	 Consider open railings on the Hayward Avenue facade that are more similar to those on the adjacent multifamily 
structure.
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 8

--- page 101 ---
5.	 Consider additional landscaping along the boundary with the adjacent multifamily structure if privacy intrusion 
is a concern. One possibility given the needed height and limited planting bed would be to utilize bamboo as was 
approved recently for the Hillside Terraces mixed use project near Hillsdale Shopping Center - see photo examples 
below.
6.	 Consider additional windows at the ground floor opening onto the Common Open Space.
7.	 Modify landscape planting in the Hayward Avenue setback, if needed, to better relate to the streetscape treatment 
along the adjacent properties.
Rendell, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
One Hayward Avenue
Design Review Comments
December 4, 2019    Page 9

--- page 102 ---
1 Hayward Ave
Mixed-Use Development
Transportation Impact Analysis Report
Prepared for:
City of San Mateo
Prepared by:
March 2022

--- page 103 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
i
March 2022
Table of Contents
1.0
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...................................................................................................... 1-1
1.1 Project Trip Generation...................................................................................................... 1-1
1.2 Project Impacts .................................................................................................................. 1-1
1.2.1
Plus Project Conditions ................................................................................................. 1-1
1.2.2
Vehicle Miles Travelled ................................................................................................. 1-2
1.2.3
Pedestrian, Bicycle and Transit Analysis ....................................................................... 1-2
1.2.4
Site Access, On-site Circulation and Parking ................................................................. 1-2
2.0
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................... 2-4
2.1 Project Description ............................................................................................................ 2-4
2.2 Study Area......................................................................................................................... 2-4
2.3 Study Scope and Approach ................................................................................................ 2-4
2.4 Analysis Methodology ....................................................................................................... 2-7
2.5 Significance Criteria .......................................................................................................... 2-8
3.0
BASELINE CONDITIONS ..................................................................................................... 3-9
3.1 Existing Conditions ........................................................................................................... 3-9
3.1.1
Major Roadways in Study Area ...................................................................................... 3-9
3.1.2
Intersection Operations ................................................................................................. 3-9
3.1.3
Transit Facilities ......................................................................................................... 3-11
3.1.4
Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities ................................................................................. 3-13
3.2 Background Conditions ................................................................................................... 3-13
3.3 Cumulative Conditions .................................................................................................... 3-15
4.0
PROJECT CONDITIONS ...................................................................................................... 4-17
4.1 Project Travel Demand .................................................................................................... 4-17
4.1.1
Intersection Operations ............................................................................................... 4-18
4.1.2
Queuing Impacts ......................................................................................................... 4-18
4.2 Existing plus Project Conditions ...................................................................................... 4-18
4.3 Background plus Project Conditions ................................................................................ 4-21
4.3.1
Intersection Operations ............................................................................................... 4-21
4.3.2
Queuing Analysis......................................................................................................... 4-22
4.4 Cumulative plus Project Conditions ................................................................................. 4-22
4.4.1
Intersection Operations ............................................................................................... 4-22
4.4.2
Queuing Analysis......................................................................................................... 4-23
5.0
OTHER TRANSPORTATION IMPACTS ............................................................................. 5-25
5.1 Vehicle Miles Traveled Evaluation .................................................................................. 5-25
5.1.1
VMT Analysis .............................................................................................................. 5-25
5.1.2
VMT Mitigation ........................................................................................................... 5-26
5.2 Transit Facilities .............................................................................................................. 5-26
5.3 Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities ...................................................................................... 5-27
5.4 Site Access, Circulation and Parking Analysis ................................................................. 5-28
6.0
CONCLUSIONS ................................................................................................................... 6-31

--- page 104 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
ii
March 2022
Appendix A – Streetlight Data
Appendix B - ‘No Project’ Traffic Analysis Synchro Output
Appendix C – ‘Plus Project’ Traffic Analysis Synchro Output
Appendix D – Signal Warrant Analysis
Appendix E – Approved Project Trips
Appendix F - 1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan by Steer Group
List of Tables
Table 2-1 
Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions ...................................................... 2-8
Table 3-1 
Intersection Performance – Existing Conditions ............................................................... 3-10
Table 3-2 
Existing Bus Service ....................................................................................................... 3-11
Table 3-3 
Intersection Performance – Background Conditions ......................................................... 3-15
Table 3-4 
Intersection Performance – Cumulative Conditions .......................................................... 3-16
Table 4-1 
Trip Generation for Proposed Project ............................................................................... 4-17
Table 4-2 
Intersection Performance – Existing plus Project Conditions ............................................ 4-20
Table 4-3 
Queuing Analysis – Existing plus Project Conditions ....................................................... 4-21
Table 4-4 
Intersection Performance – Background plus Project Conditions ...................................... 4-22
Table 4-5 
Queuing Analysis – Background plus Project Conditions ................................................. 4-22
Table 4-6 
Intersection Performance – Cumulative plus Project Conditions ...................................... 4-23
Table 4-7 
Queuing Analysis – Cumulative plus Project Conditions.................................................. 4-24
Table 5-1 
Summary of Project VMT ............................................................................................... 5-26
List of Figures
Figure 2-1 
Project Site Plan ............................................................................................................ 2-5
Figure 2-2 
Project Vicinity and Intersections .................................................................................. 2-6
Figure 3-1 
Intersection Geometry ................................................................................................. 3-10
Figure 3-2 
Existing Traffic Volumes ............................................................................................. 3-10
Figure 3-3 
Existing Transit Facilities ............................................................................................ 3-12
Figure 3-4 
Existing Bicycle Facilities ........................................................................................... 3-14
Figure 3-5 
Background Intersection Traffic Volumes .................................................................... 3-15
Figure 3-6 
Cumulative Intersection Traffic Volumes..................................................................... 3-16
Figure 4-1 
Project Trip Distribution .............................................................................................. 4-19
Figure 4-2 
Project Only Traffic Volumes ...................................................................................... 4-20
Figure 4-3 
Existing plus Project Traffic Volumes.......................................................................... 4-20
Figure 4-4 
Background plus Project Traffic Volumes.................................................................... 4-21
Figure 4-5 
Cumulative plus Project Traffic Volumes .................................................................... 4-23

--- page 105 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
1-1
March 2022
1.0
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report presents the results of a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) conducted for a proposed mixed-
use complex located at 1 Hayward Avenue in the City of San Mateo, California.
The project involves the construction of a four-story building with 18 residential dwelling units (DU), a
small office of 4,650 square feet and 22 parking spaces.
The impacts of the proposed project were evaluated following the City of San Mateo’s adopted TIA
guidelines.  Roadway system operations were evaluated under the following study scenarios:

Existing Conditions

Existing plus Project Conditions

Background Conditions

Background plus Project Conditions

Cumulative Conditions

Cumulative plus Project Conditions
Pedestrian, bicycle, and transit facilities were also evaluated.
1.1
Project Trip Generation
Project generated trips were estimated using vehicle trip rates published by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE, 10th Edition). The proposed project is estimated to generate a net of 12 AM peak hour
vehicle trips (eight inbound trips and four outbound trips) and 15 PM peak hour vehicle trips (six inbound
trips and nine outbound trips).
1.2
Project Impacts
This analysis identifies potentially significant adverse impacts of the proposed project, if any, on the
surrounding transportation system and recommends measures to mitigate significant impacts.  The VMT
analysis determined that the project would have a significant impact..  However, the transportation demand
management programs proposed are expected to mitigate the impacts to non-significant levels.
1.2.1
Plus Project Conditions
Intersection Analysis
Under all the ‘Plus Project’ conditions for all the three scenarios, both study intersections are expected to
operate within acceptable levels of service in the AM peak hour.  In the PM peak, Hayward Avenue, mid-
block between El Camino Real and Palm Avenue (Intersection #2), is expected to operate at the same level
of service (level A) as the ‘without project’ condition.  As for the intersection of S El Camino Real and
Hayward Avenue (Intersection #1), the level of service would improve from level F to level E with the
project.  This is because the Project would add more traffic to the westbound right-turn movement which
currently has additional capacity and operate better than the westbound approach as a whole.  In addition,
the queuing analysis results show that the project would have a negligible effect on queues at Intersection
#1, with no measurable change in queue length compared to the ‘without project’ conditions.  As such, the
project is not expected to impact both study intersections significantly for all three scenarios.

--- page 106 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
1-2
March 2022
1.2.2
Vehicle Miles Travelled
Based on the City’s Average VMT per Capita or per Employee by TAZ Maps, the expected VMT for the
residential portion of this project is 14.8 VMT/capita and that for the office portion is 22.2 VMT/employee.
Both portions exceed the City’s respective threshold of 13.1 VMT/capita and 15.3/employee.
City’s VMT Threshold (0.85
of Regional Average)
Project VMT
(TAZ #3035)
Residential
13.1 VMT/capita
14.8 VMT/capita
Commercial (Office)
15.3 VMT/employee.
22.2 VMT/employee
A separate report (attached to this report as Appendix F), 1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan by Steer Group,
looked at transportation demand management programs for the project and indicated that  the project VMT
can be reduced to meet the City’s threshold through implementation of a series of transportation demand
management measures.  As such, the project’s VMT impacts are estimated to be mitigated to non-significant
levels.
1.2.3
Pedestrian, Bicycle and Transit Analysis
The project proposes installation of new sidewalks on El Camino Real and Hayward Avenue abutting the
project site, enhanced with new landscaping and building lightings.  The vehicular access along El Camino
Real will be closed, retaining only one vehicular access along Hayward Avenue.  Visitors accessing the
project by foot can enter via the main building entrance facing El Camino Real; residents have another
private pedestrian access next to the vehicular driveway along Hayward Avenue.  Apart from providing
sufficient long-term secured bicycle parking for its residents and tenants, bike racks that can accommodate
up to four bicycles will be provided along the El Camino Real sidewalk.  The project is not expected to
have significant impacts on the pedestrian, bicycle, and transit infrastructure in the vicinity.  There are no
design features that would interfere with these facilities.  The planned improvements for these facilities in
the project vicinity, like those outlined in the City’s Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan and Bicycle Master
Plan, are expected to accommodate the additional usage.  There would also not be delay at any of the study
intersections to transit services due to the project trips.  Closure of the El Camino Real driveways would,
in fact, improve the cycling and walking experience along El Camino Real as conflicts with turning vehicles
would be removed.  It is recommended that visual warning signs be installed at the driveway to alert drivers,
pedestrians, and cyclists of potential conflicts due to the slight increase in vehicle movements as a result of
the project.
1.2.4
Site Access, On-site Circulation and Parking
The project proposes to retain only the driveway along Hayward Avenue and close off the driveways along
El Camino Real.  The access has a right-in-right-out configuration as Hayward Avenue is divided and there
is no median opening to allow direct eastbound access.  As such, drivers approaching the project from
eastbound Hayward Avenue will have to make a U-turn mid-block at the landscaped median opening.  The
24-foot-wide driveway meets the City design standards and lead to the project’s below-grade parking
garage.  The parking stalls and aisle width of the dead-end garage also satisfy the City’s design

--- page 107 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
1-3
March 2022
requirements.  The project plan indicated that a stopping sight-distance of 155 feet at the access can be
provided.
The project proposes to include 22 vehicular parking spaces, of which two are ADA compliant and four are
Electric Vehicle ready.  The project also obtained a density bonus waiver to provide one parking space per
360 square feet instead of per 335 square feet of office space.  The project meets the City’s requirements
by providing 13 parking spaces for the proposed office, including one ADA compliant space and two
Electric Vehicle ready spaces.  The remaining nine parking spaces, which consist of one ADA compliant
space and two Electric Vehicle ready spaces, are allocated for the residential portion of the project.  The
residential parking also meets the revised parking ratio of 0.5 spaces per dwelling unit approved under the
density bonus program.  Correspondingly, the proposed number of EV ready spaces and ADA compliant
spaces for residents also meets the stipulated requirements.
The project meets the bicycle parking requirements by providing the required 19 long-term secured parking
spaces for its residents and tenants.  Four short-term parking spaces for visitors would be provided,
exceeding the required two short-term spaces.

--- page 108 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
2-4
March 2022
2.0
INTRODUCTION
This report presents the results of a Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) conducted for the proposed four-
story mixed-use building consisting of 18 residential dwelling units (DU), a small office and 22 parking
spaces located at 1 Hayward Avenue in the City of San Mateo, California.
The purpose of this TIA is to evaluate project-related transportation impacts and effects, including
performing VMT analysis as required by CEQA, reviewing local transportation network changes, and
reviewing the project's circulation plans.  Where necessary, mitigation measures and proposed
improvements will be included to address the CEQA impacts and network deficiencies.  The scope of work
was prepared in consultation with the City of San Mateo staff.
2.1
Project Description
Existing Site
The site is located at 1 Hayward Avenue.  The existing parcel consists of five residential units with office
space of approximately 1,115 square feet.  These units have frontage along El Camino Real (ECR) where
direct access is taken.  The site was calculated to be generating a total of 54 daily trips between the office
and residential units, with five and six trips in the AM and PM peak hour respectively.
Proposed Site
The project proposes to redevelop the parcel to a four-story mixed-use building with 18 residential dwelling
units (DU) and a small office space of 4,650 square feet. Figure 2-1 shows the Project site plan. The office
will be located on the first floor while the residential units will be located on the second to fourth floor.  In
addition, the project will also provide improvements to the sidewalk curb and gutter abutting the site.  New
bicycle and electric vehicle ready parking spaces will also be provided.  The project will have its driveway
on Hayward Avenue instead of along ECR.  The new proposal on its own, is expected a total 173 daily
trips, with 17 trips in the AM peak hour and 21 trips in the PM peak hour.
2.2
Study Area
The study area is bounded by Hayward Avenue to the south and ECR to the west.  The roadway impacts of
the proposed Project were evaluated by measuring the effect project traffic would have on intersection
operations.  A total of two intersections, as shown in Figure 2-2 and listed below, were selected as study
locations following consultation with the City of San Mateo staff.
1.
S ECR / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard
2.
Hayward Avenue, mid-block between ECR and Palm Avenue
2.3
Study Scope and Approach
Several scenarios were evaluated to identify the potential impacts of the project based on the CEQA
guidelines which included local circulation and transportation aspects like vehicle miles travelled and
transportation facilities.  In addition, this study also evaluated the project’s effect on several nearby
intersections (referred as ‘study intersections’ throughout the report) under six scenarios:

--- page 109 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
2-5
March 2022
Figure 2-1
Project Site Plan
Source: One Hayward Avenue LLC.

--- page 110 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
2-6
March 2022
Figure 2-2
Project Vicinity and Intersections

--- page 111 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
2-7
March 2022
1.
Existing Conditions - Existing intersection volumes obtained from StreetLight traffic data
extracted for weekdays between 04/01/2019-06/30/2019.
2.
Existing plus Project Conditions – Existing volumes plus trips from this proposed project.
3.
Background Conditions – Existing volumes plus trips from approved but not completed
projects.  This is defined as the Background without project conditions.
4.
Background plus Project Conditions – Background volumes from Scenario 3 plus trips from
this proposed project.
5.
Cumulative Conditions – Volumes for 2030 estimated from Existing volumes
6.
Cumulative plus Project Conditions – Cumulative volumes from Scenario 5 plus trips from
this proposed project.
Intersection LOS was analyzed for the weekday AM peak hour and PM peak hour.
This analysis was conducted during the COVID-19 Pandemic when different degrees of stay-home orders
were issued by the State and County of San Mateo.  As a result, the amount of traffic on the roadways
surrounding the project experienced significantly lower volumes than the pre-COVID conditions.  No actual
field data was collected.  The existing volumes were therefore extracted from ‘Streetlight (SL) Data’1 and
calibrated using the available field collected data for adjacent ECR/9th Avenue intersection.  Calibration
coded for data collection in SL allows for obtaining the adjusted volumes for study intersections based on
the proportions and comparisons of field count data to SL data.  The detail volume extraction sheets were
included in Appendix A.  In order to obtain the volumes for year 2030 (cumulative conditions), growth
factors for the studied roadways were determined from the C/CAG model plots AECOM extract for 2020
and 2030.  These factors were then applied to the existing volumes (determined above) to arrive at the 2030
intersection volumes.  As this project is relatively small in size, it was more conservative to assume that it
was not included in the model; project trips will be added to the estimated 2030 volumes to give the ‘with
project’ conditions.
2.4
Analysis Methodology
In accordance with the City of San Mateo’s Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines (July 16, 2020),
traffic operations are evaluated based on level of service (LOS), using the Highway Capacity Manual
(HCM) methodology.2  LOS is a qualitative description of traffic operations based on the amount of
congestion or delay experienced by motorists, ranging from LOS A (free-flowing conditions) to LOS F
(total breakdown with stop-and-go operations).
LOS ratings for unsignalized intersections are based on the weighted average control delay expressed in
seconds per vehicle for all approaches.  Control delay includes initial deceleration delay, queue move-up
time, stopped delay, and final acceleration delay.  For intersections under all-way stop control, the LOS is
1 Streetlight Data – Big Data for Data Mobility, uses location data from smart phones and navigation devices to measure vehicle,
transit, bike, and pedestrian traffic. Origin-Destination (OD), travel time, select link data etc. over different periods of time and day can
be obtained from their web-based platform.
2 Due to limitations in the most recent HCM editions (HCM 6th edition and HCM 2010) in reporting LOS and delay for unsignalized
intersections, this analysis uses the HCM 2000 methodology.

--- page 112 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
2-8
March 2022
reported as average for the intersection as a whole.  For intersections under two-way stop control, the LOS
is reported for the worst approach or lane group.  For this report, LOS and delay have been calculated using
Trafficware’s Synchro 11 software package.
Table 2-2 shows the thresholds for the different LOS conditions at unsignalized intersections.  For
unsignalized intersections operating at unacceptable LOS, the California Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (CA MUTCD) peak-hour signal warrant is also evaluated.
Table 2-1
Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions
Level of Service
Description
Average Control
Delay
(seconds/vehicle)
A
Little or no delay
delay ≤ 10.0
B
Short traffic delays
10.0 < delay ≤ 15.0
C
Average traffic delays
15.0 < delay ≤ 25.0
D
Long traffic delays
25.0 < delay ≤ 35.0
E
Very long traffic delays
35.0 < delay ≤ 50.0
F
Extreme traffic delays with intersection
capacity exceeded
delay > 50.0
Source: HCM 2000.
2.5
Significance Criteria
The City’s Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines prescribe a performance standard of LOS E for
unsignalized intersections; under this standard, LOS E or better is considered acceptable, while LOS F or
considered unacceptable.  A deficiency is identified if a proposed project does either of the following:
Triggers an intersection operating at acceptable LOS to operate at unacceptable LOS (from LOS E
or better to LOS F); or
Increases the average delay for an unsignalized study intersection that is already operating at
unacceptable LOS by 4.0 seconds or more.

--- page 113 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-9
March 2022
3.0
BASELINE CONDITIONS
This section describes baseline conditions against which “plus project” conditions are evaluated to
determine potential project impacts.  This section characterizes existing conditions in the vicinity of the
project in terms of roadways, traffic operations, transit service, and pedestrian and bicycle facilities, and
establishes future background and cumulative conditions without the project.
3.1
Existing Conditions
3.1.1
Major Roadways in Study Area
Local access to the Project site is provided by ECR, Hayward Avenue, and Palm Avenue.  These roadways
are described below.
El Camino Real (ECR) is a six-lane undivided north–south Arterial roadway with a posted speed of 35 mph
in the project vicinity and is officially designated a State Route (SR) 82.  Sidewalks and on-street parking
are provided on both sides of the street.
Hayward Avenue is a two-lane east–west Local roadway that features a 40-foot-wide landscaped median.
It is the southern border of the project site.  Sidewalks and on-street parking are provided on both sides of
Hayward Avenue.  A median break is provided immediately east of the project site, approximately mid-
block between ECR and Palm Avenue, to permit U-turn movements.  West of ECR, Hayward Avenue
connects directly to Aragon Boulevard which is a two-lane east–west Collector roadway.  Sidewalks and
on-street parking are provided on both sides of Aragon Boulevard.
Palm Avenue is a two-lane bidirectional north–south Collector / Local roadway.  Palm Avenue
accommodates Class II bikeways (bike lanes), and sidewalks and on-street parking are provided on both
sides of the street.
3.1.2
Intersection Operations
Existing traffic counts for the two study intersections were obtained from Streetlight Data during the
weekday morning (7:00-9:00 AM) and evening (4:00-6:00 PM) peak periods between April to June 2019.
Figure 3-1 and Figure 3-2 show the intersection geometry and existing traffic volumes respectively.  The
performance of each intersection is presented in Table 3-1.  The results of the LOS calculations indicate
that both of the study intersections operate at acceptable levels of service except for Intersection #1 (South
ECR / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard) during the weekday PM peak hour.  The westbound approach
at this intersection currently operates at LOS F during the weekday PM peak hour.  However, the
intersection does not satisfy the peak hour warrant during the weekday PM peak hour.  Intersection LOS
and signal warrant worksheets are presented in Appendix B and Appendix D, respectively.

--- page 114 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-10
March 2022
Figure 3-1
Intersection Geometry
Figure 3-2
Existing Traffic Volumes
Table 3-1
Intersection Performance – Existing Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Standard
Weekday AM
Peak Hour
Weekday PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
1
South ECR/ Hayward Avenue –
Aragon Blvd
E
D
28.1
F
50.1
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block between S.
ECR and Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021

9 (7)

0 (0)

3 (5)

16 (19)

4 (7)

13 (16)






XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












76 (62)
1343 (1618)
6 (5)
28 (46)
17 (7)
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
15 (25)
1415 (1785)
48 (21)
18 (23)
ECR
2
Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
-
40 (33)
0 (0)
0 (0)
2 (2)
0 (0)
0 (0)
Hayward Ave
Hayward Ave

--- page 115 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-11
March 2022
3.1.3
Transit Facilities
Existing transit service in the study area is illustrated in Figure 3-3.
Transit service is provided primarily by San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) buses, including
routes ECR and 397 along ECR; routes 250 and 295 along 4th Avenue / 5th Avenue; and Route 292 along
Delaware Street. Detailed information on these routes is provided in Table 3-2.
Table 3-2
Existing Bus Service
Route
Description
Headways
Closest Bus
Stop
Distance
from Project
Site
Weekdays
Saturdays,
Sundays,
and
Holidays
Peak
and
Midday
Off-
Peak
ECR
Daly City BART –
Palo Alto Transit
Center
15
15–30
20–30
ECR at 9th Ave.
500 feet
250
5th / ECR – College of
San Mateo
30
30
60
West 5th Ave. at
ECR
2,000 feet
295
San Mateo Caltrain –
Redwood City Caltrain
120
—
—
ECR at 5th Ave.
(southbound)
West 4th Ave. at
ECR
(northbound)
2,000 feet
397
San Francisco – San
Francisco International
Airport – Palo Alto
Transit Center
Hourly owl service only
ECR at 9th Ave.
500 feet
 Source: AECOM 2021
Within the study area, SamTrans also operates several school routes serving Borel Middle School, including
Route 53 along South Delaware Street and Route 55 along ECR.  These routes only operate weekdays, with
only one roundtrip (one morning inbound trip to the school and one afternoon outbound trip from the
school).
Supplementary transit service is provided by Caltrain commuter / regional rail service, which connects San
Francisco, the Peninsula, and the South Bay.  Two Caltrain stations are located slightly under one mile from
the project site: San Mateo at 1st Avenue in Downtown San Mateo (north of the project site) and Hayward
Park near 17th Avenue (south of the project site).

--- page 116 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-12
March 2022
Figure 3-3
Existing Transit Facilities

--- page 117 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-13
March 2022
3.1.4
Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities
Sidewalks are generally provided along both sides of all streets in the vicinity of the project site, including
streets abutting the project site (ECR and Hayward Avenue).  Marked crosswalks are typically only
provided at signalized intersections (e.g., ECR / 9th Avenue, ECR / 12th Avenue), but may also be provided
at selected unsignalized intersections (e.g., Palm Avenue / 9th Avenue, Palm Avenue / 12th Avenue). In
the case of unsignalized intersections, however, marked crosswalks are frequently only provided along
selected approaches.  Marked crosswalks are typically not provided at unsignalized intersections along
ECR.  Crosswalk markings vary and include both simple, low-visibility treatments (e.g., standard parallel
lines) and high-visibility treatments (e.g., continental or ladder striping).
The existing bikeway network for the City of San Mateo consists of four basic types of facilities:

Shared use paths, or Class I facilities as defined by Caltrans, provide an exclusive off-road
right-of-way for bicyclists and pedestrians, with minimal interruption by motorized traffic.

Bike lanes, or Class II facilities as defined by Caltrans, are on-road facilities that provide a
designated lane for bicyclists, adjacent to motorized traffic.  The bike lane may include a striped
buffer zone that provides horizontal separation between bicyclists and adjacent motorized
traffic.

Bike routes, or Class III facilities as defined by Caltrans, are facilities where one or more travel
lanes are shared by bicyclists and motorists.  This is typically designated by signage and / or
pavement markings indicating the roadway is shared by bicycles and automobiles.

Bike Boulevards as defined by Caltrans, following the Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA), are low-stress bikeways primarily located on low-volume, low-speed local roads.
Caltrans also defines Class IV facilities (separated bike lanes), which fall between Class I and Class II
facilities in terms of bicyclists’ level of safety and comfort.  Separated bike lanes are on-road facilities, but
are designated for the exclusive use of bicyclists, with physical separation from motorized traffic provided
by grade separation, flexible posts, inflexible physical barriers, on-street parking, or other treatments.  Class
IV bike lanes have been proposed in the City’s Bicycle Master Plan 2020 (near the project along B Street
and 3rd Avenue) but have not been constructed.
Bicycles are allowed on all streets in the City of San Mateo except freeways.  Existing bikeways in the
vicinity of the project site are limited and consist of Class II facilities (un-buffered bike lanes) and Class III
facilities (bike routes) along selected streets (e.g., Palm Avenue, Laurel Avenue, South B Street, 5th
Avenue, 9th Avenue, Delaware Street).
Existing bicycle facilities in the vicinity of the project site are illustrated in Figure 3-4.
3.2
Background Conditions
The Background Conditions scenario includes the effects of approved but not yet completed projects.
Based on input from City staff, there was one approved project in the vicinity of this development: a 225-
unit residential development at 408 E 4th Avenue of City of San Mateo.  It was determined that some of its
project trips would affect intersection #1 of this project along ECR.
Background Conditions traffic volumes were developed by adding the trips generated by the above project
to the existing traffic volumes.  The total traffic of the existing and approved project trips is presented in

--- page 118 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-14
March 2022
Figure 3-4
Existing Bicycle Facilities

--- page 119 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-15
March 2022
Figure 3-5.  Lane configurations for this scenario were assumed to remain unchanged from existing
conditions. Table 3-3 presents the analysis results and the analysis details are presented in Appendix B.
The approved projects would add trips to ECR, resulting in a slight increase in average delays relative to
Existing Conditions.  However, these differences did not affect the overall LOS.  Similar to Existing
Conditions, Intersection #1 (South ECR / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard) would operate at LOS F
during the weekday PM peak hour but would not satisfy the peak hour signal warrant.
Table 3-3
Intersection Performance – Background Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Standard
Weekday AM
Peak Hour
Weekday PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
1
South ECR / Hayward Avenue –
Aragon Blvd
E
D
28.3
F
50.4
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block between S.
ECR and Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021
Figure 3-5
Background Intersection Traffic Volumes
3.3
Cumulative Conditions
The Cumulative Conditions scenario reflects expected conditions in 2030, coinciding with horizon year for
the City’s current General Plan, Vision 2030.  Upon discussion with City staff, it was agreed that traffic
volume projections would be developed using growth factors calculated from the City/County Association
of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) travel demand forecasting model.
Based on the C/CAG model, it was determined that the segment of ECR abutting the project site could see
growth rates from 1.5% per year to 2.5% per year, depending on direction and time of the day.  These rates

9 (7)
0 (0)

3 (5)

16 (19)

4 (7)
13 (16)







XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
ECR
-
28 (46)
15 (25)
1419 (1795)
18 (23)
40 (33)
17 (7)
2 (2)
48 (21)
0 (0)
Hayward Ave
76 (62)
1354 (1625)
6 (5)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave

--- page 120 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
3-16
March 2022
appeared to be reasonable given the nature of the study area, consisting of established neighborhoods with
few undeveloped parcels, with modest future growth attributable to redevelopment of existing lots and new
development on selected lots.
For Hayward Avenue, the C/CAG model forecasts growth rates between 1.8% per year and 6.0% per year
depending on direction and time of day.  Given that the immediate vicinity of the project is considered
relatively developed and that Hayward Avenue is not a major arterial roadway, a 6.0% annual growth rate
for peak-hour traffic was considered relatively high but was conservatively retained for use in the analysis.
Figure 3-6 presents the intersection volumes under Cumulative Conditions.
The results of the intersection analysis under Cumulative Conditions are presented in Table 3-4.  As shown
in Table 3-4, increased traffic levels in the future would result in increased delays at Intersection #1, with
LOS degrading to LOS E during the weekday AM peak hour.  However, the performance of Intersection
#2 would remain largely unchanged from Background Conditions, and both intersections are expected to
operate at acceptable conditions (LOS E or better) with the exception of Intersection #1 during the weekday
PM peak hour.  This intersection would satisfy the peak hour signal warrant during the weekday PM peak
hour.
Figure 3-6
Cumulative Intersection Traffic Volumes
Table 3-4
Intersection Performance – Cumulative Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Standard
Weekday AM
Peak Hour
Weekday PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
LOS
Average
Delay
(sec)
1
South ECR / Hayward Avenue –
Aragon Blvd
E
E
42.4
F
56.9
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block between S.
ECR and Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021

11 (8)
0 (0)

4 (6)

20 (22)

5 (8)
17 (19)






XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












90 (75)
1597 (1960)
7 (6)
 ()
 ()
 ()
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave
Hayward Ave
Hayward Ave
ECR
-
76 (111)
19 (29)
1766 (2045)
22 (26)
71 (46)
46 (17)
4 (3)
131 (51)
 ()
 ()
 ()
0 (0)

--- page 121 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-17
March 2022
4.0
PROJECT CONDITIONS
This chapter looks at the future transportation conditions in the study area as a result of the proposed project
in terms of intersection operations.  Trips generated by the proposed development are added to the ‘no
project’ scenarios discussed in the earlier chapter to determine the effects of this project.  Any mitigation
measures necessary to alleviate potential impacts will also be discussed.
4.1
Project Travel Demand
This section presents travel demand estimates for the proposed project, including trip generation, trip
distribution, and trip assignment.
Trip generation (specifically, vehicle-trips) for the proposed project were estimated using trip rates from
the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) Trip Generation Manual (10th Edition, 2017) and are
summarized in Table 4-1.
As there are existing active uses at the site that would be demolished and expanded as part of the proposed
project, the trip generation calculation reflects net-new trips, with a trip credit (reduction) assumed for the
existing uses.  Based on input from City staff, existing land uses at the project site consist of a combination
of commercial and residential uses.  Given the size of the existing and proposed commercial (office) use,
the associated trips were estimated using ITE’s “Small Office” land use category.  Trips for the residential
use were estimated using the “Low-Rise Multifamily” and “Mid-Rise Multifamily” land use categories for
the existing and proposed uses, respectively.
Overall, the proposed project is estimated to generate a net-new travel demand of 12 vehicle-trips (eight
inbound trips and four outbound trips) during the weekday AM peak hour and 15 vehicle-trips (six inbound
trips and nine outbound trips) during the weekday PM peak hour.
Table 4-1
Trip Generation for Proposed Project
Land Use
Size
Unit
Daily
Rate
Daily
Trips
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour
Rate
In%
In
Out
%
Out
Total
Rate
In%
In
Out
%
Out
Total
Existing Land Use
Residential
(220)
5
DU 
7.32
36
0.46 
23% 
0 
77% 
2
2
0.56 
63% 
2 
37% 
1
3
Small Office
(712)
1.115
1,000
SF
16.19 
18
1.92 
83% 
2 
17% 
1
3
2.45 
32% 
1 
68% 
2
3
Total Existing
Trips
54
2
3
5
3
3
6
Proposed Land Use
Small Office
(712)
4.65
1,000
SF
16.19 
75
1.92 
83% 
8 
17% 
2
10
2.45 
32% 
4 
68% 
8
12
Residential
(221)
18
DU 
5.44
98
0.36 
26% 
2 
74% 
5
7
0.44 
61% 
5 
39% 
4
9
Total New
Trips
173
10
7
17
9
12
21
Net New
Trips
119
8
4
12
6
9
15
Notes:  
All rates are from Institute of Transportation Engineers, Trip Generation, 10th Edition
Residential Land Use 220 is Low Rise Multifamily and Residential Land Use 221 is Mid-Rise Multifamily
Source: Trip Generation Manual, 10th Edition (ITE, 2017)

--- page 122 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-18
March 2022
Trip distribution is defined as the direction of approach and departure that vehicles would use to arrive at
and depart from the site.  The trip distribution pattern of the traffic generated by the project onto the roadway
system was based on knowledge of the area, prevailing traffic patterns and the site access locations.  The
project trips were distributed and assigned to the study intersections for traffic impact determination based
on the trip distribution percentages shown in Figure 4-1.
It is assumed that half of the inbound project trips arriving via ECR to the north would make a left-turn
onto eastbound 9th Avenue and approach the project site via Palm Avenue.  This route avoids the
southbound left turn at the unsignalized intersection at ECR / Aragon Boulevard / Hayward Avenue and
the subsequent U-turn along Hayward Avenue to access the project site.  Similarly, it is also assumed that
half of the outbound project trips going to areas south of the project site would make a right turn onto ECR
follow by a U-turn at the signalized intersection at ECR / 9th Avenue to avoid the left turn onto ECR from
Hayward Avenue during peak hours.  The resulting project trip assignment at each of the study intersections
is presented in Figure 4-2.
4.1.1
Intersection Operations
A Project impact is determined by comparing the operating conditions of the ‘plus project’ and the ‘no
project’ scenarios.  The comparison table is shown in Table 4-2.  The total ‘plus project’ traffic volumes
for all the study intersections under the Existing Conditions are presented in Figure 4-3.
The results show that both study intersections are expected to operate within acceptable LOS with the
proposed project during both peak hours.  In particular, Intersection #1 during the weekday PM peak hour
would improve from LOS F to LOS E because the Project would add more traffic to the westbound right-
turn movement, which currently has additional capacity and operates better than the westbound approach
as a whole.  As all intersections would operate at acceptable conditions, a signal warrant analysis was not
conducted.
4.1.2
Queuing Impacts
A queuing analysis was also conducted for Intersection #1 (South ECR / Hayward Avenue – Aragon
Boulevard) to determine if the Project would cause any queues that would spill back to upstream
intersections or exceed the capacity of turn pockets.
Table 4-3 summarizes 95th percentile queues for Existing Conditions and Existing and Plus Project
Conditions.  There are no designated turn pockets provided at the intersection, although the eastbound
(Aragon Boulevard) approach operates with a de facto right-turn pocket due to a wide parking lane marked
as a red “NO STOPPING” zone.
4.2
Existing plus Project Conditions
The results show that the Project would have a negligible effect on queues at this intersection, with no
measurable change in queue length from Existing Conditions for either side-street approach (eastbound and
westbound Hayward Avenue) or for either left-turn movement from the major street (ECR).  None of the
queues would extend into upstream intersections.  Detailed information is included in the intersection LOS
worksheets provided in Appendix C.

--- page 123 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-19
March 2022
Figure 4-1
Project Trip Distribution

--- page 124 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-20
March 2022
Table 4-2
Intersection Performance – Existing plus Project Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Stan-
dard
Existing
Conditions
Existing plus Project
Conditions
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
1
S. ECR / Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
E
D 
28.1
F 
50.1
D 
25.9 
E
41.1
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block
between S. ECR and
Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
A
7.1
A
7.0
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021
Figure 4-2
Project Only Traffic Volumes
Figure 4-3
Existing plus Project Traffic Volumes

3 (7)
0 (0)

0 (0)

2 (1)

1 (2)
0 (0)







XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
ECR
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
4 (3)
6 (5)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
2 (2)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave

12 (14)
0 (0)

3 (5)

18 (20)

5 (9)
13 (16)







XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
ECR
-
28 (46)
15 (25)
1415 (1785)
22 (26)
46 (38)
17 (7)
2 (2)
48 (21)
0 (0)
Hayward Ave
76 (62)
1343 (1618)
8 (7)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave

--- page 125 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-21
March 2022
Table 4-3
Queuing Analysis – Existing plus Project Conditions
Intersection
Approach/
Movement
Existing
Conditions
Existing plus Project
Conditions
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
1
S. ECR /
Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
NBL
0
5
0
5
SBL
0
0
0
0
EB
35
30
35
30
WB
10
20
10
20
*Queue length rounded up to nearest 5 feet
Source: AECOM, 2021
4.3
Background plus Project Conditions
4.3.1
Intersection Operations
The ‘with project volumes under the Background scenario are presented in Figure 4-4, while Table 4-4
presents the comparison of intersection performance between the ‘with project’ and ‘without project’
conditions under this scenario.  Both intersections are expected to operate within acceptable LOS with the
proposed project during both peak hours.  Similar to Existing plus Project Conditions, Intersection #1 would
improve LOS F to LOS E during the weekday PM peak hour because the Project would add more traffic to
the westbound right-turn movement, which would have additional capacity and would operate better than
the westbound approach as a whole.  As all intersections would operate at acceptable conditions, a signal
warrant analysis was not conducted.
Figure 4-4
Background plus Project Traffic Volumes

12 (14)
0 (0)

3 (5)

18 (20)

5 (9)
13 (16)







XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












Hayward Ave
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
ECR
-
28 (46)
15 (25)
1419 (1795)
22 (26)
46 (38)
17 (7)
2 (2)
48 (21)
0 (0)
Hayward Ave
76 (62)
1354 (1625)
8 (7)
0 (0)
0 (0)
0 (0)
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave

--- page 126 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-22
March 2022
Table 4-4
Intersection Performance – Background plus Project Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Stan-
dard
Background
Conditions
Background plus Project
Conditions
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
1
S. ECR / Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
E
D 
28.3
F 
50.4
D 
26.1 
E 
41.3
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block
between S. ECR and
Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
A
7.1
A
7.0
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021
4.3.2
Queuing Analysis
Table 4-5 summarizes the 95th percentile queues for Background Conditions and Background plus Project
Conditions.  The results show that the Project would have a negligible effect on queues, and none of the
queues would extend into upstream intersections.
Table 4-5
Queuing Analysis – Background plus Project Conditions
Intersection
Approach/
Movement
Background
Conditions
Background plus Project
Conditions
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
1
S. ECR /
Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
NBL
0
5
0
5
SBL
0
0
0
0
EB
35
30
35
30
WB
10
20
10
20
*Queue length rounded up to nearest 5 feet
Source: AECOM, 2021
4.4
Cumulative plus Project Conditions
4.4.1
Intersection Operations
The ‘with project’ volumes under the Cumulative scenario are presented in Figure 4-5 while Table 4-6
presents the comparison of intersection performance between the ‘with project’ and ‘without project’
conditions under this scenario.  Both intersections are expected to operate within acceptable LOS with the
proposed project during both peak hours.  Similar to Existing plus Project Conditions and Background plus
Project Conditions, Intersection #1 would improve LOS F to LOS E during the weekday PM peak hour

--- page 127 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-23
March 2022
because the Project would add more traffic to the westbound right-turn movement, which would have
additional capacity and would operate better than the westbound approach as a whole.  As all intersections
would operate at acceptable conditions, a signal warrant analysis was not conducted.
Figure 4-5
Cumulative plus Project Traffic Volumes
Table 4-6
Intersection Performance – Cumulative plus Project Conditions
Intersection
LOS
Stan-
dard
Cumulative
Conditions
Cumulative plus Project
Conditions
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
Weekday
AM
Peak Hour
Weekday
PM
Peak Hour
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
LOS
Avg.
Del.
(sec)
1
S. ECR / Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
E
E 
42.4
F 
56.9
E 
44.9 
E 
47.5
2
Hayward Ave. mid-block
between S. ECR and
Palm Ave.
E
A
7.0
A
6.9
A
7.1
A
7.0
*LOS and delay reported for worst approach for 2-way stop controlled intersections
*Bold indicates intersection operating at unacceptable conditions (LOS F).
Source: AECOM 2021
4.4.2
Queuing Analysis
Table 4-7 summarizes the 95th percentile queues for Cumulative Conditions and Cumulative plus Project
Conditions.  The results show that the Project would have a negligible effect on queues, and none of the
queues would extend into upstream intersections.

14 (15)
0 (0)

4 (6)

22 (23)

6 (10)
17 (19)






XX(YY) - AM(PM) Peak Hour Volumes
Aragon Blvd












90 (75)
1597 (1960)
9 (8)
 ()
 ()
 ()
1
ECR / Hayward Ave-Aragon Blvd
2
Hayward Ave
Hayward Ave
Hayward Ave
ECR
76 (111)
19 (29)
1766 (2045)
26 (29)
77 (51)
46 (17)
4 (3)
131 (51)
 ()
 ()
 ()
0 (0)

--- page 128 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
4-24
March 2022
Table 4-7
Queuing Analysis – Cumulative plus Project Conditions
Intersection
Approach/
Movement
Cumulative
Conditions
Cumulative plus Project
Conditions
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. AM
Peak Hour
Wkdy. PM
Peak Hour
1
S. ECR /
Hayward Ave.
– Aragon Blvd.
NBL
5
5
5
5
SBL
0
0
0
0
EB
80
70
80
75
WB
15
25
20
30
*Queue length rounded up to nearest 5 feet
Source: AECOM, 2021
.

--- page 129 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-25
March 2022
5.0 
OTHER TRANSPORTATION IMPACTS
This section discusses the effects of the project on other aspects of transportation according to the CEQA
requirements.  The discussion will touch on the project’s impact on vehicle miles traveled (VMT), facilities
related to transit, pedestrian and bicycle.  This section also evaluates if the proposed project access,
circulation and parking meet the City’s design standards and requirements or will the proposed features
impede emergency access
5.1
Vehicle Miles Traveled Evaluation
In September 2013, California Governor Jerry Brown signed Senate Bill (SB) 743 into law, eliminating
level of service (LOS) and other measures of automobile delay or congestion as metrics for determining the
significance of transportation impacts under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  The
updated CEQA Guidelines now require the use of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) for evaluating
transportation impacts.
Based on City Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, the City has adopted thresholds of significance
to determine when a project will have a significant transportation impact based on VMT, consistent with
CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3.  A detailed VMT analysis is required for a land use development project
unless it meets one of the City’s five screening criteria for VMT analysis streamlining:
Small projects
Provision of affordable housing
Local-serving retail
Project located in a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA)
Project located in low VMT area
This project does not meet any of these screening criteria; the total daily trips is greater than the small
project limit of 110 trips (daily project trips = 119 trips), it is not an affordable housing project nor a local
serving retail project, it is also not located in a HQTA or in a low VMT area.  As such, further VMT analysis
needs to be performed to ascertain if the expected VMT of the project falls within the City’s threshold.
Otherwise, the project would be considered to have significant VMT impacts and mitigation measures will
be needed.
5.1.1
VMT Analysis
The City’s VMT analysis criteria for mixed-use developments such as this project ask for each component
of the development to be assessed separately since none of the land use dominates 80% or more of the total
daily trips.  For residential projects, the regional average VMT is 15.5 VMT/capita which corresponds to a
threshold VMT of 13.1 VMT/capita.  For office project, the regional average is 18.0 VMT/employee and
the corresponding threshold for office is 15.3 VMT/employee.
Based on the City’s Average VMT per Capita or per Employee by TAZ Maps3, the expected VMT for the
residential portion of this project is 14.8 VMT/capita and that for the office portion is 22.2 VMT/employee.
3 VMT Screening Maps, Attachment B City of San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, July 16, 2020

--- page 130 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-26
March 2022
Table 5-1 below presents the comparison of the project’s VMT.  As can be seen, both portions of the project
are expected to have VMT higher than the City’s threshold, with the office VMT expected to be even higher
than the regional average.  The project is therefore considered to have significant VMT impacts and
mitigation measures are needed.
Table 5-1
Summary of Project VMT
Regional Average
City’s VMT Threshold
(0.85 of Regional Average)
Project VMT
(TAZ #3035)
Residential
15.5 VMT/capita
13.1 VMT/capita
14.8 VMT/capita
Commercial (Office)
18.0 VMT/employee
15.3 VMT/employee.
22.2 VMT/employee
5.1.2
VMT Mitigation
In order to mitigate the potential VMT impacts discussed above, the City engaged a VMT consultant, Steer
Group, to examine what transportation demand management (TDM) measures could be implemented to
alleviate these impacts.
The detail TDM study report prepared by Steer, 1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan, has been attached to this
report as Appendix F.  The study found that there are programs that can be implemented to reduce the
expected VMT impacts to less than significant levels.
From Table A.4 of Steer’s TDM Plan, it was determined that the project will generate 25 residential
commuters and 45 employee commuters.  Given the expected project VMT/capita and VMT/Employee is
14.8 and 22.2 respectively, a reduction of at least 1.7 VMT/capital and 6.9 VMT/employee would be needed
in order to meet the City thresholds (13.1 VMT/capital and 15.3 VMT/employee).  Table 17 of the TDM
Plan shows that the total reduction needed is therefore:
Total Daily Residential VMT reduction needed: (14.8 – 13.1) VMT/capita * 25 residential
commuters = 42.5
Total Daily Commercial VMT reduction needed: (22.2 – 15.3) VMT/employee * 45 employee
commuters = 310.5
Total Daily VMT reduction needed = 42.5 + 310.5 = 353
Table 18 of the TDM Plan indicated that the recommended measures could lead to a daily VMT reduction
that ranges from 366 (low) to 712 (high).  This is greater than the required reduction of 353.  The VMT
reduction would be higher if the proposed ‘Optional TDM Program’ is also implemented.  As such, the
proposed TDM programs would be able to mitigate the expected VMT impacts of the project to less than
significant levels.  Table 19 of the TDM Plan details the expected VMT reduction of each individual TDM
measure recommended for this project.
5.2
Transit Facilities
The transit infrastructure in the project vicinity is expected to support the project usage under the ‘plus
project’ conditions.  The nearest bus stops to the project site are about 500 feet north, along ECR, near San
Mateo Central Park.  With the City’s plan to increase bus ridership as outlined in its General Plan – Vision
2030, bus services would continue to serve the project vicinity and are therefore expected to accommodate

--- page 131 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-27
March 2022
the increased usage by the project.  In addition, the transit stops would also have capacity to accommodate
more waiting passengers from the project.
With respect to intersection delay experience by transit due to the added project trips, only study intersection
#1 lies along the route for SamTrans Line ECR and Line 397.  The project will not have significant impacts
on these two transit services because the north and southbound through movements of ECR at intersection
#1 are uninhibited.  The expected project trips would not interfere with the services going through ECR.
Intersection analysis described in Chapter indicated that there are no delays for the north and southbound
through-movements under both the ‘with’ and ‘without’ project scenarios.  As such, the project does not
conflict with any program/plan/ordinance or policy addressing the transit facilities and is considered to be
less than significant under CEQA.
5.3
Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities
The project site currently has several driveways along ECR.  With the new project, these driveways will be
closed.  As such, coupled with the enhanced landscaping proposed, the project will improve the pedestrian
experience along ECR abutting the project.  These modifications coincide with the City’s Goal 2 (Safety)
“to improve pedestrian safety through design and maintenance of sidewalks, streets….” and Goal 3
(Infrastructure and Support Facilities) Objective 3B to “provide maintained walkways that are clean, safe
and encourage use” as outlined in the City of San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan (City of San
Mateo, 2012).
The existing streetlight (currently only one along ECR) will be retained, but new lighting will be installed
to illuminate the building facade and doorway providing additional lighting to the surrounding sidewalks.
The curb-cut ramp leading to Hayward Avenue will be retained.  Concrete pavers will be used to line the
surrounding sidewalks, improving them aesthetically as well.
While the current access along Hayward Avenue will be retained under the proposed project, existing access
along ECR will be removed.  As a result, conflicts between pedestrians and motorized vehicles along ECR
will be eliminated.  However, the slight increase in the number of trips (up to 15 trips in the PM peak hour
or one trip every four minutes) using the Hayward Avenue access increases the frequency of pedestrians
encountering a turning motorized vehicle.  It is therefore proposed, after consultation with the City, that
visual warning signs to remind exiting drivers to look out for pedestrians and cyclists be installed near the
egress.  Visual warning devices are also recommended to warn pedestrians and cyclist of exiting vehicles.
The design of such warning devices, for both vehicles and pedestrians/cyclists, should be approved by the
City before installation if they deviate from the CA MUTCD provisions.
Overall, the project is not expected to result in adverse impacts on the surrounding pedestrian infrastructure;
the infrastructure is expected to accommodate the increase usage by project residents, tenants and visitors.
The City’s Pedestrian Master Plan identified several pedestrian oriented improvements in the immediate
project vicinity; implementation of high visibility crosswalks at the intersections of Palm Avenue / Hayward
Avenue and ECR / Aragon Boulevard as well as the installation of pedestrian scale lightings along ECR
and Hayward Avenue (between Palm Avenue and ECR).  The project has no design features that would
interfere with the existing and planned infrastructure for the safe and secure movement of pedestrians.
Similarly, the project is not expected to cause adverse impacts on the surrounding bicycle infrastructure as
it is expected to accommodate the usage by the proposed project.  In the future, according to the City’s
Bicycle Master Plan (City of San Mateo, April 2020), a new bike boulevard has been planned for Hobart

--- page 132 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-28
March 2022
Avenue / 12th Avenue about three blocks south of the project site.  There are also plans to provide 9th
Avenue, east of ECR, with bike lanes and upgrade the western section to a bike boulevard.
The project will provide bike racks along the sidewalk abutting ECR that can accommodate up to 4 bicycles
in addition to meeting the bike parking provision for its residents and tenants.  There are no design features
that will interfere with the movement, safety and security of cyclists in the project vicinity.  Providing the
required bike parking spaces supports the City’s goal (Goal 5, San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan) to increase
bike use while reducing the dependency of driving.  The closure of existing driveways along ECR will
reduce cyclists’ exposure to conflict with other motorized vehicles.  This is in line with the City’s goal to
improve and increase cyclists’ safety, comfort and security as outlined in its Bicycle Master Plan (Goal 2).
As discussed above, it is recommended, after consulting with the City, that visual warning signs be installed
near the egress to remind exiting drivers to look out for crossing pedestrians and cyclists.  Visual warning
devices are also recommended to warn pedestrians and cyclists of exiting vehicles.
While the project would increase the amount of vehicle movement at the existing driveway location,
additional features can be put in place to enhance the safe interaction between vehicles going in/out of the
project and crossing pedestrians and cyclists.  On the other hand, the elimination of accesses along ECR
completely removes the current hazards caused by turning vehicles.  Therefore, the project overall does not
conflict with any program/plan/ordinance or policy addressing the pedestrian and bicycle facilities and is
considered to be less than significant under CEQA.
5.4
Site Access, Circulation and Parking Analysis
This project proposes to provide one access along Hayward Avenue.  This access will be right-in-right-out
as Hayward Avenue is divided.  Drivers can either use Palm Avenue follow by Hayward Avenue or use
eastbound Hayward Avenue (from ECR) follow by a U-turn to the access on westbound Hayward Avenue.
The provision of project driveway along Hayward Avenue, instead of along ECR, is in line with the City’s
General Plan Policy C1.2 to minimize curb cuts on arterial streets like ECR and the City’s Zoning Code
27.64.025 that prohibits new access on arterial streets.  The proposed access is not a new or additional
access along Hayward Avenue as the existing use already has a driveway along Hayward Avenue at the
project proposed driveway location as part of the existing development.  But by removing the existing
accesses along ECR, this project reduces conflicts along the arterial.
Drivers upon entering the project complex will head towards the parking below grade via a two-way ramp.
The proposed curb-to-curb width of the ramp is 24 feet, meeting the City minimum design criterion of 24
feet.  The driveway then leads to below-grade parking garage with 90-degree, mostly compact parking
spaces.  The width of the two-way parking aisle is proposed to be 24 feet which meets the minimum design
requirement for a dead-end aisle.  The driveway and aisle widths  also meet the City’s design requirements.
The widths of the parking stalls range from eight feet to 10 feet, meeting the City’s design requirements for
the different regular parking stall types4.  The ADA compliant stalls have a total proposed width of 17 feet,
consisting of 12 feet of parking area and five feet of loading area.  This satisfies the City’s design
requirement of five feet of loading area and at least nine feet of parking area.  Since the signing and striping
plan is not provided for evaluation at this point, it is recommended that the driveway be stop-controlled.  In
addition, after consultation with the City, it is agreed that visual warning signs to remind exiting drivers to
look out for pedestrians and cyclists should be installed near the egress.  Visual warning devices should
4 City of San Mateo Parking Standard Drawings
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/8009/PW_Parking_Standard-Specifications?bidId=

--- page 133 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-29
March 2022
also be installed to warn pedestrians and cyclists of exiting vehicles.  The designs of such warning devices,
for both vehicles and pedestrians/cyclists, should comply with provisions of the CA MUTCD and should
be approved by the City before installation.
The project proposes to provide a total of 22 parking spaces, which includes two stalls for electric vehicles
(EV), one EV capable stall and two ADA compliant spaces of which one stall is for an EV.
According to the information provided by the City, the City has approved the project applicant’s request
for density bonus waiver under California Government Code section 65915, to allow an increase in the
commercial parking ratio from one stall per 335 square feet to one stall per 360 square feet.  The project
meets the requirement stated in Zoning Code 27.16.060 Clause (b)(2) as ‘at least five percent of the total
units are designated for very low-income households’; the project proposes to devote two such units (11%).
As such, the project needs to provide at least 13 spaces for the proposed 4,650 square feet of office use.
The project satisfies this parking requirement by proposing 13 office parking spaces.
The submitted project plan indicated that the nine residential parking spaces proposed were determined
based on City of San Mateo Zoning Code 27.64.100.  This section of the code, however, dictates parking
requirements for the Downtown Specific Planning Area, outside of where the project is located.  The
southern boundary of the Downtown Planning Area is 9th Avenue, one block north of the project site.
Therefore, based on the general parking requirements stipulated by Zoning Code 27.64.160, the project
instead needs to provide at least one space per dwelling unit (DU) for the 16 non-affordable housing units.
For one-bedroom apartments, the required parking provision outside the downtown area is 1.8 spaces per
DU which equates to 29 spaces.  However, the project qualifies for density bonus waivers and incentives
since more than five percent of the total units are set aside for very low-income housing as approved by the
City.  The revised parking ratio that the project needs to satisfy is 0.5 spaces per DU which equates to nine
parking spaces.  The proposed number of residential parking spaces therefore meets this requirement.
The ADA parking requirement is based on the California Building Code Title 24 Part 2 Chapter 11B.
According to Table 11B-208.2, one ADA compliant space is needed for the proposed office (based on 13
number of total proposed office spaces) and one ADA compliant space is needed for the residential units,
totaling to two ADA spaces.  The project, providing two ADA compliant spaces, meets these requirements.
The City’s code5 requires that at least 15 percent of the parking spaces provided be ready for EVs.
Therefore, based on the required number of spaces for the residential units (nine spaces), two spaces would
need to be provided for EVs.  The project is proposing two such spaces for the residential portion to satisfy
the City’s requirement.  The City also requires 10 percent of the total number of parking spaces provided
(if >10 spaces) for non-residential facilities to be EV capable6.  Given the proposed 13 spaces for the office,
at least two spaces would need to be EV capable and the project meets this requirement.
The project plans to provide 19 long-term and four short-term bicycle parking spaces to meet City’s
requirement.  Long-term bicycle parking is defined as lockable facilities like individual lockers or enclosed,
locked, limited access areas for parking of bicycles7.  Short-term bicycle parking refers to bicycle racks
accessible to visitors, customers and others expected to park less than two hours.  Based on the City’s
requirements, 18 long-term and one short-term bicycle parking spaces should be provided for the residential
units.  For the proposed office use, one long term and one short-term bicycle parking are needed.  The total
5 City of San Mateo Municipal Code 23.70.040
6 City of San Mateo Municipal Code 23.70.050
7 City of San Mateo Municipal Code 27.64.262

--- page 134 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
5-30
March 2022
number of long-term and short-term bicycle spaces needed are 19 and two respectively.  The project
therefore meets this requirement by proposing 19 long-term and four short-term bicycle parking spaces.
The project plan indicated that a stopping sight distance of 155 feet can be achieved for drivers exiting the
project driveway to Hayward Avenue (posted speed limit of 25mph).
Based on the discussion above, the project would not cause an increase in hazards due to less-than desirable
geometric design features nor result in inadequate emergency access to the site and its surrounding by
meeting City’s design requirements.  The project is therefore considered to have less than significant
impacts in these areas under CEQA.

--- page 135 ---
Report
1 Hayward Ave
6-31
March 2022
6.0
CONCLUSIONS
This section summarizes the evaluation results for the TIA conducted for the proposed 18 DU, a small
office of 4,650 square feet and 22 parking spaces development located at 1 Hayward Avenue in the City of
San Mateo, California.
The evaluation concludes the following:
Under the three ‘with project’ scenarios, the Project is not expected to bring about any significant LOS
impacts at the two study intersections in terms of delays as well as queue lengths.  The intersections are
expected to operate within acceptable levels with the Project and it is not expected to result in any
measurable change in queue lengths at Intersection #1 (S. ECR / Hayward Ave–Aragon Boulevard).
The project will not have significant impacts on the surround transit facilities in terms of design, intersection
delay and usage.  The project does not have features that would hinder the operation, movement, and safety
of transit services.  The project trips would also not delay the transit services at any of the study intersections
and the infrastructure is expected to accommodate the increase usage.
The project proposes to close off all the current accesses along ECR, retaining only the one access along
Hayward Avenue that will lead to the project’s below grade parking garage.  The closure of the accesses
along ECR, coupled with the enhanced sidewalk abutting the project site, will improve the pedestrian and
cycling experience by reducing exposure to motorized vehicles turning in/out of the project.  Due to the
slight increase of vehicular traffic at the Hayward Avenue access as a result of the project, installation of
visual warning signs for drivers, pedestrians and cyclists is recommended.  The project can achieve a
driveway stopping sight-distance of 155 feet as indicated on the plans.  The project is not expected to have
adverse impacts to the surrounding pedestrian and bicycle facilities.  The planned improvements to these
facilities are expected to accommodate the usage by project residents, tenants and visitors.  In addition, the
project does not have design features that would conflict with the movement, safety and security of
pedestrians and cyclists.
The residential and office VMT of the project is expected be 14.8 VMT/capita and 22.2 VMT/employee
respectively.  These exceed the City’s threshold for residential and office VMT of 13.1 VMT/Capita and
15.3 VMT/employee, respectively.  A separate TDM plan, attached in Appendix F, details a comprehensive
TDM program for the project.  It indicated that by implementing a suite of recommended measures, the
expected VMT impacts can be reduced to less than significant levels.
The proposed number of parking spaces for residents meets the required parking ratio approved under the
density bonus program.  The project is providing nine spaces for the residents, including two EV ready
spaces and one ADA compliant space.  The project also meets the parking requirements for the proposed
office use by providing 13 spaces that include two EV ready spaces and one ADA compliant space.
The project meets the City’s bicycle parking requirements by providing required 19 long-term secured
parking spaces and four short-term spaces (two required) for visitors.

--- page 136 ---
APPENDICES

--- page 137 ---
APPENDIX A
Streetlight Data

--- page 138 ---
Int 1 - Hayward and ECR
Mode of Travel
Origin
Zone ID
Origin
Zone
Name
Origin
Zone Is
Pass-
Through
Origin
Zone
Direction
(degrees)
Origin
Zone is Bi-
Direction
Destination
Zone ID
Destination
Zone Name
Destination
Zone Is Pass-
Through
Destination
Zone
Direction
(degrees)
Destination
Zone is Bi-
Direction
Day Type
Day Part
Average Daily
O-D Traffic
(StL
Calibrated
Average Daily
Origin Zone
Traffic (StL
Calibrated
Average Daily
Destination Zone
Traffic (StL
Calibrated Index)
Avg Trip
Duration
(sec)
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
70
114
1551
6
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
26
74
1422
21
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
14
63
1729
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
28
91
1883
6
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
26
114
1501
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
30
74
1625
15
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
39
63
1812
9
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
52
91
2197
9
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
15
114
30
9
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
18
74
61
75
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
8
63
28
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
29 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
6
91
54
8
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
20
1380
137
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
10
1524
74
3
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
23
1651
80
10
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
26
2026
119
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
1348
1380
1501
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
1481
1524
1625
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
1611
1651
1812
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
1958
2026
2197
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
7
1380
30
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
29
1524
61
2
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
9
1651
28
3
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
NB_IN
yes
312 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
36
2026
54
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
96
1494
137
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
56
1368
74
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
46
1618
80
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
77
1764
119
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
1391
1494
1551
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
1294
1368
1422
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
1558
1618
1729
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
1678
1764
1883
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
4
1494
30
19
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
7
1368
61
7
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
6
1618
28
9
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
SB_IN
yes
138 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
4
1764
54
7
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
3
23
137
12
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
2
12
74
9
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
2
19
80
8
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
209 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
7
20
119
11
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
5
23
1551
7
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
3
12
1422
3
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
5
19
1729
13
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
NB_OUT
yes
132 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
8
20
1883
28
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
14
23
1501
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
4
12
1625
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
9
19
1812
7
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
SB_OUT
yes
318 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
5
20
2197
8
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
WB_OUT
yes
48 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
2
12
61
57

--- page 139 ---
Int 2 - Aragon_Hayward
Mode of Travel
Origin
Zone ID
Origin
Zone
Name
Origin
Zone Is
Pass-
Through
Origin
Zone
Direction
(degrees)
Origin
Zone is Bi-
Direction
Destination
Zone ID
Destination
Zone Name
Destination
Zone Is Pass-
Through
Destination
Zone
Direction
(degrees)
Destination
Zone is Bi-
Direction
Day Type
Day Part
Average Daily
O-D Traffic (StL
Calibrated
Index)
Average Daily
Origin Zone
Traffic (StL
Calibrated
Index)
Average Daily
Destination Zone
Traffic (StL
Calibrated Index)
Avg Trip
Duration
(sec)
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
26
29
25
5
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
54
62
61
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
23
27
31
6
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
43
55
63
7
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
1
29
21
42
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
2
62
13
15
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
1
27
18
3
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
EB_IN
yes
47 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
2
55
21
4
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
0
10
61
N/A
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
2
22
31
38
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
EB_OUT
yes
47 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
9
32
63
13
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
08: 7am (7am-8am)
20
20
21
6
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
09: 8am (8am-9am)
6
10
13
50
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
17: 4pm (4pm-5pm)
16
22
18
11
All Vehicles - StL Calibrated All Vehicles Index
WB_IN
yes
225 no
WB_OUT
yes
231 no
1: Weekday (Tu-Th)
18: 5pm (5pm-6pm)
15
32
21
12

--- page 140 ---
APPENDIX B
‘No Project’ Traffic Analysis Synchro Output

--- page 141 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
28
17
48
4
3
9
15
1415
18
6
1343
76
Future Volume (Veh/h)
28
17
48
4
3
9
15
1415
18
6
1343
76
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
30
18
52
4
3
10
16
1538
20
7
1460
83
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.92
0.92
0.85
0.92
0.92
0.87
0.85
0.87
vC, conflicting volume
2072
3106
528
2090
3137
523
1543
1558
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
870
1998
0
890
2032
0
1021
1106
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
85
66
94
97
94
99
97
99
cM capacity (veh/h)
206
52
922
146
50
940
574
543
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
100
17
400
769
404
372
730
448
Volume Left
30
4
16
0
0
7
0
0
Volume Right
52
10
0
0
20
0
0
83
cSH
309
173
574
1700
1700
543
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.32
0.10
0.03
0.45
0.24
0.01
0.43
0.26
Queue Length 95th (ft)
34
8
2
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.2
28.1
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
D
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.2
28.1
0.2
0.1
Approach LOS
C
D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
50.2%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 142 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
40
2
0
13
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
40
2
0
13
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
43
2
0
14
17
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
17
2
133
133
2
133
133
17
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
88
88
45
45
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
45
45
88
88
vCu, unblocked vol
17
2
133
133
2
133
133
17
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1600
1620
785
700
1082
786
702
1062
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
45
31
0
0
Volume Left
43
14
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1600
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
7.7%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 143 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing PM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
7
21
7
5
7
25
1785
23
5
1618
62
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
7
21
7
5
7
25
1785
23
5
1618
62
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
8
23
8
5
8
27
1940
25
5
1759
67
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.87
0.87
0.81
0.87
0.87
0.77
0.81
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2514
3822
620
2607
3842
659
1826
1965
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
729
2236
0
836
2260
0
1196
1219
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
78
76
97
95
85
99
94
99
cM capacity (veh/h)
224
34
878
171
33
838
469
439
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
81
21
512
970
510
445
880
507
Volume Left
50
8
27
0
0
5
0
0
Volume Right
23
8
0
0
25
0
0
67
cSH
276
100
469
1700
1700
439
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.29
0.21
0.06
0.57
0.30
0.01
0.52
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
30
18
5
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.5
50.1
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
F
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.5
50.1
0.4
0.1
Approach LOS
C
F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
66.4%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 144 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing PM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
33
2
0
16
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
33
2
0
16
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
36
2
0
17
21
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
21
2
129
129
2
129
129
21
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
74
74
55
55
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
55
55
74
74
vCu, unblocked vol
21
2
129
129
2
129
129
21
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
98
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1595
1620
792
705
1082
794
707
1056
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
38
38
0
0
Volume Left
36
17
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1595
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
6.9
3.3
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
6.9
3.3
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
6.9%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 145 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
28
17
48
4
3
9
15
1419
18
6
1354
76
Future Volume (Veh/h)
28
17
48
4
3
9
15
1419
18
6
1354
76
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
30
18
52
4
3
10
16
1542
20
7
1472
83
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.92
0.92
0.85
0.92
0.92
0.87
0.85
0.87
vC, conflicting volume
2085
3122
532
2098
3153
524
1555
1562
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
871
2004
0
885
2039
0
1027
1107
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
85
65
94
97
94
99
97
99
cM capacity (veh/h)
205
52
919
146
49
939
570
542
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
100
17
402
771
406
375
736
451
Volume Left
30
4
16
0
0
7
0
0
Volume Right
52
10
0
0
20
0
0
83
cSH
307
172
570
1700
1700
542
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.33
0.10
0.03
0.45
0.24
0.01
0.43
0.27
Queue Length 95th (ft)
34
8
2
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.3
28.3
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
D
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.3
28.3
0.2
0.1
Approach LOS
C
D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
50.2%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 146 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
40
2
0
13
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
40
2
0
13
16
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
43
2
0
14
17
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
17
2
133
133
2
133
133
17
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
88
88
45
45
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
45
45
88
88
vCu, unblocked vol
17
2
133
133
2
133
133
17
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1600
1620
785
700
1082
786
702
1062
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
45
31
0
0
Volume Left
43
14
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1600
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
7.7%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 147 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background PM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
7
21
7
5
7
25
1795
23
5
1625
62
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
7
21
7
5
7
25
1795
23
5
1625
62
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
8
23
8
5
8
27
1951
25
5
1766
67
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.87
0.87
0.81
0.87
0.87
0.77
0.81
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2524
3840
622
2620
3860
663
1833
1976
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
720
2239
0
830
2264
0
1199
1220
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
78
76
97
95
85
99
94
99
cM capacity (veh/h)
226
34
876
171
32
834
467
437
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
81
21
515
976
513
446
883
508
Volume Left
50
8
27
0
0
5
0
0
Volume Right
23
8
0
0
25
0
0
67
cSH
279
100
467
1700
1700
437
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.29
0.21
0.06
0.57
0.30
0.01
0.52
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
29
19
5
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.3
50.4
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
F
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.3
50.4
0.4
0.1
Approach LOS
C
F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
66.6%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 148 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background PM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
33
2
0
16
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
33
2
0
16
19
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
36
2
0
17
21
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
21
2
129
129
2
129
129
21
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
74
74
55
55
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
55
55
74
74
vCu, unblocked vol
21
2
129
129
2
129
129
21
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
98
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1595
1620
792
705
1082
794
707
1056
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
38
38
0
0
Volume Left
36
17
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1595
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
6.9
3.3
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
6.9
3.3
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
6.9%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 149 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
76
46
131
5
4
11
19
1766
22
7
1597
90
Future Volume (Veh/h)
76
46
131
5
4
11
19
1766
22
7
1597
90
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.95
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
80
48
138
5
4
12
21
1859
24
8
1681
98
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.88
0.88
0.79
0.88
0.88
0.77
0.79
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2422
3671
609
2513
3708
632
1779
1883
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
518
1942
0
622
1984
0
1057
1112
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
77
10
84
91
92
99
96
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
342
53
857
58
50
838
517
482
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
266
21
486
930
489
428
840
518
Volume Left
80
5
21
0
0
8
0
0
Volume Right
138
12
0
0
24
0
0
98
cSH
486
117
517
1700
1700
482
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.55
0.18
0.04
0.55
0.29
0.02
0.49
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
81
16
3
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
23.2
42.4
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
E
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
23.2
42.4
0.3
0.1
Approach LOS
C
E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
2.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
67.8%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 150 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
71
4
0
17
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
71
4
0
17
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
77
4
0
18
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
22
4
216
216
4
216
216
22
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
158
158
58
58
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
58
58
158
158
vCu, unblocked vol
22
4
216
216
4
216
216
22
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
95
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1593
1618
700
632
1080
699
633
1055
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
81
40
0
0
Volume Left
77
18
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1593
1618
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.05
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
4
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.3
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
10.9%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 151 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative PM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
111
17
51
8
6
8
29
2045
26
6
1960
75
Future Volume (Veh/h)
111
17
51
8
6
8
29
2045
26
6
1960
75
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.98
0.92
0.92
0.98
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
117
18
54
9
7
9
32
2087
28
7
2000
82
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.84
0.84
0.75
0.84
0.84
0.71
0.75
0.71
vC, conflicting volume
2827
4234
708
2855
4261
710
2082
2115
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
495
2169
0
527
2201
0
1272
1164
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
61
49
93
95
79
99
92
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
297
35
812
190
34
775
406
426
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
189
25
554
1044
550
507
1000
582
Volume Left
117
9
32
0
0
7
0
0
Volume Right
54
9
0
0
28
0
0
82
cSH
367
94
406
1700
1700
426
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.51
0.27
0.08
0.61
0.32
0.02
0.59
0.34
Queue Length 95th (ft)
71
25
6
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
26.0
56.9
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
D
F
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
26.0
56.9
0.6
0.1
Approach LOS
D
F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
80.8%
ICU Level of Service 
D
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 152 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative PM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
3
0
19
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
3
0
19
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
3
0
21
24
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
24
3
169
169
3
169
169
24
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
103
103
66
66
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
66
66
103
103
vCu, unblocked vol
24
3
169
169
3
169
169
24
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1591
1619
751
673
1081
752
675
1052
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
53
45
0
0
Volume Left
50
21
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1591
1619
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
6.9
3.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
6.9
3.4
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
8.2%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 153 ---
APPENDIX C
‘Plus Project’ Traffic Analysis Synchro Output

--- page 154 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing + Project AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
28
17
48
5
3
12
15
1415
22
8
1343
76
Future Volume (Veh/h)
28
17
48
5
3
12
15
1415
22
8
1343
76
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
30
18
52
5
3
13
16
1538
24
9
1460
83
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.92
0.92
0.85
0.92
0.92
0.87
0.85
0.87
vC, conflicting volume
2079
3114
528
2096
3143
525
1543
1562
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
871
2000
0
890
2032
0
1020
1107
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
85
65
94
97
94
99
97
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
204
52
921
145
50
939
575
542
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
100
21
400
769
408
374
730
448
Volume Left
30
5
16
0
0
9
0
0
Volume Right
52
13
0
0
24
0
0
83
cSH
306
193
575
1700
1700
542
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.33
0.11
0.03
0.45
0.24
0.02
0.43
0.26
Queue Length 95th (ft)
34
9
2
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.4
25.9
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
D
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.4
25.9
0.2
0.1
Approach LOS
C
D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
50.6%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 155 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing + Project AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
2
0
13
18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
2
0
13
18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
2
0
14
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
20
2
150
150
2
150
150
20
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
102
102
48
48
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
48
48
102
102
vCu, unblocked vol
20
2
150
150
2
150
150
20
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1596
1620
768
686
1082
768
688
1058
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
52
34
0
0
Volume Left
50
14
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1596
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.1
3.0
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.1
3.0
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
8.6%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 156 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing + Project PM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
7
21
9
5
14
25
1785
26
7
1618
62
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
7
21
9
5
14
25
1785
26
7
1618
62
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
8
23
10
5
15
27
1940
28
8
1759
67
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.87
0.87
0.81
0.87
0.87
0.77
0.81
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2527
3830
620
2614
3850
661
1826
1968
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
738
2241
0
839
2264
0
1195
1219
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
77
76
97
94
85
98
94
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
217
33
877
168
32
837
469
438
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
81
30
512
970
513
448
880
507
Volume Left
50
10
27
0
0
8
0
0
Volume Right
23
15
0
0
28
0
0
67
cSH
268
129
469
1700
1700
438
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.30
0.23
0.06
0.57
0.30
0.02
0.52
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
31
21
5
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
25.3
41.1
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
D
E
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
25.3
41.1
0.4
0.1
Approach LOS
D
E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
67.5%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 157 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Existing + Project PM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
38
2
0
16
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
38
2
0
16
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
41
2
0
17
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
22
2
140
140
2
140
140
22
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
84
84
56
56
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
56
56
84
84
vCu, unblocked vol
22
2
140
140
2
140
140
22
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1593
1620
780
696
1082
782
698
1055
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
43
39
0
0
Volume Left
41
17
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1593
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
7.5%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 158 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background + Project AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
28
17
48
5
3
12
15
1419
22
8
1354
76
Future Volume (Veh/h)
28
17
48
5
3
12
15
1419
22
8
1354
76
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
30
18
52
5
3
13
16
1542
24
9
1472
83
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.92
0.92
0.85
0.92
0.92
0.86
0.85
0.86
vC, conflicting volume
2092
3130
532
2104
3159
526
1555
1566
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
873
2006
0
885
2038
0
1026
1108
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
85
65
94
97
94
99
97
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
203
51
919
146
49
938
570
541
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
100
21
402
771
410
377
736
451
Volume Left
30
5
16
0
0
9
0
0
Volume Right
52
13
0
0
24
0
0
83
cSH
305
192
570
1700
1700
541
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.33
0.11
0.03
0.45
0.24
0.02
0.43
0.27
Queue Length 95th (ft)
35
9
2
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
24.5
26.1
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.5
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
D
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
24.5
26.1
0.2
0.1
Approach LOS
C
D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
50.7%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 159 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background + Project AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
2
0
13
18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
2
0
13
18
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
2
0
14
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
20
2
150
150
2
150
150
20
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
102
102
48
48
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
48
48
102
102
vCu, unblocked vol
20
2
150
150
2
150
150
20
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1596
1620
768
686
1082
768
688
1058
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
52
34
0
0
Volume Left
50
14
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1596
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.1
3.0
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.1
3.0
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
8.6%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 160 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background + Project PM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
46
7
21
9
5
14
25
1795
26
7
1625
62
Future Volume (Veh/h)
46
7
21
9
5
14
25
1795
26
7
1625
62
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
50
8
23
10
5
15
27
1951
28
8
1766
67
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.86
0.86
0.81
0.86
0.86
0.77
0.81
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2537
3848
622
2628
3868
664
1833
1979
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
729
2245
0
833
2267
0
1197
1220
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
77
76
97
94
84
98
94
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
219
33
876
169
32
833
467
436
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
81
30
515
976
516
450
883
508
Volume Left
50
10
27
0
0
8
0
0
Volume Right
23
15
0
0
28
0
0
67
cSH
271
129
467
1700
1700
436
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.30
0.23
0.06
0.57
0.30
0.02
0.52
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
30
21
5
0
0
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
25.1
41.3
1.7
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
D
E
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
25.1
41.3
0.4
0.1
Approach LOS
D
E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
67.7%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 161 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Background + Project PM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
38
2
0
16
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
38
2
0
16
20
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
41
2
0
17
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
22
2
140
140
2
140
140
22
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
84
84
56
56
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
56
56
84
84
vCu, unblocked vol
22
2
140
140
2
140
140
22
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1593
1620
780
696
1082
782
698
1055
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
43
39
0
0
Volume Left
41
17
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1593
1620
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
2
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.2
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
7.5%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 162 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative + Project AM
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
76
46
131
6
4
14
19
1766
26
9
1597
90
Future Volume (Veh/h)
76
46
131
6
4
14
19
1766
26
9
1597
90
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.95
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
80
48
138
7
4
15
21
1859
28
10
1681
98
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.88
0.88
0.79
0.88
0.88
0.77
0.79
0.77
vC, conflicting volume
2429
3679
609
2519
3714
634
1779
1887
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
518
1945
0
621
1985
0
1055
1112
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
76
9
84
87
92
98
96
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
340
53
857
55
50
836
518
481
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
266
26
486
930
493
430
840
518
Volume Left
80
7
21
0
0
10
0
0
Volume Right
138
15
0
0
28
0
0
98
cSH
482
116
518
1700
1700
481
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.55
0.22
0.04
0.55
0.29
0.02
0.49
0.30
Queue Length 95th (ft)
82
20
3
0
0
2
0
0
Control Delay (s)
23.5
44.9
1.2
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
C
E
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
23.5
44.9
0.3
0.2
Approach LOS
C
E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
2.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
67.9%
ICU Level of Service 
C
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 163 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative + Project AM
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
77
4
0
17
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
77
4
0
17
22
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
84
4
0
18
24
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
24
4
232
232
4
232
232
24
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
172
172
60
60
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
60
60
172
172
vCu, unblocked vol
24
4
232
232
4
232
232
24
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
95
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1591
1618
685
619
1080
683
620
1052
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
88
42
0
0
Volume Left
84
18
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1591
1618
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.05
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
4
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.1
3.2
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.1
3.2
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
12.0%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 164 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative + Project PM v2
1: El Camino Real & Aragon Blvd./Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 1
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
111
17
51
10
6
15
29
2045
29
8
1960
75
Future Volume (Veh/h)
111
17
51
10
6
15
29
2045
29
8
1960
75
Sign Control
Stop
Stop
Free
Free
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.95
0.95
0.95
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.98
0.92
0.92
0.98
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
117
18
54
11
7
16
32
2087
32
9
2000
82
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
2
Median type
None
None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
1055
464
pX, platoon unblocked
0.84
0.84
0.75
0.84
0.84
0.71
0.75
0.71
vC, conflicting volume
2838
4242
708
2861
4267
712
2082
2119
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol
499
2172
0
526
2201
0
1270
1164
tC, single (s)
7.5
6.5
6.9
7.5
6.5
6.9
4.1
4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
2.2
2.2
p0 queue free %
60
48
93
94
79
98
92
98
cM capacity (veh/h)
291
35
812
188
33
774
406
425
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
NB 2
NB 3
SB 1
SB 2
SB 3
Volume Total
189
34
554
1044
554
509
1000
582
Volume Left
117
11
32
0
0
9
0
0
Volume Right
54
16
0
0
32
0
0
82
cSH
359
118
406
1700
1700
425
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.53
0.29
0.08
0.61
0.33
0.02
0.59
0.34
Queue Length 95th (ft)
73
28
6
0
0
2
0
0
Control Delay (s)
26.8
47.5
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.6
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
D
E
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
26.8
47.5
0.6
0.2
Approach LOS
D
E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
1.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
80.9%
ICU Level of Service 
D
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 165 ---
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
Cumulative + Project PM v2
2: Mid-Block Median Break & Hayward Ave.
One Hayward TIA
08/04/2021
Synchro 11 Report
AECOM
Page 2
Movement
EBL
EBT
EBR
WBL
WBT
WBR
NBL
NBT
NBR
SBL
SBT
SBR
Lane Configurations
Traffic Volume (veh/h)
51
3
0
19
23
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Future Volume (Veh/h)
51
3
0
19
23
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sign Control
Free
Free
Stop
Stop
Grade
0%
0%
0%
0%
Peak Hour Factor
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)
55
3
0
21
25
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type
Raised
Raised
Median storage veh)
1
1
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume
25
3
180
180
3
180
180
25
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
113
113
67
67
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
67
67
113
113
vCu, unblocked vol
25
3
180
180
3
180
180
25
tC, single (s)
4.1
4.1
7.1
6.5
6.2
7.1
6.5
6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
6.1
5.5
6.1
5.5
tF (s)
2.2
2.2
3.5
4.0
3.3
3.5
4.0
3.3
p0 queue free %
97
99
100
100
100
100
100
100
cM capacity (veh/h)
1589
1619
740
664
1081
741
666
1051
Direction, Lane #
EB 1
WB 1
NB 1
SB 1
Volume Total
58
46
0
0
Volume Left
55
21
0
0
Volume Right
0
0
0
0
cSH
1589
1619
1700
1700
Volume to Capacity
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)
3
1
0
0
Control Delay (s)
7.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
Lane LOS
A
A
A
A
Approach Delay (s)
7.0
3.4
0.0
0.0
Approach LOS
A
A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay 
5.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization 
8.9%
ICU Level of Service 
A
Analysis Period (min)
15

--- page 166 ---
APPENDIX D
Signal Warrant Analysis

--- page 167 ---
Traffic Signal Warrants Worksheet 
Warrant 3: Peak Hour (from the California MUTCD 2014 Edition) 
 
Scenario: 
Existing Conditions, weekday PM peak hour 
Intersection: 
South El Camino Real / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard 
 
 
 PART A or PART B SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
PART A 
(All parts 1, 2, and 3 below must be satisfied) 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
1. The total delay experienced by traffic on one minor street approach (one direction only) 
controlled by a STOP sign equals or exceeds four vehicle-hours for a one-lane approach, or 
five vehicle-hours for a two-lane approach. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): 
(46 + 7 + 21) veh × 24.5 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 0.50 veh·h 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(7 + 5 + 7) veh × 50.1 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 0.26 veh·h 
Yes 
 
No 
 
2. The volume on the same minor street approach (one direction only) equals or exceeds 100 
vph for one moving lane of traffic or 150 vph for two moving lanes. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): 
(46 + 7 + 21) veh = 74 veh 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(7 + 5 + 7) veh = 19 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
3. The total entering volume serviced during the hour equals or exceeds 800 vph for intersections 
with four or more approaches or 650 vph for intersections with three approaches. 
Four approaches: 
3,611 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
 
 
PART B 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
Approach Lanes 
Vehicles 
per hour 
One 
2 or More 
Both Approaches – Major Street 
 
✓ 
3,518 
Higher Approach – Minor Street 
✓ 
 
74 
 
Figure 4C-3.Warrant 3, Peak Hour

--- page 168 ---
Traffic Signal Warrants Worksheet 
Warrant 3: Peak Hour (from the California MUTCD 2014 Edition) 
 
Scenario: 
Background Conditions, weekday PM peak hour 
Intersection: 
South El Camino Real / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard 
 
 
 PART A or PART B SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
PART A 
(All parts 1, 2, and 3 below must be satisfied) 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
1. The total delay experienced by traffic on one minor street approach (one direction only) 
controlled by a STOP sign equals or exceeds four vehicle-hours for a one-lane approach, or 
five vehicle-hours for a two-lane approach. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): 
(46 + 7 + 21) veh × 24.3 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 0.50 veh·h 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(7 + 5 + 7) veh × 50.1 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 0.27 veh·h 
Yes 
 
No 
 
2. The volume on the same minor street approach (one direction only) equals or exceeds 100 
vph for one moving lane of traffic or 150 vph for two moving lanes. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): 
(46 + 7 + 21) veh = 74 veh 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(7 + 5 + 7) veh = 19 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
3. The total entering volume serviced during the hour equals or exceeds 800 vph for intersections 
with four or more approaches or 650 vph for intersections with three approaches. 
Four approaches: 
3,628 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
 
 
PART B 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
Approach Lanes 
Vehicles 
per hour 
One 
2 or More 
Both Approaches – Major Street 
 
✓ 
3,535 
Higher Approach – Minor Street 
✓ 
 
74 
 
Figure 4C-3.Warrant 3, Peak Hour

--- page 169 ---
Traffic Signal Warrants Worksheet 
Warrant 3: Peak Hour (from the California MUTCD 2014 Edition) 
 
Scenario: 
Cumulative Conditions, weekday PM peak hour 
Intersection: 
South El Camino Real / Hayward Avenue – Aragon Boulevard 
 
 
 PART A or PART B SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
PART A 
(All parts 1, 2, and 3 below must be satisfied) 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
1. The total delay experienced by traffic on one minor street approach (one direction only) 
controlled by a STOP sign equals or exceeds four vehicle-hours for a one-lane approach, or 
five vehicle-hours for a two-lane approach. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): (111 + 17 + 51) veh × 26.0 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 1.29 veh·h 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(8 + 6 + 8) veh × 56.9 sec/veh ÷ 3600 sec/h = 0.35 veh·h 
Yes 
 
No 
 
2. The volume on the same minor street approach (one direction only) equals or exceeds 100 
vph for one moving lane of traffic or 150 vph for two moving lanes. 
EB (Aragon Blvd. // 2 lanes): 
(111 + 17 + 51) veh = 179 veh 
WB (Hayward Ave. // 1 lane): 
(8 + 6 + 8) veh = 22 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
3. The total entering volume serviced during the hour equals or exceeds 800 vph for intersections 
with four or more approaches or 650 vph for intersections with three approaches. 
Four approaches: 
4,342 veh 
Yes 
 
No 
 
 
 
PART B 
 
SATISFIED 
YES 
 
NO 
 
 
 
Approach Lanes 
Vehicles 
per hour 
One 
2 or More 
Both Approaches – Major Street 
 
✓ 
4,141 
Higher Approach – Minor Street 
✓ 
 
179 
 
Figure 4C-3.Warrant 3, Peak Hour

--- page 170 ---
APPENDIX E
Approved Project Trips

--- page 171 ---
408 E. 4th Avenue TIA

oe 3
ar =| tL. 11(26) =
mtu ene mt

El Camino

El Camino
Real

Real

El Camino

S Ellsworth

Ave

<— 91-3)

a

Claremont

St

2
a
=
&
o
a

a

Delaware

Claremont
St

Claremont

LEGEND
XX(XX) = AM(PM) Peak-Hour Trips

Figure 11
Net Project Trip Assignment

~ 2 HEXAGON VN

NORTH

Not to Scale


--- page 172 ---
APPENDIX F
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan
by Steer Group

--- page 173 ---
TDM Plan 
March 2022 
 
 
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
     Image source:  ARC TEC Inc.
The City of San Mateo 
23911801

--- page 174 ---


--- page 175 ---
Steer has prepared this material for The City of San Mateo. This material may only be used within the context and scope 
for which Steer has prepared it and may not be relied upon in part or whole by any third party or be used for any other 
purpose. Any person choosing to use any part of this material without the express and written permission of Steer shall be 
deemed to confirm their agreement to indemnify Steer for all loss or damage resulting therefrom. Steer has prepared this 
material using professional practices and procedures using information available to it at the time and as such any new 
information could alter the validity of the results and conclusions made. 
TDM Plan 
March 2022 
 
 
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: 
Prepared for: 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
The City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
   
 23911801

--- page 176 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 
Contents 
Contents .................................................................................................................................. 4 
Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 7 
Project Description ................................................................................................................... 7 
Demographic and Travel Trends .............................................................................................. 9 
Site Assessment...................................................................................................................... 12 
Geography and Road Network ............................................................................................... 12 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure .................................................................................... 13 
Transit Services ....................................................................................................................... 14 
Nearby Destinations ............................................................................................................... 15 
Available TDM Services .......................................................................................................... 15 
Project TDM Measures ........................................................................................................... 16 
TDM Coordinator .................................................................................................................... 16 
Institutionalizing TDM ............................................................................................................ 17 
New Resident and Employee Packets .................................................................................... 17 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage ............................................................................................ 19 
TDM Communications ............................................................................................................ 19 
Bike Share ............................................................................................................................... 20 
Unbundled Parking ................................................................................................................. 21 
Optional TDM Strategies ......................................................................................................... 22 
Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy .................................................................................................. 22 
Bike Education / Workshops .................................................................................................. 22 
Impacts of Project TDM Measures ........................................................................................... 24 
VMT Reduction Calculations .................................................................................................. 24 
Program Impacts .................................................................................................................... 24 
Monitoring ............................................................................................................................. 26 
Annual Survey ......................................................................................................................... 26

--- page 177 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 
Exhibits .................................................................................................................................. 27 
 
Figures 
Figure 1. Zoning Map .......................................................................................................................... 8 
Figure 2. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6064 ......................................... 10 
Figure 3. Inflow/Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6064 ....................................................... 11 
Figure 4. A view of the project site ................................................................................................... 12 
Figure 5. A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica ........................................................ 18 
Figure 6. Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica ......................................... 19 
 
Tables 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes ................................................................................................. 8 
Table 2. Required vs. Provided Bicycle Parking .................................................................................. 9 
Table 3. Demographic data for census tract 6064 .............................................................................. 9 
Table 4. Where people living in census tract 6064 worked in 2018 ................................................. 10 
Table 5. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 4th Avenue ................................................... 13 
Table 6. Summary of Transit Services ............................................................................................... 14 
Table 7. Public Schools for 1 Hayward Avenue................................................................................. 15 
Table 8. TDM Coordinator ................................................................................................................ 16 
Table 9. Institutionalizing TDM ......................................................................................................... 17 
Table 10. New Resident and Employee Packets ............................................................................... 18 
Table 11. Multimodal Wayfinding Signage ....................................................................................... 19 
Table 12: TDM Communications ...................................................................................................... 20 
Table 13. Bike Share ......................................................................................................................... 21 
Table 14. Unbundled Parking............................................................................................................ 21 
Table 15. Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy ............................................................................................. 22 
Table 16. Bike Education/Workshops ............................................................................................... 23 
Table 17: VMT Reduction Calculations ............................................................................................. 24 
Table 18. Project TDM Measures Impact Overview ......................................................................... 25

--- page 178 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 
Table 19. Individual Impacts of Project TDM Measures ................................................................... 25 
 
Exhibits 
A  
TDM ROI Calculator 
B 
1 Hayward Avenue Site Assessment

--- page 179 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |7 
A Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan is a long-term management strategy for an 
organization or site that seeks to deliver sustainable transportation objectives. It is articulated in a 
document that is regularly reviewed by the implementing organization. It involves identifying an 
appropriate package of measures aimed at promoting sustainable travel, with an emphasis on reducing 
reliance on single occupancy car journeys and vehicle miles traveled (VMT). It can also assist in meeting 
other objectives such as increasing accessibility as well as reducing congestion, greenhouse gas and noise 
pollution.  
This TDM Plan was produced on behalf of the City of San Mateo for the 1 Hayward Ave. project site, 
which is a planned mixed-used property owned by One Hayward Avenue LLC. and developed by ARC 
TEC Inc. 
Project Description 
The project site is located at 1 Hayward Avenue in Central San Mateo within the 94401 ZIP code. This 
project involves the demolition of the existing structures and the development of a four-story mixed-use 
building with 18 residential units. The project includes:  
• 
4,495 sq. ft. of office space on the ground floor 
• 
15,315 sq. ft. of residential area (3 junior one-bedrooms and 15 one-bedrooms) on levels 2 
through 4  
• 
Subterranean parking garage with 22 parking spaces 
The site is a 12,820 sq. ft./0.29-acre corner-plot located at the intersection of N. El Camino Real and 
Hayward Avenue. The site is zoned Executive Offices with Residential Overlay (E2-1/R-4). As shown in 
Figure 1, the area immediately surrounding the project site is primarily zoned One Family Dwelling “C” 
(R1C), with other corner plots designated as Executive Offices (E2-1) or High-Density Multiple Family 
Dwellings (R5). The parcels north of the site, within the Downtown San Mateo area, are zoned R5, R6-D, 
and Central Business District (CBD), allowing for high-density residential, retail, cultural, entertainment, 
and community service uses which have the potential to generate traffic and congestion around the 
project site. The area to the south, east, and west generally accommodates low traffic-generating uses 
such as single-family residential and incidental commercial uses.   
Introduction

--- page 180 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |8 
Figure 1. Zoning Map 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Zoning Map  
The project site allows for a maximum FAR of 2 and an allowable height of 40 feet. The developer used 
the state density bonus provisions to increase the number of buildable units from 12 to 18, by proposing 
to devote two units (16%) to the very low-income category. Similarly, using the General Plan provisions, a 
request was also filed for increasing the maximum building height limit from 40 feet up to 55 feet by 
meeting certain General Plan findings and providing public benefits. There is an economic study underway 
to determine the appropriate amount of financial contribution from the developer. The financial 
contribution may target improvements in the area nearby the project site. Table 1. Proposed Project 
Attributes provides additional details regarding the proposed project compared to the parcel’s current 
use. 
Table 1. Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current  
Proposed 
Description 
5 dwelling units and 1 commercial unit   
4-story mixed-use building 
Square Footage 
6,754 sq. ft. (5,639 sq. ft. residential area 
and 1,115 sq. ft. commercial area)  
23,275 sq. ft. total floor area, including office and 
residential area 
Zoning Designation 
Executive Offices with Residential Overlay 
(E2-1/R-4) 
Executive Offices with Residential Overlay (E2-
1/R-4) 
As per the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC), the project typically requires a total of 23 parking spaces: 
14 parking stalls for commercial office use and 9 stalls for residential use. However, the project proposes 
only 22 subterranean vehicle parking spaces on-site. To reduce the required commercial use parking by 1 
unit, the developer has requested a state density bonus waiver to modify the commercial parking ratio 
Project Site

--- page 181 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |9 
from 1 stall per 335 sq. ft. to 1 stall per 360 sq. ft. Additionally, a density bonus waiver has also been 
requested to allow 13 various sized “compact” spaces, exceeding the allowable 30% (SMMC 27.64). The 
project has provided more than the required infrastructure for short-term bicycle parking for residents 
and guests. In addition to the required 1 short-term space and 18 long-term spaces, the project has 
provided an additional 3 short-term and 1 long-term spaces to provide a total of 4 short-term and 19 long-
term bicycle parking spaces. The project site is located almost equidistant and within 0.8 miles of both 
Hayward Park and Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Stations.  
Table 2. Required vs. Provided Bicycle Parking 
 
Required Bicycle Parking  
Provided Bicycle Parking  
Multi-family dwelling  
1 Short-term, 18 Long-term 
2 Short-term, 18 Long-term 
Office  
0 Short-term, 0 Long-term 
2 Short-term, 1 Long-term 
The office and residential community will be managed by a property manager once units are available. 
Demographic and Travel Trends 
The travel trends and insights detailed in this section are based on data associated with the project’s 
census tract (6064). Census tracts are established by the Census Bureau for the purpose of analyzing 
populations.  
Demographic Insights 
Census tract 6064 has a population of 5,134 people. The demographic information in Table 3 and Figure 2 
is collected from Census and 2019 American Communities Survey (ACS) data and can provide insight into 
residents’ needs and behaviors. 
  
Table 3. Demographic data for census tract 6064 
Category 
Characteristics 
Amount 
Age 
Under 18 
14% 
18 to 64 
62% 
Over 65 
23% 
Education 
Bachelor's degree or higher 
73.1% 
Households 
Number of households 
2,413 
Renter-Occupied Housing Units 
59% 
Persons per household 
2.1 
Median household income  
$167,165 
Race 
White alone 
56% 
Asian alone  
25% 
Hispanic or Latino (of any race) 
12% 
Black or African American alone 
0.3% 
Languages 
spoken 
Speaks only English  
65% 
Speaks a language other than English: Spanish  
10% 
Speaks a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 
6% 
Speaks a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island languages  
18%

--- page 182 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |10 
Source: 2019 ACS 5-Year Data Estimates  
Commute Insights 
American Communities Survey data from 2019 indicates that a majority (65%) of those who live within the 
census tract commute to work by driving alone. The data in Figure 2 shows that 23% of the population 
uses sustainable alternatives to driving-alone such as transit, carpool, walk and bike. The mean commute 
time across all travel modes is 30.6 minutes. About 11% of the population indicated that they regularly 
“worked from home”, however the share of teleworkers may be in flux at this time and in the future, due 
to the Covid 19Pandemic.  
Figure 2. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6064 
 
Source: 2019 ACS 5-Year Data Estimates, Census.gov (Universe: workers aged 16 and up) 
As shown in Table 4, residents of the census tract commute to a wide variety of locations, with 11.8% 
commuting within the City of San Mateo, and 11.2% commuting to San Francisco. 
Table 4. Where people living in census tract 6064 worked in 2018 
Job Locations 
Count 
Share 
San Mateo, CA 
211 
11.8% 
San Francisco, CA 
201 
11.2% 
San Jose, CA 
76 
4.2% 
Foster City, CA 
74 
4.1% 
South San Francisco, CA 
52 
2.9% 
Other Locations 
1,176 
64.1% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
1,790 
100% 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 3, depicts that 2,422 individuals commute 
out of the area and 1,745 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. A total of forty-five 
individuals both live and work inside the census tract.

--- page 183 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |11 
 
Figure 3. Inflow/Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6064 
 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies

--- page 184 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |12 
A site assessment was conducted as part of the TDM Plan development process. The site assessment 
included a description of the site’s geography and road network, pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, 
transit services, nearby attractions, and existing TDM services. For the complete assessment, please refer 
to the 1 Hayward Avenue Background Assessment memo in Exhibit B. Key findings from the site 
assessment are as follows:  
Geography and Road Network 
The project site is located at the intersection of the six-lane arterial El Camino Real (Highway 82) and local 
street Hayward Ave. The site is surrounded by: 
• 
Arterial N. El Camino Real (Highway 82) to the west 
• 
Local street Hayward Avenue to the south  
• 
A 3 story multi-family building to the east  
• 
A dentist office and 4 story multi-family building to the north  
 
Figure 4. A view of the project site 
 
Site Assessment

--- page 185 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |13 
In terms of highway access, the project site is located adjacent to  N. El Camino Real (Highway 82). The 
closest highway on-ramps for US-101 and SR-92 are situated 1.2 miles east and 0.8 miles south of the 
project site respectively.  
The intersection of El Camino Real and 4th Avenue, the first major intersection when exiting from the 1 
Hayward Avenue development, sees reasonably free flow in the AM with a ‘B’ Level of Service (LOS), 
but during PM hours, vehicular traffic at the intersection gets close to capacity and therefore has a “C” 
LOS.   
Table 5. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 4th Avenue 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service 
 
Year 2018 Conditions 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
El Camino Real and 4th Avenue 
19.3 
B 
22.3 
C 
Source: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (October 2018) 
 
The site is within walkable distance from Downtown San Mateo, which is less than 0.5 miles away:  
• 
4 mins by car   
• 
3 mins by bike  
• 
8 mins by SamTrans ECR Bus  
• 
10 mins by walking  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure 
The site’s topography, street network, and proximity to Downtown San Mateo are conducive to 
pedestrian and bicycle access. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives the site an 84/100 for 
walking, which they classify as “very walkable – most errands can be accomplished on foot”.  
Located 400 ft. away, the closest existing bike lane to the project site is the Class II bike lane on Palm 
Avenue that connects Hayward Park Caltrain station to San Mateo Central Park. The Palm Avenue bike 
lane extends beyond South Boulevard as a Class III bike route that connects the Hayward Park Caltrain 
Station to 25th Avenue. To the north, the Palm Avenue bike lane connects the site to the southern 
border of Downtown San Mateo on 9th Avenue. However, there is a network gap between 9th 
Ave./Palm Ave. and 9th Ave./Laurel Ave. which creates an unsafe intersection for bikers. Delaware 
Street, which can be accessed from the project site via the bike lane on Palm Avenue (located 0.5 miles 
away from the site), is a combination of Class II bike lane and Class III bike route and traverses across 
the City, connecting the northernmost Peninsula Avenue to Franklin Parkway in the south, which is 0.2 
miles north of Hillsdale Boulevard.  
The Delaware Street bike facility extends beyond Hillsdale Boulevard, renamed as ‘Pacific Boulevard’ 
which has segments of both Class II bike lanes and Class III bike routes and provides connectivity to the 
southerly border of the City. Delaware Street/Pacific Boulevard runs parallel to the Caltrain tracks and 
connects residential and commercial areas to the three Caltrain stations within San Mateo.  
Due to minimal traffic and the presence of on-street vehicular parking and a bike facility, Palm Avenue 
has been designated as a “Low-stress” street by the April 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan and is 
considered suitable for most adults and families traveling by bike. Overall, the Hayward Park 
neighborhood is considered to have low-stress bikeways with very few high-stress barriers. However, 
due to higher traffic stress and inadequate separation from vehicular traffic, Delaware Street has been

--- page 186 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |14 
classified as a ‘High-stress’ street, which is defined as being uncomfortable or unappealing to all cyclists 
other than those with high levels of experience and risk tolerance or those traveling by electric bikes. 
As part of the Bicycle Master Plan, the existing bike lanes on Delaware Street are recommended to be 
upgraded to buffered bike lanes to improve safety and comfort and provide a continuous north-south 
connection into and out of Downtown San Mateo. 
In terms of nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located at 
nearby Caltrain Stations as well as the Hillsdale Shopping Center and its surrounding area. BikeLink 
allows bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that can be purchased 
online or at nearby vendors. There are four lockers at the nearest Caltrain Station (Hayward Park) and 
24 at the Downtown station. Additionally, four free-to-use public bike repair stations are located within 
two miles of the project site. These stations are located at San Mateo City Hall, the San Mateo Main 
Library, Ryder Court Park, and the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain station. 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan 
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020, and serves as a 
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming 
years. The Plan includes four recommendations relevant to the 1 Hayward Avenue project site: 
 
• 
Notre Dame Avenue and 9th Avenue are offset from one another at El Camino Real 
• 
Bike lane on 9th Avenue, connecting El Camino Real to S. B Street  
• 
Bike boulevard along Hobart Avenue/12th Avenue connecting Edinburgh Street to S. B Street  
• 
Buffered bike lane along Delaware Street, connecting 5th Avenue to Concar Drive  
Transit Services 
The project site is located within a 0.8-mile walk from both the San Mateo and Hayward Park Caltrain 
Stations. The project site is also served by two San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) routes as 
shown in Table 6. 
Table 6. Summary of Transit Services 
Transit Service 
Hours of Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance to 
Closest Stop 
Cost 
BART 
Monday – Friday: 5 
AM – Midnight;  
Saturday: 6 AM - 
Midnight; Sunday: 
8 AM – 9 PM   
15 minutes 
Millbrae station  
4.8 miles 
$4.25+** 
Caltrain 
Daily – 5:30 AM to 
12:15 PM 
 
30 minutes  
Downtown San 
Mateo station  
0.8 miles  
$3.20-$14+** 
Caltrain 
Daily – 5:30 AM to 
12:15 PM 
Hourly  
Hayward Park station  0.8 miles  
$3.20-$14+** 
SamTrans ECR 
Daily – 4 AM to 
midnight 
15 minutes 
El Camino Real & 9th 
Ave 
0.1 miles/ 2-
minute walk 
$2.25 Local Fare 
SamTrans 55 
School Day Service 
Schedule 
1 morning bus, 
2 afternoon 
busses  
El Camino Real & 9th 
Ave 
0.1 miles/ 2-
minute walk 
$2.25 Local Fare 
**price subject to change due to distance traveled

--- page 187 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |15 
 
Nearby Destinations 
Key destinations in close proximity to the project site include: 
• 
Four shopping centers within one-and-half mile walk that provide access to a multitude of retail 
outlets, eateries, grocery stores, pharmacy, gym, banks, etc.  
• 
Four childcare centers within a mile walking distance.  
• 
Three parks within one-mile radius.  
• 
Two universities within a two-mile radius.  
• 
Over one dozen schools within a two-miles radius. 
 
Table 7. Public Schools for 1 Hayward Avenue 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance 
in miles 
Sunnybrae Elementary School  
0.7 
Borel Middle School 
0.8 
Aragon High School 
0.8  
 
Available TDM Services 
Commute.org Incentives 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their resources are 
available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and employees of the 
project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those commuting within the 
County and in the surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a regional clearinghouse for 
all transportation and commuting-related information. They also provide the following services: 
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free ‘try transit’ program that allows individuals 
to request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze Carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards 
worth up to $100.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can be 
reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.  
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to 
residents and commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers and 
other sites, including residential properties, within San Mateo County. They can be 60, 75, or 90 
minutes in length depending on what is ideal for the requesting party and include time for Q&A. 
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo 
County with incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. To participate in the 
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides are 
then recorded in the STAR platform, iCommute.org’s incentive delivery platform, where 
commuters can access their incentives.

--- page 188 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |16 
This chapter outlines the TDM strategies identified for the 1 Hayward Avenue site. The strategies in this 
section are effective and appropriate based on the project’s size, location, and land use. The narrative 
below provides guidelines for implementation, cost estimates, expected timelines, and indicates the 
anticipated responsible party for each recommended measure. It is understood that the property 
management team will be the ‘responsible party’ for most TDM measures outlined below.  
Each strategy’s description also estimates the number of vehicle miles traveled and percentage of trips 
expected to be reduced through its implementation. It is important to note that many of the TDM 
strategies in this section are scalable and can easily be expanded by increasing the number of 
resources allocated. 
TDM Coordinator 
An on-site TDM coordinator would act as a liaison between the developer, City, employees, and the 
residents. The TDM coordinator would help develop, implement, and report on the various TDM 
strategies. This person would be responsible for coordinating and marketing the selected TDM 
strategies as well as maintaining working relationships with the City and nearby developments.  
Implementation Guidelines: 
Assign the role of TDM Coordinator to an individual on the apartment management team to plan and 
implement the TDM program. Allocate approximately 5 hours per month for the TDM Coordinator to 
spend on the following activities:  
• 
Annual Monitoring: Survey the residents and employees and compile a monitoring report 
for submission to the City of San Mateo annually. 
• 
TDM Program Coordination and Outreach: Organize and promote sustainable travel 
options through building communications such as emails, bulletin boards, and social media. 
Specific tasks include:  
– 
Organize and promote the trip reduction and air quality strategies detailed in the 
following sections.  
– 
Promote the sustainable transportation options available to the residents and employees. 
Table 8. TDM Coordinator 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$2,000 per year (or equivalent staff time) 
Responsible party  
Apartment management team 
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
19 to 37 
Percent of daily vehicle trips 
reduced 
Spending 5 hours per month organizing TDM programs will lead to a 
0.58% to 1.16% decrease in vehicle trips (can be reduced further 
with an increased commitment in time and TDM strategies). 
Project TDM Measures

--- page 189 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |17 
Institutionalizing TDM 
It is important that the TDM program be implemented as the site becomes occupied and when units 
eventually begin to turn over. It must also be updated as needs change and transportation options and 
technology evolve. Therefore, the TDM Plan should become ‘institutionalized’ as part of the property’s 
leasing process to ensure the program remains in place and new residents and employees are aware of 
its existence. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Describe the TDM infrastructure, amenities, and programs available to employers and residents and 
how they will be made available to the tenants in the lease documents.  
Table 9. Institutionalizing TDM   
Estimated timeframe  
During the drafting of lease language and ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$0 – it is likely that this cost will already be undertaken by the 
property management in order to establish the details of the 
lease agreement, so including TDM information in this effort 
will likely come at little or no additional cost.  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 to 1  
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
0% 
New Resident and Employee Packets 
Individuals are most likely to make a change in their transportation behavior alongside other life 
changes. This means that providing new residents with a packet that offers them information about all 
their transportation options can increase the likelihood for them to choose options other than driving 
alone. 
New residents end employees would be provided with welcome packets that include a Clipper Card 
with stored value, customized transportation information about nearby transit routes, bus stops, bike 
maps, amenities, and routes, and other TDM initiatives undertaken by the property. The welcome 
packets should also include the contact information of the property’s TDM Coordinator. Figure 5 offers 
an example of a welcome packet distributed to new residents in Santa Monica, CA.

--- page 190 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |18 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Design a New Resident and Employee Packet for the property that provides information on all 
transportation modes available as well as services that may make choosing sustainable travel easier. 
The TDM Coordinator can work directly with Commute.org, who can assist the property in purchasing 
Clipper Cards and provide supportive materials, commuter incentives and advice. The packet should 
include: 
• 
A Clipper Card with stored value ($10 to $20 would be ideal) 
• 
A map depicting a 10- and 20-minute walk and bicycle radius  
• 
Information about the transit options available (SamTrans, Caltrain, and BART) and how to 
connect to them, including Park and Ride options  
• 
Information about all the transportation related amenities offered by the property 
• 
Information about Commute.org services and resources 
• 
Information about Guaranteed Ride Home and how to register  
• 
Information about bike routes and amenities in the City of San Mateo Parking and 
Transportation Planning webpage (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2125/Parking-
Transportation) 
 
Table 10. New Resident and Employee Packets  
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, ongoing  
Estimated cost  
Approximately $3,000 total:  
$2,000 to develop packet, $10 to $20 in Clipper Card stored 
value per unit, then up to $4 per packet to print and distribute  
Responsible party  
Owner or consultant to develop; Property Management team 
to maintain and distribute long term  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
87 to 97  
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
2.89%  
Figure 5. A New Resident Packet distributed in Santa Monica

--- page 191 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |19 
Multimodal Wayfinding Signage 
The developer would provide multimodal 
wayfinding signage at entry and exit points 
of the property. Wayfinding can help 
people visualize how close sustainable 
travel options are and in which direction, 
as well as familiarize them with nearby 
modes. Examples of wayfinding window 
decals used in the City of Santa Monica are 
shown in Figure 6. 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Using consistent and legible design 
guidelines, create and post a network of 
pedestrian-scale signage at key entry and 
exit points of the property. The signs 
should point users to key destinations and give them estimates for how far away they are by walking 
and/or biking. For example -  
• 
16 min walk to Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station  
• 
3 min walk to El Camino Real & 9th Ave. Bus Stop  
• 
3 min walk to 9th Ave. entrance to San Mateo Central Park  
Be sure to evaluate the signage regularly to take into consideration any infrastructural or service 
changes that may impact options. 
Table 11. Multimodal Wayfinding Signage  
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy 
Estimated cost  
Under $500  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
0 to 1 
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
0% 
 
TDM Communications 
In order to encourage individuals to choose sustainable travel options, it is critical to provide them with 
the information needed to do so. Having a Communications Plan that outlines which information to 
share and how will set clear expectations for the TDM Coordinator.  
The Communications Plan would likely include: 
• 
Website - Having all transportation-related information and resources available in one 
virtual location makes it easy and convenient for residents to learn about their travel 
options. The webpage could be integrated as part of the apartment portal and should 
provide information about nearby transit routes and schedules, bike and pedestrian paths, 
services offered by Commute.org and other amenities. This is especially helpful for residents 
new to the neighborhood who are unaware of the transportation options available to them. 
Figure 6. Multimodal wayfinding window decals used in Santa Monica

--- page 192 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |20 
• 
Resident and Employee Bulletin Boards – Include TDM messaging in resident and employee 
bulletin boards on a regular basis to inform and update residents and employees of 
sustainable travel options, upcoming events, and activities. Commute.org sends out 
regularly scheduled newsletters that are a good reference for up-to-date transportation 
information. 
• 
Apartment Social Media Channels (Facebook, Instagram, etc.) – Promote transportation 
options and updates via the property management social media channels such as Facebook, 
Instagram and Nextdoor. Each social media post could advertise different TDM measures 
and events such as commuter promotions and incentives, and highlight resources such as 
511 and Commute.org. 
 
Implementation Guidelines:  
Create a webpage that lives on or is linked from the property’s resident-facing website and includes all 
the above listed information, at a minimum. Commute.org’s website can be a resource for up to date 
transportation information. 
 
Develop a regular schedule for updating the resident and employee bulletin boards and social media 
posts and promote relevant transportation information regularly. 
Table 12: TDM Communications 
 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy, property management (TDM Coordinator) to 
maintain webpage and newsletter/social media calendar as well 
as managing all transportation-related information to residents.  
Estimated cost  
$0  
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
7 to 15 
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
0% to 0.58% 
 
Bike Share 
Providing shared bikes to tenants is an excellent way to encourage bike ridership. Biking could easily 
replace driving for short trips and local errands under three miles. Use of electric bikes can increase the 
average commuting distance even further, to around seven miles.    
Implementation Guidelines:  
Purchase two or more bicycles to create a property bike share. The following factors should be 
considered at the outset to ensure the program meets resident and employee needs and is widely 
used.  
• 
Choose at least one electric bike as part of the fleet 
• 
Choose at least one cargo or cargo electric bike for the fleet, or purchase a bike trailer, so 
that residents can transport children or make grocery store trips  
• 
Choose bikes with easily adjustable seat height and wide seat height range to allow use by 
riders of different sizes  
• 
Keep the bikes well maintained and clean. The property could partner with local bike shops 
to do on-site maintenance or tune-ups twice a year.

--- page 193 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |21 
• 
Place the bikes in a visible, easy to access location so that using the bikes is convenient for 
residents and employees.  
• 
A simple check out system will make using the bikes more convenient. The bikes can be 
offered on a first come, first served basis where the residents and employees are required 
to check out a key to the bike lock from the front desk. The TDM Coordinator can choose to 
create a more complex bike checkout and/or reservation system if that makes more sense 
for the property, or they may want to invest in technology-based smart locks that only open 
for specific people or those who have access to a frequently updated code.  
 
Table 13. Bike Share 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing 
Estimated cost  
$5,000 depending on cost and number of bikes.  
Upfront costs/bike purchases: $200-500 per bike, $1,800-3,000 
per electric bike 
Ongoing Maintenance: $100/year/bike for tune-ups  
Administrative costs will vary based on program structure  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
8 to 16 
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
1.16% to 2.31% for every six people who use the shared bikes 
for short trips  
 
Unbundled Parking  
Access to free parking often dramatically reduces the cost of car ownership. Providing unbundled 
parking means charges for using on-site parking spaces are separate from the unit price or monthly 
rent. By unbundling the cost of renting an apartment from the cost of the parking spot, the property 
will encourage and reward sustainable travel.  
Implementation guidelines:  
Provide on-site parking spaces at a cost (market rate) and included as a separate line item from the 
unit price or monthly rent. 
Table 14. Unbundled Parking 
Estimated timeframe  
Pre-occupancy (during the drafting of lease agreements), and 
ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$0 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
240 to 534  
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
9.83% to 21.97%

--- page 194 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |22 
In addition to the TDM measures identified in the previous Chapter, the following strategies would 
help to support further vehicle trip and VMT reduction for travel to and from the project site. They are 
offered as optional recommendations as they are measures that will require additional financial 
investment and are not required to meet the TIA VMT reduction requirement. 
Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy 
Dynamic carpooling platforms connect commuters going the same way through an app-based model. 
The property can partner with pre-established platforms to offer subsidies to residents and employees 
who choose to carpool. Waze Carpool and Scoop are the two official carpooling services that 
Commute.org partners with for San Mateo County and as such have a large pool of potential carpool 
partners. Working with these existing services will save the TDM Coordinator from creating a new 
rideshare database for the property which could become limited considering the small number of 
residents and limited employees.  
Implementation Guidelines: 
Offer and promote a daily or monthly subsidy to those who choose to utilize carpooling for their work 
commute. This can be done as a reimbursement or, if partnering with pre-established platforms, can 
be applied directly at the time of booking. For example, those who carpool to work can receive a $2 
subsidy toward the cost of their ride per day for carpooling a minimum of 15 days in a month.   
Table 15. Dynamic Carpooling Subsidy 
Estimated timeframe  
Ongoing  
Estimated cost  
$1,000 to $5,000 per year depending on policy set and number 
of participants 
Responsible party  
Property Management  
Estimated daily VMT reduced  
62 to 87  
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
1.73% to 2.89% with every five participants in the carpool 
program and will increase with each additional carpooler 
 
Bike Education / Workshops 
Encouraging bike ridership is one of the most effective ways of reducing short range trips by car. About 
59.4% of vehicle trips in the United States were less than six miles in 2017.1 The property could partner 
 
1 As per data collected from Office of Energy Efficiency and renewable Energy 2017. 
https://www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/articles/fotw-1042-august-13-2018-2017-nearly-60-all-vehicle-trips-were-less-six 
miles#:~:text=Data%20collected%20on%20one%2Dway,distance%20categories%20about%205%25%20each. 
Optional TDM Strategies

--- page 195 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |23 
with local bike advocacy groups, bike shops or Commute.org to host bike safety workshops to educate 
residents and employees on the basics of biking and share educational resources such as maps of 
nearby bike amenities (such as BikeLink lockers at Caltrain stations). Given the size of the project site, if 
demand for full workshops doesn’t exist, it may be more appropriate to support residents and 
employees in one-on-one support from bike shops.  
Implementation Guidelines:  
Partner with Commute.org or a local bike advocacy organization to organize a bicycle safety training 
webinar or workshop annually. Commute.org offers free bike training workshops to employers and 
residential properties within San Mateo County. 
• 
Promote the workshop or webinar along with additional resources on the property’s dedicated 
website, resident and employee bulletin board, and social media. Some additional resources to 
share with residents and employees include:  
– 
Bike Safety and Rules of the Road 
– 
Family Biking - How to Bike Safely with Adults and Kids of Any Age  
– 
Biking Maps and Trails  
 
Table 16. Bike Education/Workshops 
Estimated timeframe  
75% occupancy, annually  
Estimated cost  
$0  
Responsible party  
Property management to coordinate  
Estimated daily VMT reduced 
4 to 9 
Percent of daily vehicle trips reduced 
0 to 0.58% for every five individuals who participate in a 
workshop and will increase further with additional participants

--- page 196 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |24 
If implemented correctly and consistently, the TDM program outlined is forecasted to result in a daily 
reduction of over 366 to 432 vehicle miles traveled (VMT) on a low estimate, which would lead to a 
reduction in over 125 to 148 kilograms of carbon dioxide every day. 
VMT Reduction Calculations 
Estimated VMT reduction calculations were made using the TDM Return on Investment (ROI) 
Calculator, a tool owned by Mobility Lab and developed by university and governmental partners. The 
TDM ROI Calculator helps practitioners and policy makers understand the benefits of their investment 
in TDM strategies and programs by calculating estimated vehicle trips, VMT, hours of congestion delay, 
and emissions reduced. More information about the TDM ROI Calculator and assumptions made to 
calculate estimated impacts are included in Exhibit A. 
It was determined that the project will result in 25 residential commuters and 45 employee commuters 
(as shown in Table A.4 of Exhibit A) to the site area. The expected project VMT/capita and 
VMT/Employee are 14.8 and 22.2 respectively, and, as per the Traffic Impact Assessment done by 
AECOM,  a reduction of at least 1.7 VMT/capital and 6.9 VMT/employee would be needed in order to 
meet the City thresholds (13.1 VMT/capita and 15.3 VMT/employee). The total required reduction is 
therefore 353, as demonstrated in Table 17 below.  
Table 17: VMT Reduction Calculations 
Category 
Expected 
project 
generated 
VMT  
City VMT 
threshold 
Difference 
between 
expected project 
generated VMT 
and City 
threshold 
No. of 
commuters  
Required VMT 
Reduction  
Total Daily Residential 
VMT reduction needed 
14.8  
13.1 
1.7 VMT/capita 
25 residential 
commuters 
1.7 * 25 = 42.5 
Total Daily Commercial 
VMT reduction needed 
22.2  
15.3 
6.9 
VMT/employee 
45 employee 
commuters 
6.9 * 45 = 310.5 
Total Daily VMT reduction required 
353 
 
Program Impacts 
TDM Program for 1 Hayward Ave 
Table 18 outlines the total estimated VMT and congestion hours reduced with the recommended TDM 
program for the project site. 
Impacts of Project TDM Measures

--- page 197 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |25 
Table 18. Project TDM Measures Impact Overview 
1 Hayward 
Ave 
Daily VMT Reduced 
Daily Vehicle Trips 
Reduced 
Daily Congestion 
Reduced  
(hours of delay) 
Daily Carbon Dioxide 
Reduced (kg) 
 
 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low Est. 
High Est. 
Recommended 
TDM Program 
366 
712 
26 
51 
16 
22 
125 
243 
Recommended 
and Optional 
TDM Program 
432 
808 
29 
57 
25 
35 
148 
276 
Individual Strategies 
Table 19 outlines the individual program components and estimated daily VMT reduction ranges for 
each TDM strategy. This is presented in order to provide an understanding of which strategies are the 
most impactful. However, whenever possible, program impacts should be measured and estimated 
holistically as TDM services often are designed to work together, with one service reinforcing another 
and there can be substantial overlap among the services. Given that Table 18 demonstrates a 
comprehensive calculation of the impacts from all services together, they may not match the totals of 
the impacts from each strategy individually, as depicted in Table 19. 
Table 19. Individual Impacts of Project TDM Measures  
Strategy 
Daily VMT 
Reduced 
Daily Vehicle 
Trips Reduced 
Daily Congestion 
Reduced (hours 
of delay) 
Daily Carbon 
Dioxide Reduced 
(kg) 
  
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
Low 
Est. 
High 
Est. 
TDM Coordinator 
19 
37 
1 
2 
3 
6 
6 
13 
Institutionalizing TDM at the 
Property 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
New Resident + New Employee 
Packet  
87 
97 
5 
5 
11 
13 
30 
33 
Wayfinding to outside building 
(signs/stickers) 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
TDM Communications 
7 
15 
0 
1 
1 
2 
2 
5 
Bike share 
8 
16 
2 
4 
0 
0 
3 
6 
Unbundled Parking 
240 
534 
17 
38 
0 
0 
82 
183 
(Optional) Dynamic carpooling 
subsidy 
62 
87 
3 
5 
8 
12 
21 
30 
(Optional) Bike Education and 
Promotion 
4 
9 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
3

--- page 198 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |26 
Annual monitoring and reporting are required from the site by the City of San Mateo.  Ongoing 
monitoring will help the project site track the impact of their TDM programs as well as provide a 
regular schedule for evaluating programming and identifying gaps and opportunities. The results will 
help the building adjust programs to better meet the needs of their residents and employees.  
Annual Survey 
The City of San Mateo requires an annual letter to the Public Works Director or designee that outlines 
the TDM measures implemented and information from a mode split survey.  
To comply with City requirements, the TDM Coordinator will conduct an annual resident and employee 
survey to understand commute patterns and the modes by which they commute. During the first year 
of occupancy, an initial survey should be conducted to establish a baseline to which future surveys will 
be compared. 
The baseline survey and the subsequent annual surveys should ask questions to understand how 
residents and employees travel for different types of trips and understand barriers to sustainable 
travel. To gain insight into the resident’s and employee’s travel characteristics and attitudes, the survey 
should identify the following key topics: 
• 
Mode of travel by trip purpose (work, school, leisure, etc.) 
• 
Work location 
• 
Business travel requirements, if applicable 
• 
Daycare or school pick-up/drop-off location, if applicable  
• 
Flexible working arrangements, if applicable 
• 
Improvements to the main mode of travel 
• 
Current barriers to walking/biking 
• 
Ideas for how the property could encourage walking, biking, carpooling and transit 
• 
Car ownership 
• 
Level of awareness of the property’s TDM amenities  
• 
Feedback on amenities and services currently available to the residents and employees 
• 
Other services or amenities that are not currently offered that would encourage residents and 
employees to try a different mode of travel 
The survey results allow the property to not only track program progress but also identify ways to 
adjust the program and further shift travel behavior towards more sustainable modes (transit, bike, 
walk and carpool) over time. The TDM Coordinator could use the data to understand which amenities 
are popular and should remain, which are not effective and should be adjusted, and identify additional 
measures to implement at their site.  
 
 
Monitoring

--- page 199 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
March 2022 |27 
 
 
Exhibits

--- page 200 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
The Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Return on Investment-(ROI) Calculator is a tool 
owned by Mobility Lab, an Arlington County, Virginia funded transportation behavior and policy 
research center. It was developed in partnership with university and governmental partners, with 
funding from the Federal Highway Administration, to provide TDM program staff, transportation 
planners, and others involved in implementing TDM services a quantifiable way to estimate the 
ROI for TDM services.  
According to the TDM ROI Calculator User Manual, the model calculates impacts for individual 
TDM services then combines the individual impacts, with discounts to account for overlap 
between services, to determine the cumulative impact of all services.2 
The calculator performs the following functions:  
• 
Estimates TDM travel impacts, defined as reductions in commute vehicle trips and vehicle 
miles travelled (VMT), from a user-defined package of TDM services  
• 
Converts vehicle trip and VMT reductions into societal benefits, such as reduction in hours of 
travel time delay and gallons of gasoline saved  
• 
Calculates the societal cost savings from each benefit and the overall cost saving from all 
benefits combined  
• 
Compares the societal cost saving to the TDM program "investment" cost to estimate ROI  
As most TDM programs do not have detailed VMT and trip reduction data, the ROI Calculator 
instead asks for user participation numbers and program costs as the inputs for its calculations. 
The model then uses four calculation factors derived from TDM service user surveys along with 
pre-set regional inputs and national environmental data to estimate the number of participants 
who will shift behavior and the number of daily vehicle trips, VMT and hours of congestion that 
their behavior shift will reduce. If more detailed regional and national data are known, they can be 
input to override the preset data used for calculation.   
The inputs used for calculating the VMT and vehicle trip reductions for the 1 Hayward Avenue 
TDM Plan are outlined below so that the results can be duplicated with ease.  
 
 
 
2 Mobility Lab.(2019).TDM ROI Calculator User Manual Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/calculators/ 
A TDM ROI Calculator

--- page 201 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
A1 
Regional Inputs  
At the outset in Section A (Your Region, Service Area Type and Transit Availability), the TDM ROI Calculator 
asks users to make a series of selections to determine geographic and transit characteristics of the area 
being examined. The options selected for the 1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan are displayed in Table A.1 as 
follows:  
 
Table A.1: Selections made for region, service area type and transit availability   
Questions in the ROI Calculator 
Option Selected for the TDM Plan 
Metropolitan Region 
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA 
Primary land use density and development pattern 
Moderate density, urban or small city/town 
Primary focus of TDM program outreach  
Primarily to commuters at residential areas 
Percentage of commuters within ½  mile of 
bus/train stop in the service area  
76% to 100% of commuters are within ½ mile of a 
bus or train stop 
Average public transit frequency in the service area 
in the morning peak period (Select ONLY ONE 
option) 
Low- Average rush hour frequency for most routes 
is 31 minutes or more OR there is no transit service 
With the above inputs selected, the model determines the classifications for the project site as follows in 
Table A.2: 
Table A.2: Project site TDM service area and transit availability classifications  
Your TDM Service Area classification is: 
Suburban/Small city 
Your Transit Availability classification is: 
Moderate Transit

--- page 202 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
A2 
Regional Travel, Environmental and Cost Benefit Factors  
The final section of the ROI Calculator (Section F - Additional Regional/Service Area Data 
Environmental Inputs) shows the default numbers used for regional travel, environmental and 
cost benefit factors. Users have the option to override these defaults by inputting values into the 
“User Defined” cells if specific local factors are known. Table A.3 shows the defaults assumed by 
the model and indicates if the defaults were overridden, and which values were used. The inputs 
defined in Table A.3 remained the same for all calculations for the 1 Hayward Ave TDM Plan. 
Table A.3: Travel, vehicle pollutant emission, and benefit cost factor default and user defined values   
Regional Travel Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Average home-to-work commute miles for the region (one-way distance)  
9.6 
13.91 
Percentage of regional commuters who drive alone to work OR percentage 
of weekly commute trips made by driving alone  
63.2% 
62%2 
Percentage of regional commuters who ride public transit to work OR 
percentage of weekly commute trips made by transit  
17.6% 
17%2 
Regional Vehicle Pollutant Emission Factors 
National 
Default 
User 
Defined 
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.445 
0.1713 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emission rate in grams per mile of travel  
0.075 
0.0354 
Greenhouse gas (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) emission rate in grams per mile 
of travel  
387.460 
342.0004 
Regional Benefit Cost Factors 
Regional 
Default 
User 
Defined  
Median average wage rate for commuters in the service area or 
metropolitan region  
$24.90 
$49.711 
Estimated average annualized cost to build/maintain one lane-mile of major 
roadway (combination of Interstate and limited access roadway) 
$165,000 
N/A 
Average pump price per gallon for regular unleaded gasoline 
$3.36 
$3.973 
1 Source: San Mateo Economic Development Association’s Labor Supply and Commute Patterns in San Mateo County 
Report, 2012.  
2 Source: ACS 2018 5-year for the Census Tract 6075, Census.gov 
3 Source: Gas Price Watch 
4 Source: California Air Resources Board Emissions Factors (EMFAC) database

--- page 203 ---
1 Hayward Avenue TDM Plan | TDM Plan 
 
Assumptions 
Resident Characteristics Assumptions 
To estimate potential participation numbers, some assumptions about the number of individuals 
living at the property at 100% occupancy were made. These assumptions begin with the 
knowledge that there will be 18 units for rent. The assumptions and the basis for each are 
outlined in Table A.4.  
Table A.4: 1 Hayward Avenue resident and employee characteristics assumptions  
Category 
Assumption and Basis 
Number 
Total number of people 
residing at the property at full 
occupancy 
ACS data indicates that there are 2.1 persons per 
household in the census tract 6064 and there will be 18 
one-bedrooms on site.  
38 
Children under 18 
ACS data shows that 14% of the census tract’s 
population is children 
5 
Adults 
Subtracting children from the total population  
33 
Number of residential 
commuters 
ACS data shows that 30.3% of people residing in the 
census tract are not in the labor force 
25 
Number of employee 
commuters  
California building code prescribes a minimum 100 sq. 
ft. per occupant for office space and there will be 4,495 
sq. ft. of office space on the ground floor.  
 
45 
ROI Calculator Participation and Calculation Factors Assumptions 
In order to use the ROI calculator to calculate estimated impacts for the 1 Hayward Avenue 
project, assumptions were made to estimate participation rate for each strategy. Additionally, if a 
strategy was not outlined as a direct input in the model, assumptions were made to estimate the 
calculation factors associated with it. Table A.5 outlines those assumptions.

--- page 204 ---
Table A.5: Participation and calculation factor assumptions used for TDM measures   
Strategy 
ROI Calc 
Input  
Participatio
n 
Assumption 
(per year) 
Basis for Participation Assumption 
Placement 
Rate (%) 
Assumptio
n 
Vehicle 
Trip 
Reduction 
Factor 
Assumptio
n 
One-Way 
Commute 
Distance 
Assumption 
Drive-
Alone 
Access % 
Assumptio
n  
TDM 
Coordinator  
Comprehensive 
commute 
assistance 
7 
Organize all TDM activities on the property and 
assist 5% of residents with questions about 
transportation including one-on-one assistance 
when asked and promoting sustainable 
transportation options  
40% 
Pre-set in 
mode 
0.8 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Institutionalizin
g TDM at the 
Property 
General 
marketing 
70 
All adults residing at the property would see and 
sign the lease. All employees will also benefit 
from the lease agreement between the 
employer and property management. 
 
0% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
New Resident + 
New Employee 
Packet  
Alternative 
mode “try it” 
incentive 
13 
Each household on the property would receive a 
packet. At a minimum, the transit users (9, 12%) 
would take advantage of the cards and an 
additional 5% (4) will “try it” based on the transit 
mode split and ease of accessing the incentive 
50% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Wayfinding to 
outside 
building 
(signs/stickers) 
Targeted 
residential 
marketing 
83 
The decals would be visible to all residents 
 
1% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.5 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
TDM 
Communicatio
ns 
Commute 
program 
website  
25 
10% of adults would access webpage for 
transportation info and incentives and 
approximately 25% would see the newsletter 
and social media communications, especially if 
they are included with communications 
regarding other property updates.  
35% 
Pre-set in 
model 
0.3 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model

--- page 205 ---
Bike Share 
Bike Share 
6 
3% of commuters will use it and an additional 3 
users will try it based on updated placement rate 
to 50% and increased trips replated to 1.4. 
(Jump from 30 participants to over 100 - 
https://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2020/05/24/b
ay-area-residents-rediscover-the-joys-of-cycling-
during-pandemic/) 
50% 
custom 
model 
1.4 
custom 
model 
4.5 miles 
Pre-set in model 
0% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Unbundled 
Parking 
Custom 
24 
All residents (33) of the 18 apartments, apart 
from the residents renting the available 9 
parking spaces, will be able to exclude the cost 
of parking from their lease agreement.  
 
100% 
custom 
model 
2.0 
custom 
model 
13.9 miles 
custom model 
0% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Dynamic 
carpooling 
subsidy 
Ongoing multi-
modal 
incentive 
5 
5% of the population carpools and with an 
additional incentive more people could be 
motivated to carpool 
50% 
Pre-set in 
model 
1.0 
Pre-set in 
model 
19.8 miles 
Pre-set in model 
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
Bike Education 
and Promotion 
Custom 
5 
Approximately 5 individuals will attend the 
workshop. Two are already bikers and the 
general increased interest in biking coupled with 
the lack of parking may motivated additional 
individuals to consider biking. That number is 
likely to increase over time as bike infrastructure 
improves. According to NACTO, approximately 
30 of the 71 adults at the property would be 
willing to ride a bike on streets with a protected 
bike lane.  
20% 
Pre-set in 
model (for 
commute 
challenges/ 
events) 
1.2 
Used the 
same pre-
set for a 
bike 
commute 
program 
10 miles 
Average doable 
biking distance 
according to 
Mobility  
Lab A1  
40% 
Pre-set in 
model 
A1 McLeish, Mike. (February 27,2017). How far is too far to bike to work? Retrieved from https://mobilitylab.org/2017/02/27/how-far-bike-work/  
A2 National Association of City Transportation Organizers. (July 20, 2016). High-Quality Bike Facilities Increase Ridership and Make Biking Safer. Retrieved from 
https://nacto.org/2016/07/20/high-quality-bike-facilities-increase-ridership-make-biking-safer/  
A3 Eco-Counter. (January 2021). Bike count trends by North American region for December 2020 (compared to Dec 2019). Retrieved from https://www.eco-
compteur.com/en/cycling-data-tracker/

--- page 206 ---
Introduction  
 
The City of San Mateo has commissioned Steer to develop a Transportation Demand Management 
(TDM) Plan for the 1 Hayward Ave. project site to reduce the ceiling of potential congestion and 
trips generated by the project. The project is a planned mixed-used property owned by One 
Hayward Avenue LLC. and being developed by ARC TEC Inc. (referred to as “the developer” or as 
“ATI” throughout this document).  
The TDM Plan development process begins with a thorough assessment of the site, including 
existing and planned conditions. A combination of desktop-based research and analyses, review of 
available site plans and renderings, and study of planned developments was utilized in our 
understanding of the site conditions. Insight from the City and developer team has also been 
incorporated into this document.  
This document details the following aspects of the site and project:  
• 
Project Description  
• 
Physical Attributes  
– 
Site Geography and Road Network  
– 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure  
– 
Transit Services  
• 
Nearby Attractions  
• 
Available TDM Services  
• 
Travel Trends  
B Background Assessment Memo

--- page 207 ---
• 
Next Steps  
 
Project Description   
The project site is located at 1 Hayward Ave. in Central San Mateo within the 94401 ZIP code. This 
project involves the demolition of the existing structures and the development of a four-story 
mixed-use building with 18 residential units.  The project includes:  
1. 4,495 sq.ft. of office space on the ground floor 
2. 15,315 sq.ft. of residential area (3 junior one-bedrooms and 15 one-bedrooms) on levels 2 
through 4  
3. Subterranean parking garage with 22 parking spaces 
The site is a 12,820 sq.ft./.29 acre corner-plot located at the intersection of N El Camino Real and 
Hayward Ave.  The site is zoned Executive Offices with Residential Overlay (E2-1/R-4). As shown in 
Figure 1, the area immediately surrounding the project site is primarily zoned One Family Dwelling 
“C” (R1C), with other corner plots designated as Executive Offices (E2-1) or High-Density Multiple 
Family Dwellings (R5). The parcels north of the site, within the Downtown San Mateo area, are 
zoned R5, R6-D, and Central Business District (CBD) that allows for high-density residential, retail, 
cultural, entertainment, and community service uses which have the potential to generate traffic 
and congestion around the project site. The area to the south, east, and west generally 
accommodates low traffic generating uses such as single-family residential and incidental 
commercial uses.

--- page 208 ---
Figure 7: Zoning Map 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Zoning Map  
The project site allows for a maximum FAR of 2 and an allowable height of 40 feet. The developer 
used the state density bonus provisions to increase the number of buildable units from 12 to 18, 
by proposing to devote two units (16%) to the very low-income category. Similarly, using the 
General Plan provisions, a request was also filed for increasing the maximum building height from 
40ft to 55ft in lieu of providing certain public benefits. There is an economic study underway to 
determine the appropriate amount of financial contribution from the developer. The financial 
contribution may target improvements in the area nearby the project site. Table 20 provides 
additional details regarding the proposed project compared to the parcel’s current use. 
Table 20: Proposed Project Attributes 
 
Current  
Proposed 
Description 
5 dwelling units and 1 commercial unit   
4-story mixed-use building 
Square Footage 
6,754 sq.ft. (5,639 sq.ft. residential area 
and 1,115 sq.ft. commercial area)  
23,275 sq.ft. total floor area, including office and 
residential area 
Zoning Designation 
Executive Offices with Residential Overlay 
(E2-1/R-4) 
Executive Offices with Residential Overlay (E2-
1/R-4) 
As per the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC), the project requires a total of 23 parking spaces - 
14 parking stalls for commercial office use and 9 stalls for residential use. However, the project 
Project Site

--- page 209 ---
proposes only 22 subterranean vehicle parking spaces on-site. To reduce the required commercial 
use parking by 1 unit, the developer has requested a state density bonus waiver to modify the 
commercial parking ratio from 1 stall per 335 sq.ft. to 1 stall per 360 sq.ft. Additionally, a density 
bonus waiver has also been requested to allow 66% various sized “compact” spaces, exceeding 
the allowable 30% (SMMC 27.64).  The project has provided more than the required infrastructure 
for short-term bicycle parking for residents and guests. In addition to the required 2 short-term 
space and 19 long-term spaces, the project has provided an additional 2 short-term spaces to 
provide a total of 4 short-term and 19 long-term bicycle parking spaces. The project site is located 
almost equidistant and within 0.8 miles of both Hayward Park and Downtown San Mateo Caltrain 
Stations.  
Table 21. Required vs. Provided Bicycle Parking 
 
Required Bicycle Parking  
Provided Bicycle Parking  
Multi-family dwelling  
1 Short-term, 18 Long-term 
2 Short-term,  18 Long-term 
Office  
1 Short-term, 1 Long-term 
2 Short-term, 1 Long-term 
The office and residential community will be managed by a property manager once units are 
available for rent. 
Physical Attributes  
Site Geography and Road Network  
As shown in Figure 8, the project site is located at the intersection of the six-lane arterial El 
Camino Real (Highway 82) and local street Hayward Ave. The site is surrounded by: 
• 
Arterial N El Camino Real (Highway 82) to the west 
• 
Local street Hayward Ave. to the south  
• 
3 story multi-family building to the east  
• 
Dentist office and 4 story multi-family building to the north  
The site is within walkable distance from Downtown San Mateo, which is less than 0.5 miles away:  
• 
4 mins by car   
• 
3 mins by bike  
• 
8 mins by SamTrans ECR Bus  
• 
10 mins by walking

--- page 210 ---
Figure 8: Street Network 
 
Source: City of San Mateo General Plan   
Figure 9. A view of the project site 
 
Source: San Mateo County GIS   
In terms of highway access, the project site is located adjacent to the N El Camino Real (Highway 
82).The closest US-101 and SR-92 highway on-ramps are situated 1.2 miles east and 0.8 miles 
south of the project site respectively. By traveling on El Camino Real, US-101, and SR-92, drivers 
Project Site

--- page 211 ---
can reach as far as San Francisco, Hayward, Palo Alto, and Mountain View within 20 minutes. 
However, during the peak hours of 4 to 6 PM, driver access is limited significantly, as shown in 
Figure 10.  
Figure 10. 20 Minute Car Shed for 1 Hayward Ave. 
  
 
Source: WalkScore.com 
The intersection of El Camino Real and 4th Ave., the first major intersection coming out of the 1 
Hayward Ave. development that has been assessed as part of the 2018 City of San Mateo Existing 
Conditions Report - Circulation, sees reasonably free flow in the AM with a ‘B’ Level of Service 
(LOS) but during PM hours, vehicular traffic at the intersection gets close to capacity and therefore 
has a “C” LOS.   
Table 22. Levels of service for the El Camino Real and 4th Ave 
 
Signalized Intersection Peak-Hour Levels of Service 
 
Year 2018 Conditions 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
Delay 
LOS 
Delay 
LOS 
El Camino Real and 4th Ave 
19.3 
B 
22.3 
C 
Source: San Mateo Existing Conditions Circulation Report (October 2018) 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Infrastructure  
The site’s topography, street network, and proximity to Downtown San Mateo are conducive to 
pedestrian and bicycle access. The walkability website Walkscore.com gives the site an 84/100 for 
walking, which they classify as “very walkable – most errands can be accomplished on foot”. The 
walkshed for the project site is seen in Figure 11.  
Free Flow: 20-minute driving shed from 1 Hayward Ave. 
Rush Hour: 20-minute driving shed from 1 Hayward Ave.

--- page 212 ---
Located 400 ft away, the closest existing bike 
lane to the project site is the Class II bike lane 
on Palm Ave. that connects Hayward Park 
Caltrain station to San Mateo Central Park. 
The Palm Ave. bike lane extends beyond 
South Blvd. as a Class III bike route that 
connects the Hayward Park Caltrain Station to 
25th Ave. In the north, the Palm Ave. bike lane 
connects the site to 9th Ave. which extends to 
Downtown San Mateo. However, there is a 
network gap between 9th Ave./Palm Ave. and 
9th Ave./Laurel Ave. which creates an unsafe 
intersection for bikers. Delaware St., which 
can be accessed via the bike lane on Palm 
Ave. (located 0.5 miles away from the site), is 
a combination of Class II bike lane and Class III 
bike route and traverses across the City of San Mateo, 
connecting the northernmost Peninsula Ave. to Franklin 
Pkwy in the south which is 0.2 miles north of Hillsdale Blvd. The Delaware St. extends beyond 
Hillsdale Blvd. as Pacific Blvd. which has segments of both Class II bike lanes and Class III bike 
routes and provides connectivity to the southerly border of the City. It runs parallel to Caltrain 
tracks and connects residential and commercial areas to all the three Caltrain stations within San 
Mateo.  
Figure 12: Existing Bicycle Network 
 
Source: WalkScore.com 
Figure 11. 20-minute pedestrian shed for 1 Hayward Ave. 
Project Site

--- page 213 ---
Source: Toole Design Group (on behalf of City of San Mateo, Bicycle Master Plan 2020) 
Due to minimal traffic, presence of on-street vehicular parking, and presence of a bike facility, 
Palm Ave. has been designated as a “Low-stress” street by the April 2020 San Mateo Bicycle 
Master Plan and is considered suitable for most adults and families. Overall, the Hayward Park 
neighborhood is considered to have low-stress bikeways with very few high-stress barriers. 
However, due to higher traffic stress, and inadequate separation from vehicular traffic, Delaware 
St. has been classified as a ‘High-stress’ street, which is defined as being uncomfortable or 
unappealing to all cyclists other than those with high levels of experience and risk tolerance or 
those traveling by e-bike. As part of the Bicycle Master Plan, the existing bike lanes on Delaware 
St. are recommended for upgradation to buffered bike lanes to improve north-south connections 
into and out of Downtown San Mateo. Figure 13 shows the stress level of the surrounding area, 
with the immediate project area denoted by a purple box.  
Figure 13: Level of Stress 
 
Project Site

--- page 214 ---
Source: Toole Design Group (on behalf of City of San Mateo, Bicycle Master Plan 2020) 
In terms of nearby bicycle amenities, BikeLink operates multiple on-demand bike lockers located 
at nearby Caltrain Stations as well as the Hillsdale Shopping Center and its surrounding area. 
BikeLink allows bicyclists to securely store their bikes in lockers using a stored-value card that can 
be purchased online or at nearby vendors. There are four lockers at the nearest Caltrain Station 
(Hayward Park) and 24 at the Downtown station. Additionally, four free-to-use public bike repair 
stations are located within two miles of the project site. These stations are located at San Mateo 
City Hall, the San Mateo Main Library, Ryder Court Park, and the downtown San Mateo Caltrain 
station. 
City of San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan  
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan was adopted by the City Council on April 6, 2020, and serves as a 
blueprint for expanding and improving the San Mateo bicycle and mobility network in the coming 
years. The Plan includes four recommendations relevant to 1 Hayward Ave. project site: 
 
• 
Notre Dame Ave. and 9th Ave. are offset from one another at El Camino Real, creating a 
dogleg intersection that will require bicycle infrastructure treatments along the short 
segment to connect the existing bike facilities.  
• 
Bike lane on 9th Ave., connecting El Camino Real to S B Street  
• 
Bike boulevard along Hobart Ave./12th Ave. connecting Edinburgh St. to S B St.  
• 
Buffered bike lane along Delaware St, connecting 5th Ave. to Concar St.   
Transit Services  
The project site is located within a 0.8-mile walk from both the San Mateo and  Hayward Park Caltrain 
Stations. The project site is also served by two San Mateo County Transit District (SamTrans) routes. 
Caltrain 
Caltrain connects the project site to San Francisco to the north as well as San Jose and Gilroy to 
the south. The project site is near both the San Mateo and Hayward Park stations, which can be 
accessed via bike, walk, transit, and car.  
Category 
San Mateo Station 
Hayward Park Station 
Frequency 
30-minute service during peak 
 
Hourly service during peak 
Walking Distance to 
Station 
0.8 miles 
 
0.8 miles

--- page 215 ---
SamTrans 
There are two SamTrans bus routes accessible to the project site within a 5-minute walk, which 
are described in the table below. SamTrans route ECR currently connects the project site to Daly 
City to the north and Palo Alto to the south. Route 55 offers connections to a middle school with a 
school-day only service schedule. The bus stop closest to the project site can be accessed via bike, 
walk, and car. Each SamTrans bus is equipped with bus bike racks that hold up to three bikes and 
trips cost $2.25 in cash or via mobile app or $2.05 if a Clipper card is being used. 
Nearby Attractions  
There are several attractions in the project vicinity that residents may visit regularly. Some of 
these attractions are detailed below and will likely be considered in the development of the final 
TDM plan. 
Shopping 
There are four shopping destinations within one-and-half mile walking distance of the project site 
that offer a large variety of retail and dining options.  
• 
Downtown San Mateo shopping area (0.5 miles), located primarily along E. 4th Ave. and 3rd 
Ave. and between N. El Camino Real and S. Eldorado St., provides access to a multitude of 
retail outlets, eateries, and grocery stores such as Draeger’s market, Suruki supermarket, etc.  
• 
Borel Square Shopping Centre (0.8 miles) has a pharmacy, gym, and additional fast-casual 
food options. There are also several fast-casual dining and stand-alone shopping options 
along El Camino Real and 20th Ave.  
• 
Shopping area along 17th St. and between N El Camino Real and Palm Ave. (0.8 miles) has a 
major grocery store, banks, and restaurants.  
 
Access  
Park and ride lot, bike racks, and 
BikeLink lockers 
 
Park and ride lot, bike racks, and 
BikeLink lockers 
Cost 
$3.20 - $10+ depending on distance 
 
$3.20 - $10+ depending on distance 
SamTrans 
Route # 
Hours of 
Operation 
Frequency 
Closest Stop 
Distance 
to Closest 
Stop 
Route Details 
ECR 
Daily – 4 AM to 
midnight 
15 minutes 
El Camino Real 
& 9th Ave 
0.1 miles/ 
2-minute 
walk 
Connecting Daly City 
BART Station to Palo 
Alto Transit Center 
55 
School Day 
Service Schedule 
1 morning 
bus, 2 
afternoon 
busses  
El Camino Real 
& 9th Ave 
0.1 miles/ 
2-minute 
walk 
Connection to a middle 
school

--- page 216 ---
• 
A shopping center (1.2 miles) is located at the intersection of Concar Drive and S. Delaware St. 
and includes major outlets such as T J Maxx, Rite Aid, Shane Co., Ross Dress for Less, Trader 
Joes, etc.  
Schools and Child Care 
About 18.5 percent of the population4 in the residential area (census tract) surrounding the 
project site have children under 18 years of age, suggesting that future tenants may need to add 
school or childcare trips into their schedule. Since school drop-offs and pickups can lead to 
significant traffic and congestion twice daily, the TDM Plan will explore synergies with existing Safe 
Routes to School (SRTS) programs and related trip reduction strategies.  
Childcare Centers 
There are five childcare centers located within a mile walking distance of the project site.  
• 
Papillon Preschool managed by Bright Horizons (0.3 miles) on N. El Camino Real  
• 
Lucy’s Learn and Plan Daycare (1 mile) at the corner of Folkstone Ave. and Sunnybrae Blvd.  
• 
Cheryl’s Daycare (1.1 miles at the intersection of S. Delaware St. and Cypress Ave.  
• 
Playful Learning Preschool/Childcare (0.9 miles) on Harrow Ave. 
• 
Bright Beginnings Montessori Preschool (0.3 miles) on Hobart Ave.  
Nearby Schools 
There are over a dozen schools within two miles’ travel of the project site. A comprehensive list of 
schools located within 2 miles of the project site is listed in Table 23. 
Table 23. Proximate School Distances 
Nearby Schools 
Travel distance 
in miles 
St. Matthew Catholic Elementary School  
0.2 
Sunnybrae Elementary School*  
0.7 
St Matthew’s Episcopal Day School  
0.7  
Borel Middle School*  
0.8 
Aragon High School*  
0.8 
Baywood Elementary School  
0.9  
South Hillsborough Elementary  
1.3 
Crystal Springs Uplands School  
1.4 
St. Timothy School  
1.5 
Stanbridge Academy  
1.5  
San Mateo High School  
1.6 
College Park Elementary School  
1.6 
San Mateo Adult School  
1.7  
 
4 2019 American Community Survey (ACS) 5-Year Estimates

--- page 217 ---
San Mateo Park School  
1.7 
North Shoreview Montessori  
1.8  
Pacific Rim International School  
1.9  
St. Catherine of Siena School  
1.9  
*Assigned public schools for 1 Hayward Ave.  
The 1 Hayward Ave. project site is zoned for, and is within walking and biking distance from, 
Sunnybrae Elementary School and Borel Middle School, which is included in the County’s Safe 
Routes to School program. Safe Routes to School San Mateo County promotes biking and walking 
to school for children countywide. The program focuses on improving the health, well-being, and 
safety of children as well as reducing traffic congestion and emissions caused by school-related 
travel. The program is led by a network of implementors and volunteers, often parents and PTA 
members.  
Figure 14 shows the scope of this Safe Routes to School program within a half-mile radius, 
including suggested walking and biking routes to Sunnybrae Elementary School and Borel Middle 
School. 
 
 
 
Source: San Mateo County Safe Routes to School Program  
Other Educational Institutions 
There are two universities within a 2-mile radius from the site.  
• 
Draper University (0.5 miles by foot ) on 3rd Ave. is a private, for-profit school that offers boot 
camp-style educational programming in collaboration with Arizona State University. 
• 
Samuel Merritt University on S. Amphlett Blvd. (2 miles by car) is the San Francisco Peninsula 
campus of the Oakland-based Samuel Merritt private university, focused on health sciences.  
Figure 14. Safe Routes to School map for Sunnybrae Elementary School and Borel Middle School

--- page 218 ---
Parks 
There are three parks located within one mile of the project site. 
• 
San Mateo Central Park is a 16.5-acre park, bounded by 9th Ave. on the south, E 5th Ave. on 
the north, N El Camino Real on the west, and Laurel Ave. on the east. The southern entrance 
to the site is only a 3 minutes’ walk and 1 minute bike ride (0.2 miles) from the project site. 
The park is the first public park in San Mateo and hosts a baseball field, tennis courts, 
sculptures, playground, Japanese tea garden, recreation center, miniature train, rose garden 
and the San Mateo Arboretum. Central Park is one of the most popular parks in San Mateo 
and thereby brings in both visitor and residential footfall, which will need to be considered 
when determining the TDM strategies.  
• 
De Anza Historical Park is a relatively smaller park, located along Arroyo Ct. It is one of the 
historical parks along the 1,200-mile Juan Buatista de Anza National Historic Trail that 
commemorates the route traveled by Anza and the colonists from Nogales, Arizona, to San 
Francisco. The park has a historic camp-site marker from 1775. The park is located only 0.7 
miles away from the project site can be easily accessed by walk (14 mins) or by bike (4 mins).  
• 
Hayward Square Park is a 0.25-acre community park, located at the intersection of S B St. and 
12th Ave. The park includes a garden, benches and chess playing areas.   
 
Available TDM Services:  
Commute.org Incentives 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency. Their 
resources are available to all residents and employees in the County. As such, the residents and 
employees of the project site will be able to take advantage of TDM resources curated for those 
commuting within the County and in the surrounding areas. The Commute.org website serves as a 
regional clearinghouse for all transportation and commuting-related information. They also 
provide the following services: 
• 
Try Transit Incentives: Commute.org provides a free ‘try transit’ program that allows 
individuals to request free tickets for the transit option that works best for them.  
• 
Carpool Incentives: Commuters who use Waze Carpool or Scoop are eligible to earn gift cards 
worth up to $100.  
• 
Vanpool Incentives: Drivers of a new vanpool can earn a $500 reward, and vanpool riders can 
be reimbursed $100/month of their costs for up to three months.  
• 
Bike Education: Free bike safety workshops and bike marketing materials are available to 
residents and commuters. These are scheduled upon request and are available to employers 
and other sites, including residential properties, within San Mateo County. They can be 60, 
75, or 90 minutes in length depending on what is ideal for the requesting party and include 
time for Q&A. 
• 
Bike Incentives: Commute.org currently provides commuters who live or work in San Mateo 
County with incentives worth between $25 to $100 for biking to work. To participate in the 
program, bike commuters must track their work commutes using the Strava app. The rides

--- page 219 ---
are then recorded in the STAR platform, iCommute.org’s incentive delivery platform, where 
commuters can access their incentives.   
 
Travel Trends:  
The travel trends and insights detailed in this section are based on data associated with the 
project’s census tract (6064.00). Census tracts are similar to neighborhoods and established by the 
Census Bureau for the purpose of analyzing populations.  
Demographic Insights 
The project site is located within census tract 6064, which has a population of 5,134 people. The 
demographic information in Table 24 and Figure 15 is collected from Census and 2019 American 
Communities Survey (ACS) data and will provide insight into the residents’ needs and behaviors. 
Table 24. Demographic data for census tract 6064 
Category 
Characteristics 
Amount 
Age 
Under 18 
14% 
18 to 64 
62% 
Over 65 
23% 
Education 
Bachelor's degree or higher 
73.1% 
Households 
Number of households 
2,413 
Renter-Occupied Housing Units 
59% 
Persons per household 
2.1 
Median household income  
$167,165 
Race 
White alone 
56% 
Asian alone  
25% 
Hispanic or Latino (of any race) 
12% 
Black or African American alone 
0.3% 
Languages 
spoken 
Speak only English  
65% 
Speak a language other than English: Spanish  
10% 
Speak a language other than English: Indo-European Languages 
6% 
Speak a language other than English: Asian and Pacific Island languages  
18% 
Source: 2019 ACS 5-Year Data Esitmates  
Commute Insights 
American Communities Survey data from 2018 indicates that a majority (65%) of those who live 
within the census tract commute to work by driving alone (Figure 15). The data also shows that 
23% of the population uses sustainable alternatives to drive-alone such as transit, carpool, walk 
and bike. The mean commute time across all travel modes is 30.6 minutes. About 11% of the 
population indicated that they regularly “worked from home”, however the share of teleworkers 
may be in flux at this time and in the future, due to the pandemic.

--- page 220 ---
Figure 15. Commute mode split for residents living in census tract 6064 
 
Source: 2019 ACS 5-Year Data Estimates, Census.gov (Universe: workers aged 16 and up) 
As shown in Table 25, residents of the area commute to a wide variety of locations, with 11.8% 
commuting within the City of San Mateo, and 11.2% commuting to San Francisco 
Table 25. Where people living in census tract 6064 worked in 2018 
Job Locations 
Count 
Share 
San Mateo, CA 
211 
11.8% 
San Francisco, CA 
201 
11.2% 
San Jose, CA 
76 
4.2% 
Foster City 
74 
4.1% 
South San Francisco 
52 
2.9% 
Other Locations 
1,176 
64.1% 
All Places (Cities, CDPs, etc.) 
1,790 
100% 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Inflow/Outflow analysis of the census tract, as shown in Figure 16, depicts that 2,422 individuals 
commute out of the area and 1,745 people commute into the area for work on a daily basis. A 
total of forty-five individuals both live and work inside the census tract.

--- page 221 ---
Figure 16. Inflow/Outflow of Commuters for census tract 6064 
 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies 
Next Steps  
Based on the information gleaned from the Background Assessment, our team will develop a Draft 
TDM Plan. The TDM Plan will include a list of recommended and optional TDM Strategies for the 
project site, and will touch on the following types of strategies:  
• 
Site elements  
• 
Education and incentives 
• 
Service provision  
• 
Monitoring and reporting  
Based on comments from the City of San Mateo we will edit and submit a finalized TDM Plan and 
will work with the City to ensure it is approved.

--- page 222 ---
Control Information 
Prepared by 
Prepared for 
Steer 
800 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1320, 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
USA 
+1 (213) 425 0990 
www.steergroup.com 
The City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
Steer project/proposal number 
Client contract/project number 
23911801 
 
 
Author/originator 
Reviewer/approver 
Parama Ghosh Roy 
Julia Wean 
 
Other contributors 
Distribution 
Nathan Pope 
Barbara Ledesma  
Puja Thomas-Patel  
Client:  
City of 
San 
Mateo 
Steer: 
 
Version control/issue number 
Date 
03.02.2022

--- page 223 ---
steergroup.com

--- page 224 ---
Appendix 3 
CAP Consistency Checklist 
 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project complies 
with the City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (CAP). The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 of the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP are eligible for 
streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this checklist for 
informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples of projects 
inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
• 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
• 
General Plan amendments.  
• 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase the 
population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan buildout 
scenario.

--- page 225 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST  
A-76 
City of San Mateo 
April 2015 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
 Industrial 
 Manufacturing 
 Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
 Yes  No 
If yes, please explain:

--- page 226 ---
APPENDIX 3 
April 2015 
Adopted Climate Action Plan 
A-75 
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
 Yes  No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply? 
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. New single family houses and multifamily 
residential buildings: Meet the standards to be solar 
ready as defined by the California Building Standards 
Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the square footage of the 
solar zone?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 5. New nonresidential buildings: Meet the 
standards to be solar ready as defined by the California 
Building Standards Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the square footage of the 
solar zone?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
AF 2. If off-street parking is provided, projects of at 
least six multi-family residential units and/or 10,000 
square feet of nonresidential square footage at 
time of new construction or addition or alteration 
(as defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Provide 
EV charging stations with 
designated parking spaces capable of meeting the 
California Green Building Code Voluntary Standards.  
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many EV charging stations 
are provided? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
AF 2. New single-family houses and multi-family 
units with private attached garages or carports: 
Provide pre-wired for an EV charging station inside the 
garage or carport. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces are prewired? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 227 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST  
A-76 
City of San Mateo 
April 2015 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply? 
Notes & Comments 
AT 2. New developments of at least six multi-family 
units and/or 10,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space: Implement TDM strategies to comply with the 
appropriate 
trip 
reduction 
target 
identified 
in 
applicable area plans and San Mateo Citywide TDM 
Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction target 
for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % 
long-term 
commute 
trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use to 
achieve these trip reduction targets?  
       
AT 2. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential space 
undergoing additions or alterations (as defined in 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.06.012): 
Implement TDM strategies consistent with the targets 
in relevant area plans and the San Mateo Citywide TDM 
Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction target 
for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % 
long-term 
commute 
trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use to 
achieve these trip reduction targets?  
      
SW 1. Commercial properties over 10,000 square 
feet and multi-family buildings of at least four units 
at time of construction or additions/alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Provide an area of sufficient space to store 
and allow access to a compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?

--- page 228 ---
ACOUSTICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA 
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF ACOUSTICAL CONSULTANTS 
 
 
 
 
NOISE ASSESSMENT STUDY 
“ONE HAYWARD MIXED-USE” 
ONE HAYWARD AVENUE, SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for 
Meridian Investments 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by 
Jeffrey K. Pack 
March 25, 2022 
Project No. 52-022-R3 
EDWARD L. PACK ASSOCIATES, INC.
1975 HAMILTON AVENUE                            Acoustical Consultants                             
TEL: 408-371-1195 
SUITE 26                                                                                                                      
FAX: 408-371-1196 
SAN JOSE, CA  95125                                                                                   
www.packassociates.com

--- page 229 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I. Executive Summary………………………………………………………….… 1 
 
II. Background Information on Acoustics............................................................... 3 
 
III. Noise Standards, Goals & Policies 
A. City of San Mateo General Plan......................................................................... 7 
B. State of California Code of Regulations, Title 24……………………………. 9 
C. California Environmental Quality Act............................................................... 9 
D. City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance…………………………………………. 10 
E. CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures……………………………. 13 
 
IV. Acoustical Setting 
A. Site and Traffic Descriptions………………………………….…………….. 15 
B. Project Description…………………………………………………………... 15 
 
V. Noise Impacts to the Project 
A. COVID-19 Scenario Noise Levels…………………………………………... 17 
B. Existing and Future Noise Levels………………………………………….... 18 
C. Exterior Noise Exposures……………………………………………………. 19 
D. Interior Noise Exposures……………………………………………….….… 20 
E. Exterior and Interior Noise Levels (CalGreen)………………………………. 21 
 
VI. Project-Generated Noise Impacts 
A. Project Traffic……………………………...................................................... 23 
B. Mechanical Equipment…………………………………………….………… 24 
C. Construction Phase Impacts………………………………………….……… 26 
 
VII. Mitigation Measures 
A. Traffic Noise Impacts to the Project – Interior……………………………… 34 
B. Construction Phase Noise and Vibration Impacts............................................ 36 
 
VIII. Conclusions.................................................................................................. 41 
 
APPENDIX A  
References........................................................................................................... A-1 
 
APPENDIX B 
1. Noise Standards.............................................................................................. B-1 
2. Terminology.................................................................................................. B-11 
3. Instrumentation.............................................................................................. B-13 
4. Mechanical Ventilation Requirements…………………………………… B-13 
5. Building Shell Controls……………………………………………………. B-14 
 
APPENDIX C 
Noise Measurement Data and Calculation Tables............................................... C-1 
Mechanical Equipment Product Data Sheets………………………………..… C-2

--- page 230 ---
- 1 - 
I. 
Executive Summary 
This report presents the results of a noise assessment study, in compliance with the 
California Environmental Quality Act, for a planned mixed-use development at 1 
Hayward Avenue at El Camino Real in San Mateo, as shown on the Site Plan, Ref. (a).  
This study includes an analysis of traffic noise impacts to the proposed development site, 
evaluations of the noise exposures against the standards of the City of San Mateo Noise 
Element, Ref. (b), and the State of California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Ref. (c).  
Short-term interior noise levels in the non-residential spaces were evaluated against the 
standards of the CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures of Title 24, Ref. (d).  
Project-generated noise from project traffic and construction were evaluated against the 
criteria of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Ref. (e), as administered by 
the City of San Mateo, and the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Noise Ordinance, Ref. 
(f).   
The following report includes background information on acoustics, noise standards 
applicable to the project, existing and future noise exposure impacts to the project, 
analyses of project-generated noise and mitigation measures for noise impacted receptor 
locations.  The results of this study reveal that the noise exposures at the site will be 
within the Conditionally Acceptable range of the City of San Mateo Noise Element.  
However, the noise exposures in the common area at the rear of the building will be 
within the Normally Acceptable range of the standards.  The interior noise exposures in 
the living spaces will exceed the limits of the Noise Element and Title 24 standards.  The 
interior noise levels in the commercial spaces will be within the limits of the CalGreen 
Non-Residential Mandatory Measures.  Project-generated traffic noise impacts and roof-
top mechanical equipment will be within the limits of the standards and will be Less-
Than-Significant.    
Noise mitigation measures for the noise impacted dwelling units will be required.  The 
recommended measures are provided in Section VII of this report.  Construction noise 
and vibration control measures are also provided herein.

--- page 231 ---
- 2 - 
 
Note: The traffic noise measurements were made during the height of the COVID-
19 pandemic when traffic volumes were lower than normal.  The noise data were 
adjusted to reflect recent traffic volume data.   
In terms of the CEQA compliance checklist, the project results in the following: 
a) Exposure of persons to or generation of noise 
 
levels in excess of standards established in the 
 
local general plan or noise ordinance, or applicable  
standards of other agencies?  
 
 
 
Less Than Significant With 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitigation 
b) Exposure of persons to or generation of 
 
excessive groundborne vibration or groundborne 
 
noise levels?  
 
 
 
 
 
Less Than Significant With  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitigation 
c) A substantial permanent increase in ambient 
 
noise levels in the project vicinity above levels 
 
existing without the project?  
 
 
 
Less Than Significant 
d) A substantial temporary or periodic increase 
 
in ambient noise levels in the project vicinity above  
levels existing without the project?  
 
 
Less Then Significant With 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mitigation 
e) For a project located within an airport land use 
 
plan or, where such a plan has not been adopted, 
 
within two miles of a public airport or public use 
 
airport, would the project expose people residing 
 
or working in the project area to excessive noise levels? 
No impact 
f) For a project within the vicinity of a private airstrip, 
 
would the project expose people residing or working 
 
in the project area to excessive noise levels?  
 
No impact

--- page 232 ---
- 3 - 
 
II. 
Background Information on Acoustics 
Noise is defined as unwanted sound.  Airborne sound is a rapid fluctuation of air 
pressure above and below atmospheric pressure.  Sound levels are usually measured and 
expressed in decibels (dB) with 0 dB corresponding roughly to the threshold of hearing. 
Most of the sounds which we hear in our normal environment do not consist of a 
single frequency, but rather a broad range of frequencies.  As humans do not have perfect 
hearing, environmental sound measuring instruments have an electrical filter built in so 
that the instrument's detector replicates human hearing.  This filter is called the "A-
weighting" network and filters out low and very high frequencies.  All environmental 
noise is reported in terms of A-weighted decibels, notated as “dBA”.  All sound levels 
used in this report are A-weighted unless otherwise noted.  Table I, below, shows the 
typical human response and noise sources for A-weighted noise levels.

--- page 233 ---
- 4 - 
 
 
TABLE I 
The A-Weighted Decibel Scale, Human Response, 
and Common Noise Sources 
 
Noise Level, dBA 
Human Response 
Noise Source 
 
120-150+ 
Painfully Loud 
Sonic Boom (140 dBA) 
 
 
 
100-120 
Physical Discomfort 
Discotheque (115 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Motorcycle at 20 ft. (110 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Power Mower (100 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
70-100 
Annoying 
Diesel Pump at 100 ft. (95 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Freight Train at 50 ft. (90 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Food Blender (90 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Jet Plane at 1000 ft. (85 dBA)  
 
 
 
Freeway at 50 ft. (80 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Alarm Clock (80 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
50-70 
Intrusive 
Average Traffic at 100 ft. (70 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Vacuum Cleaner (70 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Loud Conversation (60 dBA) 
 
 
 
Car Passby 15 ft. 10 mph (52-56 dBA) 
 
 
 
0-50 
Quiet 
Normal Conversation (50 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Light Traffic at 100 ft. (45 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Refrigerator (45 dBA)  
 
 
 
Desktop Computer (40 dBA) 
 
 
 
Whispering (35 dBA)  
 
 
 
Leaves Rustling (10 dBA) 
 
 
 
 
Threshold of Hearing (0 dBA)

--- page 234 ---
- 5 - 
 
Although the A-weighted noise level may adequately indicate the level of noise at 
any instant in time, community noise levels vary continuously.  Most environmental noise 
includes a mixture of noise from distant sources that create a relatively steady background 
noise from which no particular source is identifiable.  To describe the time-varying 
character of environmental noise, the statistical noise descriptors, L1, L10, L50 and L90 are 
commonly used.  They are the A-weighted noise levels exceeded for 1%, 10%, 50% and 
90% of a stated time period.  The continuous equivalent-energy level (Leq) is that level of 
a steady state noise which has the same sound energy as a time-varying noise.  It is often 
considered the average noise level and is used to calculate the Day-Night Levels (DNL) 
and the Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL) described below. 
In determining the daily level of environmental noise, it is important to account 
for the difference in response of people to daytime and nighttime noises.  During the 
nighttime, exterior background noises are generally lower than the daytime levels.  
However, most household noise also decreases at night and exterior noise becomes very 
noticeable.  Further, most people sleep at night and are very sensitive to noise intrusion.  
To account for human sensitivity to nighttime noise levels, the Day-Night Level (DNL) 
noise descriptor was developed.  The DNL is also called the Ldn.  Either is acceptable, 
however, DNL is more popular worldwide.  The DNL divides the 24-hour day into the 
daytime period of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and the nighttime period of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 
a.m.  The nighttime noise levels are penalized by 10 dB to account for the greater 
sensitivity to noise at night.  The Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL) is another 
24-hour average which includes a 5 dB evening (7:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.) penalty and a 10 
dB nighttime penalty.  Both the DNL and the CNEL average the daytime, evening and 
nighttime noise levels over a 24-hour period to attain a single digit noise exposure.  The 
proper notations for the Day-Night Level and the Community Noise Equivalent Level are 
dB DNL and dB CNEL, respectively, as they can only be calculated using A-weighted 
decibels.  It is, therefore, considered redundant to notate dB(A) DNL or dB(A) CNEL.  
Noise exposures are always rounded to the nearest whole number.

--- page 235 ---
- 6 - 
 
The effects of noise on people can be listed in three general categories: 
 
- 
subjective effects of annoyance, nuisance, dissatisfaction; 
 
- 
interference with activities such as speech, sleep, learning, relaxing; 
 
- 
physiological effects such as startling, hearing loss. 
The levels associated with environmental noise, in almost every case, produce 
effects only in the first two categories.  Workers in industrial plants, airports, etc., can 
experience noise in the last category.  Unfortunately, there is, as yet, no completely 
satisfactory way to measure the subjective effects of noise, or of the corresponding 
reactions of annoyance and dissatisfaction.  This is primarily due to the wide variation in 
individual thresholds of annoyance and differing individual past experiences with noise. 
An important way to determine a person's subjective reaction to a new noise is to 
compare it to the existing environment to which one has adapted, i.e., the "ambient".  In 
general, the more a new noise exceeds the previously existing ambient noise level, the 
less acceptable the new noise will be judged by the listeners. 
With regard to increases in A-weighted noise level, the Environmental Protection 
Agency has determined the following relationships that will be helpful in understanding 
this report. 
 
Except in carefully controlled laboratory experiments, a change of 
1 dB cannot be perceived. 
 
Outside of the laboratory, a 3 dB change is considered a just-
perceptible difference. 
 
A change in level of at least 5 dB is required before any noticeable 
change in community response would be expected. 
 
A 10 dB change is subjectively heard as approximately a doubling 
in loudness, and would almost certainly cause an adverse change in 
community response.

--- page 236 ---
- 7 - 
 
The adding or subtracting of sound levels is not simple arithmetic.  The sound 
levels, in decibels, must be converted to Bels, the anti-log’s of which are then calculated.  
The manipulation is then performed (arithmetic addition or subtraction), the logarithm of 
the sum or difference is calculated.  The final number is then multiplied by 10 to convert 
Bels to decibels.  The formula for adding decibels is as follows: 
Sum = 10log(10 SL/10 + 10 SL/10) 
where, SL is the Sound Level in decibels. 
For example, 60 dB + 60 dB = 63 dB, and 60 dB + 50 dB = 60 dB.  Two sound 
sources of the same level are barely noisier than just one of the sources by itself.  When 
one source is 10 dB higher than the other, the less noisy source does not add to the noisier 
source.  
III. 
Noise Standards, Goals & Policies 
A. 
City of San Mateo General Plan 
The noise assessment results presented in the findings were evaluated against the 
standards of the City of San Mateo Noise Element, which utilize the Day-Night Level 
(DNL/Ldn) descriptor.  The noise standards, goals and policies of the Noise Element are 
shown below.  
GOAL 1: Protect “noise sensitive” land uses from excessive noise levels.  
POLICIES: 
N 1.1:  Interior Noise Levels Standard.  Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and  
interior noise insulation for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-1 that have an 
exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1.  The maximum 
interior noise level shall net exceed 45 dB (Ldn) in any habitable rooms.   
(Tables N-1and N-2 and Figure N-1 are not shown in this report)

--- page 237 ---
- 8 - 
 
N 1.2:  Exterior Noise Level Standard.  Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, 
play areas, and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the enjoyment 
of residents) that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure 
N-1.  Require an acoustical analysis that uses the peak hour Leq for new parks and play 
areas.  Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into residential project design to 
minimize common open space noise levels.  Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 
67 dB (Ldn) for residential uses and should not exceed 65 dB (Leq) during the noisiest 
hour for the public park uses.   
Implementation of N 1.1 and N1.2: Interior and Exterior Noise Level Standards. 
As part of the development review process, an acoustical analysis is required for all new 
project types listed on Tables N-1 and N-2 when the site noise levels exceed the noise 
level standards established in the General Plan.  Mitigation measures to reduce both 
exterior and interior noise to acceptable levels are required as part of the analysis, and are 
incorporated into the conditions of project approval.   
Most of San Mateo has existing noise levels that exceed the normally acceptable levels 
for “noise –sensitive” uses.  Since the majority of the City is within the “conditionally 
acceptable” range of between 60 dB and 70 dB (Ldn), some form of noise mitigation will 
have to be incorporated into building and site design for new “noise-sensitive” land uses.  
While the State currently requires that multi-family dwellings in areas exceeding 60 dB 
(Ldn) incorporate mitigation measures to achieve an interior sound level of 45 dB (Ldn), 
the City of San Mateo will extend this requirement to single-family dwellings.  In most 
cases, the necessary sound attenuation can be accomplished with sound-rated double-pane 
windows. 
A few of San Mateo’s residential neighborhoods that border highways, El Camino Real 
(SR 82), and the railway line are subject to sound levels exceeding 70 dB (Ldn), which is 
the “normally unacceptable” range for “noise-sensitive” uses.  Rather than precluding 
new residential development in these areas, the City will require that building 
construction techniques be utilized that reduce interior sound to 45 dB (Ldn) or less (sic).

--- page 238 ---
- 9 - 
 
B. 
State of California Code of Regulations, Title 24 
The State of California Code of Regulations, Title 24 (CBC) standards use the 
DNL descriptor (to be consistent with local standards) and specify an interior noise 
exposure limit in living spaces of multi-family housing to 45 dB DNL from exterior noise 
sources.  This standard is the same as the City of San Mateo Noise Element standard 
described above.  
The Title 24 standards also specify minimum sound insulation ratings for 
common partitions separating different dwelling units and dwelling units from interior 
common spaces.  The standards specify that common walls must have a design Sound 
Transmission Class (STC) rating of 50 or higher.  Common floor/ceiling assemblies must 
have design STC ratings of 50 or higher and Impact Insulation Class (IIC) ratings of 50 or 
higher.  As the design details of the common interior partitions were not available at the 
time of this study, an evaluation of the interior partitions has not been performed.  
The noise exposures shown in this study are without the application of mitigation 
measures and represent the noise environment for current, existing and future project site 
conditions.  
C. 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Environmental noise exposure changes due to aspects of the project were 
evaluated against the guidelines of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  
CEQA does not limit noise levels or noise exposures nor does it quantify noise exposure 
or noise level increases over the ambient to define noise impacts.  CEQA evaluates a 
project as a significant noise impact if it “...caused a substantial increases in the ambient 
noise levels...”.  The quantification of the threshold of significance is left up to the local 
jurisdiction.  The City of San Mateo, however, does not provide a threshold of 
significance in the General Plan.  Therefore, for the purposes of this study, thresholds of 
significance used by many other local jurisdictions are recommended for adoption for this 
project.  The thresholds of significance shall be applied at the existing residential areas 
along El Camino Real and Hayward Avenue.

--- page 239 ---
- 10 - 
 
These thresholds are: 
(a) causing the DNL in existing residential areas to increase by 5 dB or more and 
remain below 60 dB DNL;  
(b) causing the DNL in existing residential areas to increase by 3 dB or more and, 
thereby, exceed 60 dB DNL;  
(c) causing the DNL in existing residential areas to increase by 1 dB or more if the 
current noise exposure exceeds 60 dB DNL.  
If the project causes any of the above three criteria to occur, the project will be 
considered a significant noise impact to the areas where it occurs and mitigation 
measures will be required.   
D. 
City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance 
The following is the portion of the City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance Title 7 of 
the City of San Mateo Municipal Code - Health, Sanitation and Public Nuisances, 
Chapter 7.30, which is pertinent to the planned project.  These noise limits, which are 
applied to the project-generated noise from mechanical equipment and construction, are 
based on the type of land use – in this case, mixed-use, designated as Noise Zone 2.  
7.30.030 DESIGNATED NOISE ZONES. 
The properties hereinafter described are hereby assigned the following noise zones: 
Noise Zone 1. All property in any single family residential zone (including adjacent parks 
and open space) as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the 
provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 2. All property in any commercial/mixed residential, multi-family residential, 
specific plan district or PUD as designated on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to 
the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions thereto. 
Noise Zone 3. All property in any commercial or central business district as designated 
on the City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto.

--- page 240 ---
- 11 - 
 
Noise Zone 4. All property in any manufacturing or industrial zone as designated on the 
City's zoning map prepared pursuant to the provisions of Title 27, or any revisions 
thereto. 
7.30.040 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS 
(a) It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any source of sound at 
any location within the City or allow the creation of any noise on property owned, leased, 
occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise level when 
measured on any other property to exceed: 
(1) The noise level standard for that property as specified in Table 7.30.040 for a 
cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour; 
(2) The noise level standard plus five dB for a cumulative period of more than 15 minutes 
in any hour; 
(3) The noise level standard plus 10 dB for a cumulative period of more than five minutes 
in any hour; 
(4) The noise level standard plus 15 dB for a cumulative period of more than one minute 
in any hour; or 
(5) The noise level standard or the maximum measured ambient level, plus 20 dB for any 
period of time. 
(b) If the measured ambient level for any area is higher than the standard set in Table 
7.30.040, then the ambient shall be the base noise level standard for purposes of 
subsection (a)(1) of this section. In such cases, the noise levels for purposes of 
subsections (a)(2) through (a)(5) of this section shall be increased in five dB increments 
above the ambient.

--- page 241 ---
- 12 - 
 
 
Table 7.30.040 
NOISE LEVEL STANDARDS* 
Noise Zone 
Time Period 
Noise Level (dB) 
 
Noise Zone 1        10 p.m.—7 a.m.           50 
         7 a.m.—10 p.m.          60 
Noise Zone 2        10 p.m.—7 a.m.          55 
         7 a.m.—10 p.m.          60 
Noise Zone 3        10 p.m.—7 a.m.          60 
         7 a.m.—10 p.m.          65 
Noise Zone 4         Anytime 
         70 
* Source: Adapted from "The Model Community Noise Control Ordinance," Office of 
Noise Control, California Department of Health. 
7.30.060 SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
Paragraphs (a)-(d) apply to sound performance, vehicles, alarms and emergencies 
and are not applicable to this project and are omitted for the sake of brevity. 
(e) Construction. Construction, alteration, repair or land development activities which are 
authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed on weekdays between the hours of 
seven a.m. and seven p.m., on Saturdays between the hours of nine a.m. and five p.m., 
and on Sundays and holidays between the hours of noon and four p.m., or at such other 
hours as may be authorized or restricted by the permit, if they meet at least one of the 
following noise limitations: 
(1) No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dB at a 
distance of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure or trailer on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet from the 
equipment as possible. 
(2) The noise level at any point outside of the property plane of the project shall not 
exceed 90 dB. 
(3) The operation of leaf blowers shall additionally comply with Chapter 10.80, 
Operation of Leaf Blowers.

--- page 242 ---
- 13 - 
 
E. 
CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures 
The CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures, which are part of Title 24, 
are applied to the commercial units of the project.  Section 5.507 “Environmental 
Comfort” contains two methods for determining the interior noise levels.  These methods 
impose different interior noise level requirements.  When on-site noise level data are 
available, the “Performance Method” is used.  The standards are outlined below.  
5.507.4 Acoustical control. Employ building assemblies and components with Sound 
Transmission Class (STC) values determined in accordance with ASTM E90 and ASTM 
E413 or Outdoor-Indoor Sound Transmission Class (OITC) determined in accordance 
with ASTM E1332, using either the prescriptive or performance method in Section 
5.507.4.1 or 5.507.4.2. 
5.507.4 Exterior noise transmission.  Wall and roof-ceiling assemblies exposed to the 
noise source making up the building or addition envelope or altered envelope shall meet 
a composite STC rating of at least 50 or a composite OITC rating of no less than 40, 
with exterior windows of a minimum STC of 40 or OITC of 30 in the following 
locations: 
Within the 65 CNEL noise contour of an airport 
Exceptions: 
1. Ldn or CNEL for military airports shall be determined by the facility Air 
Installation Compatible Land Use Zone (AICUZ) plan. 
2. Ldn or CNEL for other airports and heliports for which a land use plan that has 
not been developed shall be determined by the local general plan noise element. 
3. Within the 65 CNEL or Ldn noise contour of a freeway or expressway, 
railroad, industrial source or fixed-guideway notice source as determined by the 
Noise Element of the General Plan.

--- page 243 ---
- 14 - 
 
5.507.4.1.1 Noise exposure where noise contours are not readily available.  
Buildings exposed to a noise level of 65 dB Leq-1-hr during any hour of operation 
shall have building, addition or alteration exterior wall and roof-ceiling assemblies 
exposed to the noise source meeting a composite STC rating of at least 45 (or OITC 35), 
with exterior windows of a minimum STC of 40 (or OITC 30). 
 
5.507.4.2 Performance method.  For buildings located as defined in Section 5.507.4.1 
or 5.507.4.1.1, wall and roof-ceiling assemblies exposed to the noise source making 
up the building or addition envelope or altered envelope shall be constructed to provide 
an interior noise environment attributable to exterior sources that does not exceed an 
hourly equivalent noise level (Leq-1Hr) of 50 dBA in occupied areas during any hours of 
operations 
5.507.4.2.1 Site features. Exterior features such as sound walls or earth berms may be 
utilized as appropriate to the building, addition or alteration project to mitigate sound 
migration to the interior. 
5.507.4.2.2 Documentation of compliance.  An acoustical analysis documenting 
complying interior sound levels shall be prepared by personnel approved by the architect 
or engineer of record. 
5.507.4.3 Interior sound transmission.  Wall and floor-ceiling assemblies separating 
tenant spaces and tenant spaces and public places shall have an STC of at least 40. 
As noise level data for the site are available, the Performance Method of the 
CalGreen standards is used in this study.

--- page 244 ---
- 15 - 
 
IV. 
Acoustical Setting 
A. 
Site and Traffic Descriptions 
The planned development site is an approximate 0.29 acre parcel located at One 
Hayward Avenue at the northwest corner of El Camino Real in San Mateo.  Currently, the 
site contains three duplex residential buildings and businesses.  The site is relatively flat 
and at-grade with the surrounding roadways and land uses.  Surrounding land uses 
include multi-family residential adjacent to the northeast and across Hayward Avenue to 
the southeast, St. Matthew Elementary School across El Camino Real to the southwest 
and a medical office building adjacent to the northwest.  
The on-site noise environment is controlled primarily by traffic sources on El 
Camino Real, which carried an Average Daily Traffic (ADT) volume of approximately 
24,720 vehicles, as determined by manual traffic counts made during the PM peak hour 
during the peak of COVID-19.  The existing (2021) traffic volume, which is the most 
recent traffic datum available, indicates that the normal (non-COVID -19) volume is 
35,230 vehicles ADT, as reported by AECOM, Ref. (g).  The difference in the noise 
levels between last year’s COVID-19 scenario and the current condition is 1.5 decibels.   
B. 
Project Description 
The planned project includes the construction of a four story building with below 
grade parking.  The first floor will consist of office space.  Eighteen residential units will 
be location on the second, third and fourth floors.  Balconies will be provided for some of 
the dwelling units.  The common exterior living or open space area is along the rear of the 
building extending from the stairwells at the west end to the bicycle rack toward the east 
end.  The Site Plan is shown in Figure 1 on page 16.

--- page 245 ---
-16-

Divt v2 OSL hws

ill

Pe moneetrsemel
stood Et
~
seeee
|
ih
i
t
t
i

@i:

FIGURE 1 — Site Plan


--- page 246 ---
- 17 - 
 
V. 
Noise Impacts to the Project 
A. 
COVID-19 Scenario Noise Levels 
To determine the existing noise environment at the site, continuous recordings of 
the sound levels were made a location 51 ft. from the centerline of El Camino Real in the 
front yard of one of the existing homes on the site.  The sound meter was placed on a sign 
at an elevation of 13 ft. above the ground for security of the sound measuring equipment.  
The noise measurement location is shown on Figure 2 on page 18.  The measurements 
were made on August 26-27, 2020 for a continuous period of 24 hours and included 
representative hours during the daytime and nighttime periods of the DNL index.  The 
noise level data were acquired using a Larson-Davis Model 812 Precision Integrating 
Sound Level Meter.  The meter yields, by direct readout, a series of descriptors of the 
sound levels versus time, which are commonly used to describe community noise, as 
described in Appendix B.  The measured descriptors include the L1, L10, L50, and L90, i.e., 
those levels exceeded 1%, 10%, 50% and 90% of the time.  Also measured were the 
maximum and minimum levels and the continuous equivalent-energy levels (Leq), which 
are used to calculate the DNL.  The results of the measurements are shown in the data 
tables in Appendix C. 
As shown in the data table, the Leq’s at the time of the measurements at 51 ft. from 
the centerline of El Camino Real ranged from 61.8 to 72.3 dBA during the daytime and 
from 52.5 to 64.3 dBA at night.   
Traffic noise diminishes at the rate of 3 to 6 decibels for every doubling of the 
distance from the source to the receiver.  Thus, locations on the project at greater 
distances from El Camino Real will have lower noise levels.

--- page 247 ---
- 18 - 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 2 - Noise Level Measurement Location 
B. 
Existing and Future Noise Levels 
As the traffic volume during last year’s COVID-19 measurements was lower than 
the normal existing 2021 volume, the noise measurement data were adjusted upward to 
reflect the current existing traffic conditions.  The traffic volume counted during the noise 
measurement period indicates that the traffic volume at that time was 24,720 vehicles 
ADT.  The current traffic volume is 35,230 vehicles ADT.  Thus, the current noise levels 
are 1.5 dB higher that those measured in 2020. 
10log10(35,230/24,720) = 1.5 dB.

--- page 248 ---
- 19 - 
 
The future traffic volume for El Camino Real was provided by AECOM, which 
indicates cumulative traffic volume of 42,050 vehicles ADT.  As the traffic volume 
during the noise measurement period was 24,720 vehicles ADT, the future noise levels 
will be 2.3 decibels higher than the measured noise levels.  The future traffic noise 
increase over the existing condition volume of 35,230 vehicles ADT is 0.8 decibels.    
10log10(42,050/24,720) = 2.3 
10log10(42,050/35,230) = 0.8 
C. 
Exterior Noise Exposures 
The DNL for the survey location was calculated by decibel averaging of the Leq's 
as they apply to the daily time periods of the DNL index.  The DNL is a 24-hour noise 
descriptor that uses the measured Leq values to calculate a 24-hour time-weighted average 
noise exposure.  The formula used to calculate the DNL is described in Appendix B.  
Adjustments were applied to the measured noise levels to account for the various setback 
distances from the measurement locations using methods established by the Highway 
Research Board, Ref. (h).  As shown in subsection B, the noise levels under existing 
(2021) traffic conditions are 1.5 dB higher than the noise levels measured in 2020 during 
the height of the COVID-19 pandemic.  This increase in the hourly average noise levels 
also extends to the 24-hour average DNL value.  Likewise, the future traffic noise 
exposure will increase with the increases in the short term noise levels.  
 The exterior noise exposure at the most noise impacted planned 
building setback, 60 ft. from the centerline of El Camino Real 
under existing 2021 conditions, is 69 dB DNL.  Under future 
cumulative traffic conditions, the noise exposure is expected to 
increase to 70 dB DNL.

--- page 249 ---
- 20 - 
 
 The exterior noise exposure at the most noise impacted planned 
location of the common open space near the west end stairwells 
will be up to 55 and 56 dB DNL under existing 2021 and future 
cumulative traffic conditions, respectively.  This area is 137 ft. 
from the centerline of El Camino Real along an angled line-of-
sight past the westerly corners of the building.  These noise 
exposures also include a 6 decibel reduction factor provided by the 
6 ft. high property line barrier along the westerly property line.   
 As the exterior noise exposures in the common open space will be 
within the 60 dB DNL limit of the standards, noise mitigation 
measures for the exterior area will not be required.  
D. 
Interior Noise Exposures 
To evaluate the interior noise exposures in the project living spaces, a 15 dB 
reduction was applied to the exterior noise exposure to represent the attenuation provided 
by the building shell under an annual-average condition.  The annual average condition 
assumes that standard dual-pane thermal insulating windows are installed and are kept 
open up to 50% of the time for natural ventilation.  
 The interior noise exposures in the most noise impacted living 
spaces will be up to 54 and 55 dB DNL under existing and future 
traffic conditions, respectively.  Thus, the noise exposures will be 
up to 10 dB in excess of the limits of the City of San Mateo Noise 
Element and Title 24 standards.  
As the noise exposures will exceed the 45 dB DNL limit of the City of San Mateo 
Noise Element and Title 24 standards, noise reduction measures for the interior living 
spaces will be required.  The recommended measures are provided in Section VII of this 
report.

--- page 250 ---
- 21 - 
 
E. 
Exterior and Interior Noise Levels (CalGreen) 
The 2020 (COVID-19 scenario) exterior hourly average noise levels at the 
planned setback of the office space of the project ranged from 52.5 to 72.4 dBA Leq(h) 
over the course of the 24 hour day.  Adjusting the measured noise levels up by 1.5 dB to 
account for the increase in the noise levels under normal non-COVID-19 conditions, the 
hourly average noise levels are 54.0 to 73.9 dBA Leq(h).  Under future traffic conditions, 
the noise levels are expected to increase by 0.81 dB to 54.8 to 74.7 dBA Leq(h).  At the 
planned building setback of 60 ft. from the centerline of the road, the noise levels reduce 
by 1.1 dB to 53.7 to 73.6 dBA Leq(h).  
The projected interior noise levels were calculated by subtracting 25 dB from the 
exterior noise levels at the planned setback of the non-residential spaces to account for 
the building shell attenuation under standard commercial construction.   
The COVID-19 scenario noise levels measured at the measurement location, the 
current noise levels, the noise levels under future traffic conditions, the noise levels 
calculated for the setback of the office spaces and the interior noise levels in the offices 
spaces are shown in Table II, below.

--- page 251 ---
- 22 - 
 
 
Exterior
COVID 19
Exterior 
Exterior @
TIME
Measured
Adjusted
Future 
Setback
Interior
7:00 AM
62.6
64.1
64.9
63.8
38.8
8:00 AM
63.1
64.6
65.4
64.3
39.3
9:00 AM
61.8
63.3
64.1
63.0
38.0
10:00 AM
72.3
73.9
74.7
73.6
48.6
11:00 AM
63.6
65.1
65.9
64.8
39.8
12:00 PM
67.8
69.3
70.1
69.0
44.0
1:00 PM
68.4
69.9
70.7
69.6
44.6
2:00 PM
69.0
70.5
71.3
70.2
45.2
3:00 PM
69.4
70.9
71.7
70.6
45.6
4:00 PM
69.6
71.1
71.9
70.8
45.8
5:00 PM
69.3
70.8
71.6
70.5
45.5
6:00 PM
70.8
72.3
73.1
72.0
47.0
7:00 PM
72.4
73.9
74.7
73.6
48.6
8:00 PM
68.8
70.3
71.1
70.0
45.0
9:00 PM
66.2
67.7
68.5
67.4
42.4
10:00 PM
64.3
65.8
66.6
65.5
40.5
11:00 PM
60.8
62.3
63.1
62.0
37.0
12:00 AM
57.6
59.1
59.9
58.8
33.8
1:00 AM
53.4
54.9
55.7
54.6
29.6
2:00 AM
52.5
54.0
54.8
53.7
28.7
3:00 AM
54.5
56.0
56.8
55.7
30.7
4:00 AM
55.8
57.3
58.1
57.0
32.0
5:00 AM
57.1
58.6
59.4
58.3
33.3
6:00 AM
61.3
62.8
63.6
62.5
37.5
Highest and Lowest Values
TABLE II
CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures
Hourly Average Noise Levels, dBA Leq(h)

--- page 252 ---
- 23 - 
 
The interior hourly average noise levels under the worst-case future traffic 
scenario were calculated to range from 28.7 to 48.6 dBA.  Thus, the interior noise levels 
will be within the 50 dBA Leq(h) limit of the CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory 
Measures for the office spaces.  Noise mitigation measures for the office spaces will not 
be required.  
VI. 
Project-Generated Noise Impacts 
Project-generated noise from this type of mixed-use development would be 
limited to project traffic and mechanical equipment  
A. 
Project Traffic  
Project traffic volumes were provided by AECOM.  The impact of project-
generated traffic noise is calculated by comparing the existing + project traffic volume to 
the existing traffic volume using the formula: 
ΔdB = 10log10(V1/V2) where, V1 = existing + project and V2 = existing.  
El Camino Real 
The existing traffic volume for El Camino Real is 35,230 vehicles ADT. 
The project traffic volume is 90 vehicles ADT. 
The existing + project traffic volume is 35,320 vehicles ADT. 
The increase in the noise environment along El Camino Real due to the project is 
0.01 decibels, which is negligible.   
Hayward Avenue 
The existing traffic volume for Hayward Avenue is 540 vehicles ADT. 
The project traffic volume is 140 vehicles ADT. 
The existing + project traffic volume is 680 vehicles ADT.

--- page 253 ---
- 24 - 
 
The increase in the noise environment along Hayward Avenue due to the project 
is 1.0 decibels.  The increase in traffic along Hayward Avenue due to the project will be 
within the “existing +2 decibel” limit of the CEQA policies as administered by the City 
of San Mateo.  The project-generated noise impact will be Less Than Significant.  
B. 
Project Mechanical Equipment 
The planned roof-top air-conditioners have not been specified.  The project 
dwelling units will range 640 sq. ft. to 890 sq. ft.  Using a standard rule-of-thumb of 1-ton 
of cooling per 500-600 sq. ft., the roof-top AC units are likely to be 1-1/2 to 2-ton units.  
Common 1-1/2-ton and 2-ton air-conditioning condensing units or heat pumps will 
generate an A-weighted sound power level (Lwa) of up to 76 dB, such as the Ruud 
RA14**W series, the Carrier 24ACA4 series or the Bryant 284ANV series.  The 
reference sound data for the Carrier unit is provided in Appendix C.  The Roof Plan 
shows 12 air-conditioners in a straight row along the long axis of the building 16 ft. from 
the north parapet.  There will be three air-conditioners perpendicular to the north parapet 
toward the easterly end of the building.   
The most noise impacted receiver location in this analysis is a person standing on 
the third floor balcony of the residential development adjacent to the north directly across 
from the approximate center of the planned project building where there is the most 
exposure to the roof-top air-conditioners.  The residential receiver elevation (ear height) 
is 58.58 ft.   
The building roof elevation is 44.75 ft. with a parapet height of 46.75ft.  The noise 
source height is 3.4 ft. (assuming horizontally mounted fans on the AC units).   
The mechanical equipment sound levels at the receiver location were calculated 
using an attenuation rate of Lwa – 11 + 20log10(5/r), where r = distance from the air-
conditioner to the receiver.

--- page 254 ---
- 25 - 
 
A noise barrier Insertion Loss (IL) is determined by the difference in sound path 
length from the straight line distance from the source to the receiver and the sound path 
created from the source to the top of the barrier then to the receiver.  The difference is 
sound path length is designated as “d”.   
The amount of sound reduction is frequency dependent and is calculated using the 
Fresnel diffraction equation: 
Sound Reduction or Insertion Loss = 10log10(3+10(2f/c)(d)  where, f = frequency 
(octave bands are adequate for air-conditioner noise), c = speed of sound in air (1,128 
ft./sec.) and d = sound path length difference.   
Table III on page 26 provides the analysis of the roof-top mechanical equipment.  
Shown in the Table are the assumed sound power level, the distance from the center of 
air-conditioner to the parapet wall, the distance from the parapet to the most impacted 
residential receiver location, the A-weighted sound pressure level at 5 ft., the sound level 
at the residential receiver location without the barrier adjustment, the amount of sound 
reduction provided by the parapet and the final sound level at the residential receiver 
location.  The combined sound level of all air-conditioners in operation simultaneously is 
shown in the black cell.  
As shown in Table III, the project-generated noise levels will be up to 46 dBA at 
the most noise impacted residential receiver location adjacent to the project.  Thus, the 
noise levels will be within the 55 dBA limit of the City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance.  
Noise mitigation measures for project-generated mechanical equipment noise will not be 
required.

--- page 255 ---
- 26 - 
 
 
Limit = 55 dBA
Rated
Distance
Dist
Dist 
Sound Level
Sound Level
Barrier
Final 
Lwa
AC to Parapet
Parapet to Rec.
AC to Rec.
@ 5 ft.
@ Receiver
Reduction
Sound Level
1
76
27
45
72
65
42
9
33
2
76
27
41
68
65
42
9
33
3
76
25
38
63
65
43
10
33
4
76
21
34
55
65
44
10
34
5
76
24
32
56
65
44
10
34
6
76
18
30
48
65
45
10
35
7
76
17
27
44
65
46
11
36
8
76
16
26
42
65
47
11
36
9
76
16
26
42
65
47
11
36
10
76
16
27
43
65
46
11
36
11
76
17
29
46
65
46
10
35
12
76
18
30
48
65
45
10
35
13
76
17
44
61
65
43
9
34
14
76
29
40
69
65
42
8
34
15
76
37
37
74
65
42
8
33
TOTAL
46
TABLE III
Mechanical Equpment Analysis, dBA
 
C. 
Construction Phase Impacts 
Short-term noise impacts may be created during demolition of the existing 
structures on the site and construction of the project.  Demolition and construction 
equipment are typically similar, with the exception of paving equipment and pile drivers 
(impact hammers).  However, pile driving is not expected on this project.  The noise 
levels generated by the two phases will be similar over the course of entire process.  With 
the exception of pile driving, blasting, vibratory compacting or rolling, construction 
equipment expected to be used on the site generates groundborne vibration level lower 
than 0.02 in/sec. peak particle velocity (ppv) at distances greater than 13 ft.  The nearest 
structures are 10 ft. to the northeast, 130 ft. to the southeast, 131 ft. to the southwest and 
78 ft. to the northwest.  
Table 7.1 from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) construction noise and 
vibration study, Ref. (i), showing standard construction equipment noise levels at a 
distance of 50 ft. is provided on page 27.  At a distance of 25 ft., the equipment noise 
levels presented in the Table are increased by 6 decibels, to range from 82 to 107 dBA.  
From the information provided in the Table, items of equipment shown to produce a 
noise level of 84 dBA or higher would be restricted from use on the site.  Much of the 
equipment necessary to construct a residential building exceed the 90 dBA @ 25 ft. limit 
of the City of San Mateo Noise Ordinance.

--- page 256 ---
- 27 - 
 
Table 7-1 Construction Equipment Noise Emission Levels * 
 
Equipment 
Typical Noise Level 50 ft. 
from Source, dBA 
Air Compressor 
80 
Backhoe 
80 
Ballast Equalizer 
82 
Ballast Tamper 
83 
Compactor 
82 
Concrete Mixer 
85 
Concrete Pump 
82 
Concrete Vibrator 
76 
Crane, Derrick 
88 
Crane, Mobile 
83 
Dozer 
85 
Generator 
82 
Grader 
85 
Impact Wrench 
85 
Jack Hammer 
88 
Loader 
80 
Paver 
85 
Pile-driver (Impact) 
101 
Pile-driver (Sonic) 
95 
Pneumatic Tool 
85 
Pump 
77 
Rail Saw 
90 
Rock Drill 
95 
Roller 
85 
Saw 
76 
Scarifier 
83 
Scraper 
85 
Shovel 
82 
Spike Driver 
77 
Tie Cutter 
84 
Tie Handler 
80 
Tie Inserter 
85 
Truck 
84 
**This Table is copied from the FTA Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment 
Manual, pg. 176.

--- page 257 ---
- 28 - 
 
Tables IV-A and IV-B on page 29 provide a list of construction equipment with 
their sound levels at a reference distance of 50 ft., their sound levels at a distance of 25 ft. 
and the distance at which the equipment reaches 90 dBA.  Also shown are the maximum, 
hourly average and average DNL noise levels.  The noise limit of the City of San Mateo 
Noise Ordinance will be exceeded at distances closer that those shown in the shaded 
column for that particular item of equipment, activity or operation.   
Due to the close proximity of the site with construction operations as close as 13 
ft. from the residential building to the northeast, which is 131 ft. from the centerline of El 
Camino Real, the noise exposure due to construction of the project is likely to add 1 
decibel to the existing noise environment at the adjacent residential building.   
The existing noise exposure at the residential building to the northeast was 
calculated to the 64 dB DNL.  With the expected construction noise exposure of up to 58 
dB DNL, the combined noise exposure could be up to 65 dB DNL.   
The noise exposure due to construction activity could result in a Significant Noise 
Impact.  Thus, noise control measures to reduce the construction noise exposure to no 
more than 54 dB DNL where it would no longer add to the existing noise environment, 
are recommended.  The recommended measures are described in Section VII of this 
report.

--- page 258 ---
- 29 - 
 
Reference
Sound Level
Distance at 
40% usage
Near Dist. = 1 ft.
Far Dist. = 76 ft.
Near Dist. = 100 ft.
Far Dist. = 305 ft.
Equipment
Level
Dist., ft.
25 ft.
90 dBA
Leq(h) @ 25 ft.
Paving Machine
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Water Truck
84
50
90
50
72
118
80
60
51
Compactive Rollers
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Scrapers
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Graders
83
50
89
45
71
117
79
59
50
Wheel Loader
80
50
86
32
68
114
76
56
47
Track Loader
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Backhoe
80
50
86
32
68
114
76
56
47
Bulldozer
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Haul Trucks
84
50
90
50
72
118
80
60
51
Crane
83
50
89
45
71
117
79
59
50
Excavator
85
50
91
56
73
119
81
61
52
Skid Steer
78
50
74
8
56
102
64
44
35
Air Compressor
80
50
86
32
68
114
76
56
47
Generator
82
50
88
40
70
116
78
58
49
Jackhammer
88
50
94
76
76
122
84
64
54
Air Tools
78
85
89
43
71
117
79
59
49
Pumps
77
50
83
22
65
111
73
53
44
Nail Gun
81
50
87
35
69
115
77
57
48
DNL
58
DNL
45
Reference
Sound Level
Distance at 
40% usage
Near Dist. = 1 ft.
Far Dist. = 205 ft.
Near Dist. = 97 ft.
Far Dist. = 170 ft.
Equipment
Level
Dist., ft.
25 ft.
90 dBA
Leq(h) @ 25 ft.
Paving Machine
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Water Truck
84
50
90
50
72
118
72
60
56
Compactive Rollers
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Scrapers
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Graders
83
50
89
45
71
117
71
59
55
Wheel Loader
80
50
86
32
68
114
68
56
52
Track Loader
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Backhoe
80
50
86
32
68
114
68
56
52
Bulldozer
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Haul Trucks
84
50
90
50
72
118
72
60
56
Crane
83
50
89
45
71
117
71
59
55
Excavator
85
50
91
56
73
119
73
61
57
Skid Steer
78
50
74
8
56
102
56
44
40
Air Compressor
80
50
86
32
68
114
68
56
52
Generator
82
50
88
40
70
116
70
58
54
Jackhammer
88
50
94
76
76
122
75
64
59
Air Tools
78
85
89
43
71
117
70
59
54
Pumps
77
50
83
22
65
111
65
53
49
Nail Gun
81
50
87
35
69
115
69
57
53
DNL
50
DNL
50
Commercial  PL Northwest
Sound Level Range
School PL Southwest
Sound Level Range
TABLE IV-B
Residential PL Northeast
Residential PL Southeast
Sound Level Range
Sound Level Range
Project-Generated Construction Noise Levels, dBA
TABLE IV-A
Project-Generated Construction Noise Levels, dBA

--- page 259 ---
- 30 - 
Table V, below, provides the noise levels and noise exposures at the most 
impacted adjacent land uses under a worst-case scenario if equipment operates right up to 
the property lines.   
 
TABLE V 
Construction Noise Levels 
Location 
Lmax 
Leq 
DNL 
Northeast Residential 
64-119 dBA 
52-72 dBA 
41-61 dB 
Southeast Residential 
35-61 dBA 
39-49 dBA 
28-48 dB 
Northwest Commercial 
56-119 dBA 
47-64 dBA 
36-53 dB 
Southwest School 
40-61 dBA 
44-64 dBA 
33-53 dB 
The construction noise levels will exceed the limits of the City of San Mateo 
Noise Ordinance limit for equipment noise levels.  
Demolition and construction activities can produce varying amounts of ground-
borne vibration, which depend on the type of equipment used and various methods.  
Vibration is produced by the equipment operation and the vibrational waves travel 
through the ground/soil that diminishes over distance.  It is rare that construction 
vibration is intense enough to cause damage to existing structures.  However, due to the 
close proximity of the neighbors to the northeast, a quantitative analysis of vibration is 
warranted.   
Ground-borne vibration is typically reported in terms of “peak particle velocity” 
or PPV, and sometimes reported in terms of decibels of vibration, notated as VdB, which 
is a level of vibration (Lv).  The use of PPV is more common for construction equipment 
and methods.  
Table VI on the following page provides building damage criteria from 
construction vibration established by the Federal Transit Administration, Ref. (f).

--- page 260 ---
- 31 - 
 
 
TABLE VI 
Construction Vibration Damage Criteria 
Building Category 
PPV (in/sec) 
Approx. Lv (VdB) 
I. Reinforced-concrete, steel or timber (no plaster) 
0.50 
102 
II. Engineered concrete and masonry (no plaster) 
0.30 
98 
III. Non-engineered timber and masonry buildings 
0.20 
94 
IV. Buildings extremely susceptible to vibration 
damage 
0.12 
90 
** RMS velocity in decibels (VdB) re: 1 micro-inch/second 
The adjacent residential building to the northeast is a large, 3-story wood framed 
structure over a concrete podium with a parking garage below.  This building is 10 ft. 
from the site property line.   
The building across Hayward Avenue is similar to the building adjacent to the 
northeast except it has four floors of residential spaces.  This building is located 130 ft. 
from the site property line.   
The commercial building to the northwest is stucco sided building most likely 
metal frame and is 78 ft. from the site property line.   
The buildings across El Camino Real are older, stucco/plaster sided structures.  
The nearest building is 131 ft. from the site property line.   
These structures to the northwest and southwest fall into Building Category III 
where the vibration limit is 0.20 in/sec PPV.  The buildings to the northeast and southeast 
fall under Category 1 where the vibration limit is 0.5 in./sec. PPV.  There are no buildings 
adjacent to or near the site that would fall under Categories II or IV.

--- page 261 ---
- 32 - 
 
The contractors used for the demolition of the site and construction of the project 
have not yet been selected, nor has a construction schedule and list of equipment been 
developed.  Table VII on page 33 provides a list of typical construction equipment, some 
of which will likely not be used on this project, such as pile driving, their vibration levels 
at 25 ft., and the vibration levels at the building setback of the closest residence or 
commercial use to the northeast, southeast, southwest and northwest.  Also shown are the 
distances each item of equipment must stay away from the respective adjacent structures 
to limit the vibration levels to no more than 0.20 in/sec. at the vibration sensitive 
buildings and to no more than 0.50 in./sec. at the large residential buildings..   
As shown in Table VII, the equipment expected to be used on this project could 
generate ground-borne vibration levels in excess of the 0.20 in/sec criterion, as shown by 
the RED text.  This is a potentially significant temporary impact.  
Noise and vibration mitigation measures are recommended to minimize potential 
noise and vibration impacts from construction associated with the project.

--- page 262 ---
- 33 - 
 
Dist. to Res. To Northeast, ft.
13
Dist to Res. To Southeast, ft.
130
Dist. to School To Southwest, ft.
131
Dist to Comm. to Northwest, ft.
78
Reference 
Vibration Level
Vibration Level
Vibration Level
Vibration Level
EQUIPMENT
Vibration at d, ft.
Dist for 
Dist for 
@ Residence to
@ Residence to
@ School to
@ Commercial to
d =
25
0.50 PPV limit
0.20 PPV limit
Northeast (0.50 PPV)
Southeast (0.50 PPV)
Southwest (0.20 PPV)
Northwest (0.20 PPV)
Excavator
0.089
8
15
0.24
0.01
0.01
0.02
Vibratory Roller
0.210
14
26
0.56
0.02
0.02
0.04
Hoe Ram
0.089
8
15
0.24
0.01
0.01
0.02
Large Bulldozer
0.089
8
15
0.24
0.01
0.01
0.02
Loaded Trucks
0.076
7
13
0.20
0.01
0.01
0.01
Jackhammer
0.035
4
8
0.09
0.00
0.00
0.01
Small Bulldozer
0.003
1
2
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.00
Backhoe
0.088
8
14
0.23
0.01
0.01
0.02
Compactor
0.240
15
28
0.64
0.02
0.02
0.04
concrete Mixer
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Concrete Pump
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Crane
0.008
2
3
0.02
0.00
0.00
0.00
Dump Truck
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Front End Loader
0.088
8
14
0.23
0.01
0.01
0.02
Grader
0.088
8
14
0.23
0.01
0.01
0.02
Hydra Break Ram*
0.040
5
9
0.11
0.00
0.00
0.01
Soil Sampling Rig
0.088
8
14
0.23
0.01
0.01
0.02
Paver
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Pickup Truck
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Slurry Trenching
0.016
3
5
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
Tractor
0.080
7
14
0.21
0.01
0.01
0.01
Vibratory Roller (lge)
0.477
24
45
1.27
0.04
0.04
0.09
Vibratory Roller (sm)
0.176
12
23
0.47
0.01
0.01
0.03
Clam Shovel*
0.208
14
26
0.55
0.02
0.02
0.04
Rock Drill
0.088
8
14
0.23
0.01
0.01
0.02
* Transient vibration levels
TABLE VII
Construction Equipment Vibration Levels, in/sec PPV

--- page 263 ---
- 34 - 
VII. 
Mitigation Measures 
A. 
Traffic Noise Impacts to the Project - Interior 
To achieve compliance with the 45 dB DNL limits of the City of San Mateo Noise 
Element and Title 24, the following window controls will be required.  In addition, 
general building shell controls are also recommended, as described in Appendix B.  
 Maintained closed at all times all windows and glass doors of 
living spaces with a direct or side view of El Camino Real 
(southeast, southwest and northwest facades).  At living spaces 
within 72 ft. of the centerline, install windows and glass doors 
rated minimum Sound Transmission Class (STC) 35.  At living 
spaces between 72 ft. and 118 ft. of the centerline, install windows 
and glass doors rated minimum STC 31.  These window sound 
rating apply to all floor elevations.  Provide some type of 
mechanical ventilation for these spaces.  All other windows and 
glass doors of the project may have any type of glass and do not 
need to be sound-rated.  
Please see Figure 3 for the locations of the recommended noise control windows 
and glass doors. 
When windows and glass doors are maintained closed at all times for noise 
control, some type of mechanical ventilation must be provided.  The mechanical 
ventilation system shall conform to the requirements of the California Mechanical Code, 
as described in Appendix C, and shall not compromise the acoustical integrity of the 
building shell.

--- page 264 ---
-35-

Wv'1d WOO TANT] ONOOSS a Sr
cos ©

St01S om

JEPLUNS Bue SJOOY YNOY
pur pulyy BY, “SuoOp
ssei6 pue smopum

au) Jo sBuges (91) |

SSE/D uossiwsuey Sy}

punog LwNwIUNLU pue *
smopuim pasojs Buumnbe
saoeds Burn popedu
SSIOU AY} JO SUDO]

€ 3yNndIs

‘
‘
| |

|

2 ——E—_—
‘



--- page 265 ---
- 36 - 
 
The windows and glass doors specified above to be maintained closed shall be 
operable as the requirement does not imply a fixed or inoperable condition.  All other 
windows of the development may be kept open as desired with the exception of 
bathrooms that are an integral part of a living space and not separated by a closeable door, 
such as those common in master bedroom suites.   
In addition, the windows and doors shall be installed in an acoustically-effective 
manner.  To achieve an acoustically-effective window and door construction, the operable 
window panels must form an air-tight seal when in the closed position and the window 
frames must be caulked to the wall opening around their entire perimeter with a non-
hardening caulking compound to prevent sound infiltration.  Do not use expandable foam 
products.  
Please be aware that many dual-pane and triple-pane window assemblies have 
inherent noise reduction problems in the traffic noise frequency spectrum due to 
resonance that occurs within the air space between the window lites, and the noise 
reduction capabilities vary from manufacturer to manufacturer.  Therefore, the acoustical 
test report of all sound rated windows should be reviewed by a qualified acoustician to 
ensure that the chosen windows will adequately reduce traffic noise to acceptable levels. 
The implementation of the above recommended measures will reduce interior 
noise exposures to 45 dB DNL or lower. 
B. 
Construction Phase Noise and Vibration Impacts 
Reduction of the demolition/construction phase noise at the site can be 
accomplished by using quiet or "new technology" equipment.  The greatest potential for 
noise abatement of current equipment should be the quieting of exhaust noises by use of 
improved mufflers.  It is recommended that all internal combustion engines used at the 
project site be equipped with a type of muffler recommended by the vehicle 
manufacturer.  In addition, all equipment should be in good mechanical condition so as to 
minimize noise created by faulty or poorly maintained engine, drive-train and other 
components.  Demolition and construction noise can also be mitigated by the following:

--- page 266 ---
- 37 - 
 
OPERATIONAL AND SITUATIONAL CONTROLS  
 All work on site should be restricted to 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM 
Weekdays, 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM Saturdays and 12:00 PM to 4:00 
PM Sundays and Holidays, per the requirements of the City of San 
Mateo Noise Ordinance. 
 All construction noise control measures currently imposed on the 
project, if any, shall be maintained unless the measures outlined 
herein are more restrictive.   
 Minimize material movement along the north side of the site.  
 Locate stockpiles adjacent to neighbors as much as possible to help 
shield people from on-site noise generation.  
 Music shall not be audible off site.  
 Dirt berming and stockpiling materials whenever possible can also 
help reduce noise to sensitive receptor locations.   
 Keep mobile equipment (haul trucks, concrete trucks, etc.) off of 
local streets near residences as much as possible.   
 Keep vehicle paths graded smooth as rough roads and paths can 
cause significant noise and vibration from trucks (particularly 
empty trucks) rolling over rough surfaces.  Loud bangs and ground-
borne vibration can occur.   
INTERIOR WORK 
 For interior work, the windows of the interior spaces facing 
neighbors where work is being performed should be kept closed 
while work is proceeding.

--- page 267 ---
- 38 - 
 
 Noise generating equipment indoors should be located within the 
building to utilize building elements as noise screens.  
EQUIPMENT 
 
Earth Removal:  Use scrapers as much as possible for earth 
removal, rather than the noisier loaders and hauling trucks. 
 
Backfilling:  Use a backhoe for backfilling, as it is less costly and 
quieter than either dozers or loaders. 
 
Ground Preparation:  Use a motor grader rather than a bulldozer 
for final grading.  Wheeled heavy equipment is less noisy than 
track equipment.  Utilize wheeled equipment rather than track 
equipment whenever possible, with the exception of work within 
the vibration distances shown in Table V.  The soil conditions at 
the site indicate that wheeled equipment may generate higher levels 
of ground vibration than tracked equipment.  Small, rubber tracked 
equipment, such as skid steers, would produce the lowest levels of 
noise and vibration  
 
Building Construction:  Nail guns should be used where possible 
as they are less noisy than manual hammering. 
 
Generators and Compressors:  Use generators, compressors and 
pumps that are housed in acoustical enclosures rather than weather 
enclosures or none at all.   
 
Utilize temporary power service from the utility company in lieu of 
generators wherever possible.  
 
All stationary equipment shall be rated no higher than 90 dBA @ 
25 ft. under the equipment’s most noisy condition.

--- page 268 ---
- 39 - 
 
 
Circular saws, miter/chop saws and radial arm saws shall be used 
no closer than 50 ft. from any residential property line unless the 
saw is screened from view by any and all residences using an air-
tight screen material of at least 2.0 lbs./sq. ft. surface weight, such 
as ¾” plywood.  
 
Use electrically powered tools rather than pneumatic tools 
whenever possible.  
 
Mitigation of the construction phase noise at the site can be 
accomplished by using quiet or "new technology" equipment.   
 
The greatest potential for noise abatement of current equipment 
should be the quieting of exhaust noises by use of improved 
mufflers.   
 
It is recommended that all internal combustion engines used at the 
project site be equipped with a type of muffler recommended by 
the vehicle manufacturer.   
 
All equipment shall be in good mechanical condition so as to 
minimize noise created by faulty or poorly maintained engines, 
drive-trains and other components.  Worn, loose or unbalanced 
parts or components shall be maintained or replaced to minimize 
noise and vibration.  
 
Utilize wheeled equipment rather than tracked equipment 
whenever possible.  
 
Use the lowest vibration inducing equipment when within the 
distance limits shown in Table VII.  Small grading and earth 
moving equipment, such as “Bobcat” size equipment should be 
used.

--- page 269 ---
- 40 - 
 
NOISE COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT 
 Designate a noise complaint officer.  The officer should be 
available at all times during construction hours via both telephone 
and email.  Signs should be posted at site entries.  A sample is 
shown below. 
  
 
 Notify, in writing, all residential and noise sensitive commercial 
neighbors within 300 ft. of the site of construction.  The 
notification shall contain the name, phone number and email 
address of the noise complaint officer.  A flyer may be placed at 
the doors of the residences. 
 A log of all complaints shall be maintained.  The logs shall contain 
the name and address of the complainant, the date and time of the 
complaint, the nature/description of the noise source, a description 
of the remediation attempt or the reason remediation could not be 
attempted.  
NOISE COMPLAINTS 
 
FOR CONCERNS REGARDING CONSTRUCTION NOISE PLEASE CONTACT: 
 
“CONSTRUCTION OFFICER” 
Conoff@jobsite.com  
OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT ENGINEER 
 CALL CENTER: (111) 111-1111

--- page 270 ---
- 41 - 
 
VIII. Conclusions 
In conclusion, traffic noise impacts to the project will exceed the 45 dB DNL interior 
noise standard of the City of San Mateo Noise Element and Title 24.  Noise reduction 
measures for these interior spaces will be required.  There are no common exterior areas 
associated with the development that would be regulated by the City of San Mateo Noise 
Element.  The noise levels in the office spaces of the projects will be within the limits of 
the CalGreen Non-Residential Mandatory Measures.  Construction of the project may 
generate temporary noise and vibration impacts to nearby neighbors.  Construction noise 
and vibration reduction measures are provided in this study to minimize the temporary 
impacts.  Project-generated traffic and mechanical equipment noise impacts will be less 
than significant. 
This report presents the results of a noise assessment study for the planned “One 
Hayward” mixed-use development along El Camino Real in San Mateo.  The study 
findings for existing conditions are based on field measurements and other data and are 
correct to the best of our knowledge.  Future noise projections are based on information 
provided by the consulting traffic engineer.  However, significant deviations in the 
predicted traffic volumes, motor vehicle technology, site planning, noise regulations or 
other future changes beyond our control may produce long-range noise results different 
from our estimates. 
Report Prepared By: 
 
EDWARD L. PACK ASSOC., INC. 
 
Jeffrey K. Pack 
President

--- page 271 ---
APPENDIX A 
References 
(a) 
Preliminary Site Plan, “One Hayward”, by BKF, July 14, 2021  
(b) 
City of San Mateo General Plan “Vision 2030”, Chapter VIII, “Noise”, October 
18, 2010 
(c) 
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Volume 1, Part 2, Section 1206 “Sound 
Transmission”, Subsection 1206.4 (Allowable Interior Noise Levels), Revised 
2019 
(d) 
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Chapter 5, Section 5.507 
“Environmental Comfort”, Subsection 5.507.4.2 (Exterior Noise Transmission, 
Performance Method), Revised 2013 
 (e) 
The State of California CPRC 21000, California Environmental Quality Act, 
California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Division 6, Chapter 3, 1970  
(f) 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code, Title 7, Chapter 7.30 “Noise Regulations”, 
Section 7.30.060 (e/1,2,3), 2004 
(g) 
El Camino Real and Hayward Avenue Traffic Volumes Provided by AECOM via 
the City of San Mateo Planning Department by email to Edward L. Pack 
Associates, Inc., August 5, 2021 
(h) 
Highway Research Board, “Highway Noise – A Design Guide for Highway 
Engineers”, Report, 117, 1971 
(i) 
United States Federal Transit Administration, Transit Noise and Vibration Impact 
Assessment Manual, Federal Transit Administration, Report No. 0123, by John A. 
Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, September 2018

--- page 272 ---
B-1 
APPENDIX B 
Noise Standards, Terminology, Instrumentation 
Ventilation Requirements and General Building Shell Controls, 
1. 
Noise Standards 
City of San Mateo General Plan “Vision 2030” Noise Element Standards 
NOISE IN SAN MATEO 
A noise measurement survey was conducted in San Mateo during September 2008 to 
determine noise levels throughout the community. The results are represented as a 
contour map in Figure N-1. The noise contours show lines of equal sound level, but the 
contours are conservative since the shielding effect of buildings and local topography is 
not taken into account when creating the noise contours. Noise exposure in San Mateo 
is dominated by traffic and the Southern Pacific (SPRR)/Caltrain rail line. Aircraft 
activity associated with San Francisco International Airport does not significantly affect 
noise levels in San Mateo, although some neighborhoods in the northeastern portion of 
the City are impacted by the airport approach path. Localized noise sources include 
the San Mateo County Fairgrounds (when events are being held). Generally, noise 
created by manufacturing uses does not have a major impact on the community, 
although occasional complaints are received from neighbors immediately adjacent to 
the manufacturing sites. 
 
The noise contour map is used to determine the suitability of land uses for different 
types of development, depending upon the extent of noise exposure in the area. The 
City of San Mateo has developed a list of “noise-sensitive” uses (see Tables N-1 and N-
2), which include residential dwellings, schools, hospitals, hotels, and outdoor 
recreation areas. These uses should ideally be located in areas not exceeding 60 dB 
(Ldn) and 65 dB (Leq) for outdoor recreational uses, but this is not reasonable in San 
Mateo where existing noise levels exceed 60 dB (Ldn) in all but a few of the western 
portions of the City (see Figure N-1). “Noise-sensitive” land uses could be located in 
areas having noise levels between 60 and 70 dB (Ldn) if noise mitigating construction 
measures are used to reduce interior sound levels to 45 dB (Ldn) or below as required by 
the State Building Code for multi-family dwellings, and extended by the City of San 
Mateo to new single-family dwellings. Exterior sound levels for new multi-family 
common open space should be reduced to below 67 dB (Ldn). For parks or playgrounds, 
the exterior sound level should be reduced to 65 dB (Leq) during the noisiest hour; this 
can be accomplished by locating these spaces away from noise sources or buffering 
them by the placement of buildings between the noise source and the open space.

--- page 273 ---
B-2 
 
The areas of greatest noise impact in San Mateo, where 70 dB (Ldn) is exceeded and are 
therefore unsuitable for the location of new “noise-sensitive” uses, are in the residential 
neighborhoods adjacent to the Bayshore Freeway (US 101) and the SPRR/Caltrain rail 
corridor (see Figure N- 1). Narrow portions adjacent to SR 92 and El Camino Real (SR 
82) also exceed the City's guidelines. The projected cumulative noise increases in the 
year 2030 are shown in Figure N-2, and are very similar to existing conditions, with 
noise increases generally due to traffic increases. 
 
MITIGATING NOISE IMPACTS 
Noise mitigation measures fall into two general categories: physical mitigation and 
administrative regulation. Physical mitigation involves reducing the noise level, ideally at 
the source, through methods such as enclosing a noisy piece of equipment with a barrier 
or by substituting quieter machinery. Reduction in the overall community sound level can 
also occur by limiting noise exposure of receivers to roadways and railways. This can be 
accomplished by installing sound walls, using sound-absorbing building materials, and 
through careful site planning (e.g., orienting buildings away from the noise source and 
eliminating narrow corridors open to the noise source). The walls and windows of a 
building typically reduce noise by approximately 20 dB. Noise barriers, such as sound 
walls and earthen berms provide varying reductions of noise, depending on their height 
and size. A solid wall that just breaks the line-of- sight between the noise source and 
receiver attenuates noise by 5 dB. 
 
If noise cannot be reduced at the source as described above, the distance between the 
source and the receiver can be increased to attenuate the noise. A doubling of the 
distance from a fixed noise source (e.g., an air conditioning unit, train engine, or 
whistle) results in a 6 dB decrease in noise level; a doubling of distance from a linear 
source (e.g., a highway or roadway) results in a 3 dB decrease. Vegetation does little to 
reduce noise – a densely planted strip 50 feet wide is needed to reduce noise by 5 dB. 
 
Administrative regulation reduces noise generation by limiting the operating hours or 
duration of the noise source, regulating locations where a noisy activity may occur, or 
enforcing State standards that limit noise emissions, such as automobile and boat 
muffler requirements.

--- page 274 ---
B-3 
TABLE N-1 
NOISE SENSITIVE LAND-USE COMPATIBILITY GUIDELINES FOR 
COMMUNITY NOISE ENVIRONMENTS1 
Land-Use Category 
Normally 
Acceptable2 
Conditionally 
Acceptable3 
Normally 
Unacceptable4 
Single-Family Residential 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Multi-Family Residential 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Hotels, Motels, and Other 
Lodging Houses 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Long-Term Care Facilities 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Hospitals 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Schools 
50 to 59 
60 to 70 
Greater than 70 
Multi-Family Common Open 
Space Intended for the Use and 
Enjoyment of Residents 
50 to 67 
-- 
Greater than 67 
TABLE N-2 
NOISE GUIDELINES FOR OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES 
Average Sound Level (Leq), Decibels 
Land Use Category 
Normally 
Acceptable2 
Conditionally 
Acceptable3 
Normally 
Unacceptable4 
Parks, Playgrounds 
50 to 65* 
-- 
Greater than 65* 
 
1 These guidelines are derived from the California Department of Health Services, Guidelines for the 
Preparation and Content of the Noise Element of the General Plan, 2003. The State Guidelines have been 
modified to reflect San Mateo's preference for distinct noise compatibility categories and to better reflect 
local land-use and noise conditions. It is intended that these guidelines be utilized to evaluate the 
suitability of land-use changes only and not to determine cumulative noise impacts. Land uses other than 
those classified as being “noise sensitive” are exempt from these compatibility guidelines. 
2 Normally Acceptable – Specified land use is satisfactory, based upon the assumption that any 
buildings involved are of normal conventional construction, without any special noise insulation 
requirements. 
3 Conditionally Acceptable – New construction should be undertaken only after a detailed analysis 
of the noise reduction requirement is conducted and needed noise insulation features included in 
the design. 
4 Normally Unacceptable – New construction should be discouraged. If new construction or 
development does proceed, a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements must be made and 
needed noise insulation features included in the design. 
* Average Sound Level (Leq) for peak hour.

--- page 275 ---
B-4 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
 
GOAL 1: Protect “noise sensitive” land uses from excessive noise levels. 
POLICIES: 
N 1.1: Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and 
interior noise insulation for all “noise sensitive” land uses listed in Table N-
1 that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) or above, as shown on 
Figure N-1. The maximum interior noise level shall not exceed 45 dB (Ldn) 
in any habitable rooms. 
 
N 1.2: Exterior Noise Level Standard. Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, 
play areas, and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and 
the enjoyment of residents) that have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (Ldn) 
or above, as shown on Figure N-1. Require an acoustical analysis that uses 
peak hour Leq for new parks and play areas. Require a feasibility analysis of 
noise reduction measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate 
necessary mitigation measures into residential project design to minimize 
common open space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise should not 
exceed 67 dB (Ldn) for residential uses and should not exceed 65 dB (Leq) 
during the noisiest hour for public park uses. 
 
Implementation of N 1.1 and N1.2: Interior and Exterior Noise Level Standards. 
 
As part of the development review process, an acoustical analysis is 
required for all new project types listed on Tables N-1 and N-2 when the 
site noise levels exceed the noise level standards established in the General 
Plan. Mitigation measures to reduce both exterior and interior noise to 
acceptable levels are required as part of the analysis, and are incorporated 
into the conditions of project approval. 
 
Lead: Planning Division reviews General Plan and consults with Building 
Division on scope of analysis. Building Division approves content of final 
report and administers conditions of project approval. (Ongoing) 
 
Most of San Mateo has existing noise levels that exceed the normally acceptable levels 
for “noise-sensitive” uses. Since the majority of the City is within the “conditionally 
acceptable” range of between 60 dB and 70 dB (Ldn), some form of noise mitigation will 
have to be incorporated into building and site design for new “noise-sensitive” land uses. 
While the State currently requires that multi-family dwellings in areas exceeding 60 dB 
(Ldn) incorporate mitigation measures to achieve an interior sound level of 45 dB (Ldn), 
the City of San Mateo will attenuation can be accomplished with sound-rated double-
pane windows.

--- page 276 ---
B-5 
A few of San Mateo's residential neighborhoods that border highways, El Camino Real 
(SR 82), and the railway line are subject to sound levels exceeding 70 dB (Ldn), which is 
in the “normally unacceptable” range for “noise-sensitive” uses. Rather than precluding 
new residential development in these areas, the City will require that building 
construction techniques be utilized that reduce interior sound to 45 dB (Ldn) or less. 
 
Also of concern are outdoor recreation areas in new parks and schools. The City will 
require a feasibility study to determine whether measures to reduce exterior sound 
levels, such as sound walls, sheltering open space areas from noise sources by building 
walls, and placement of active use areas away from noise sources are feasible. Particular 
attention should be paid to the design of sound barriers so they are visually pleasing; 
this can often be accomplished through extensive landscape screening. 
 
GOAL 2: Minimize unnecessary, annoying, or unhealthful noise. 
POLICIES: 
Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City's 
existing noise control ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or 
injurious to neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a public 
nuisance, and b) restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
 
Implementation of N 2.1: Noise Ordinance. 
 
Noise nuisances, as defined in the City's Municipal Code, are abated 
through a standardized enforcement process, which includes referral to the 
Housing and Advisory Appeals Board. This includes noise generated by 
building construction and equipment at unauthorized times. 
Lead: Code Enforcement Division. (Ongoing) 
 
Enforcement of a noise control ordinance can reduce nuisance noise generated by 
commercial uses or from residential sources such as amplified music, parties, leaf 
blowers, or barking dogs. Construction activities also generate substantial short-term 
noise impacts, which can be limited to specified hours and days of the week. 
 
N 2.2: Minimize Noise Impact. Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables 
N-1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by 
new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into 
development design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure 
increases of 3 dB (Ldn) or greater at the common property line, or new uses 
which generate noise levels of 60 dB (Ldn) or greater at the property line, 
excluding existing ambient noise levels.

--- page 277 ---
B-6 
“Noise-sensitive” land uses, such as residential neighborhoods, hotels, hospitals, 
schools, and outdoor recreation areas must be protected from new development that 
causes discernable increases in noise levels as a result of on-site activities. Noise 
generators such as machinery or parking lots must be mitigated through physical 
measures or operational limits. 
 
N 2.3: Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as 
“noise sensitive” in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site 
noise generated by new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation 
measures into development design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit new 
uses that generate noise levels of 65 dB (Ldn) or above at the property line, 
excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
 
Commercial and industrial areas typically tolerate higher noise levels than residential 
neighborhoods. However, some control is necessary for new development within non-
residential areas so that exceptionally noisy uses are restricted. 
 
Implementation of N 2.2 and N 2.3: Minimize Noise. 
 
Where the potential exists for noise impacts inconsistent with these policies, 
a noise report identifying noise impacts and mitigation measures is required 
as part of the development review process. Mitigation measures are then 
incorporated as conditions of the project approval. 
 
Lead: Planning Division reviews the General Plan and consults with the 
Building Division on the scope of the analysis. The Building Division 
approves the content of the final report and administers the conditions of 
project approval. (Ongoing) 
 
N 2.4: Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting 
from traffic increases, as shown on Figure N-2. Promote the installation of 
noise barriers along highways where “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in 
Table N-1 are adversely impacted by unacceptable noise levels [60 dB (Ldn) 
or above]. Require adequate noise mitigation to be incorporated into the 
widening of SR 92 and US 101. Accept noise increases on El Camino Real 
at existing development, and require new multi-family development to 
provide common open space having a maximum exterior noise level of 67 
dB (Ldn).

--- page 278 ---
B-7 
Implementation N 2.4: Traffic Noise. 
 
Sound walls have been constructed along US 101. Preliminary design work 
has not yet started on the widening of SR 92; however, the issue of sound 
walls will be addressed during both the design and environmental review 
phases of the project. Noise standards for development along El Camino 
Real are imposed on a case-by- case basis consistent with this policy's 
guidelines. New multi-family developments are required to comply with 
exterior noise standards as part of the development review process for 
consistency with the State Building Code. 
 
Lead: The Public Works Department coordinates sound wall construction 
with Caltrans. Planning and Building Divisions coordinate the review and 
application of conditions of approval for new development regarding 
compliance with this policy. (Ongoing) 
 
The City recognizes that traffic will increase during the next 20 years, and that 
mitigating traffic noise is very difficult, except in certain instances. The installation of 
sound walls along highways is supported as an effective means of reducing this major 
impact. Sound walls are not appropriate, however, in residential neighborhoods or 
along major streets due to their visual impact and the need for street access points, 
which diminishes the effectiveness of the barriers. 
 
N 2.5: Railroad Noise. Promote the installation of noise barriers along the railroad 
corridor where “noise-sensitive” land uses are adversely impacted by 
unacceptable noise levels [60 dB (Ldn) or greater]. Promote adequate noise 
mitigation to be incorporated into any rail service expansion or track 
realignment. Study the need of depressing the rail line to eliminate at-grade 
crossings or other mitigation measures to decrease noise levels prior to 
substantial expansion of the rail service. 
 
Implementation N 2.5: Railroad Noise. 
 
The Joint Powers Authority has completed a study of electrification of the 
rail lines, and has adopted a policy for its implementation. Electrification of 
the rail line, in conjunction with the elimination of at-grade crossings, would 
greatly reduce railroad noise impacts. Installation of noise barriers is 
analyzed on a project-by-project basis for development adjacent to the 
railroad. Noise impacts were also considered in the examination of 
alignment alternatives in the railroad corridor study.

--- page 279 ---
B-8 
Lead: The Public Works Department coordinates with the Joint Powers 
Authority on railroad alignment. The Planning and Building Divisions 
coordinate the review and application of conditions of approval for new 
development adjacent to the rail corridor regarding noise impacts. 
(Ongoing) 
 
Another noise source that can be mitigated is the railroad corridor. The City supports 
the installation of sound walls along the rail line. If substantial increases in rail service 
occur as projected in the Circulation Element, the need for both noise mitigation and 
grade separation of the rail line and streets will increase. To achieve both objectives, 
the City and the Joint Powers 
Authority should consider depressing the rail line, particularly in the Downtown.

--- page 280 ---
B-9 
B. 
Title 24 Noise Standards 
2019 California Building Code, Volume 1, Part 2  
SECTION 1206 – SOUND TRANSMISSION 
1206.1 Scope.  This section shall apply to common interior walls, partitions and 
floor/ceiling assemblies between adjacent dwelling units and sleeping units or between 
dwelling units and sleeping units and adjacent public areas such as halls, corridors, 
stairways or service areas.  
1206.2 Air-borne sound.  Walls, partitions and floor/ceiling assemblies separating 
dwelling units and sleeping units from each other or from public or service areas shall 
have a sound transmission class of not less than 50, or not less than 45 if field tested, for 
air-borne noise when tested in accordance to ASTM E-90.  Alternatively, the sound 
transmission class of walls, partitions and floor-ceiling assemblies shall be established by 
engineering analysis based on a comparison of walls, partitions and floor-ceiling 
assemblies having sound transmission class ratings as determined by the test procedures 
in ASTM E90.  Penetrations or openings in construction assemblies for piping; electrical 
devices; recessed cabinets; bathtubs; soffits; or heating, ventilating or exhaust ducts shall 
be sealed lined, insulated or otherwise treated to maintain the required ratings.  The 
requirement shall not apply to entrance doors; however, such doors shall be tight fitting to 
the frame and sill.   
1206.3 Structure-borne sound.  Floor/ceiling assemblies between dwelling units and 
sleeping units or between a dwelling unit or sleeping unit and a public or service area 
with the structure shall have an impact insulation class rating of not less than 50, or not 
less than 45 if field tested, when tested in accordance with ASTM E-492.  Alternatively, 
the impact insulation class of floor-ceiling assemblies shall be established by engineering 
analysis based on a comparison of floor-ceiling assemblies having impact insulation class 
ratings as determined by the test procedures in ASTM E492. 
 
Exception: Impact sound insulation is not required for floor/ceiling assemblies 
over non-habitable rooms or spaces not designed to be occupied, such as garages, 
mechanical rooms or storage areas.

--- page 281 ---
B-10 
1206.4 Allowable interior noise levels.  Interior noise levels attributable to exterior 
sources shall not exceed 45 dB in any habitable room.  The noise metric shall be either 
the day-night average sound level (Ldn) or the community noise equivalent level (CNEL), 
consistent with the noise element of the local general plan.  
1206.5 Acoustical control. [BSC-CG] See California Green Building Standards code, 
Chapter 5, Division 5.5 for additional sound transmission requirements.

--- page 282 ---
B-11 
2. 
Terminology 
A. 
Statistical Noise Levels 
Due to the fluctuating character of urban traffic noise, statistical procedures are 
needed to provide an adequate description of the environment.  A series of statistical 
descriptors have been developed which represent the noise levels exceeded a given 
percentage of the time.  These descriptors are obtained by direct readout of the sound 
measuring instruments.  Some of the statistical levels used to describe community noise 
are defined as follows: 
 
L1 
- 
A noise level exceeded for 1% of the time. 
 
L10 
- 
A noise level exceeded for 10% of the time, considered to be an  
 
 
"intrusive" level. 
 
L50 
- 
The noise level exceeded 50% of the time representing an  
 
 
"average" sound level. 
 
L90 
- 
The noise level exceeded 90 % of the time, designated as a  
 
 
"background" noise level. 
 
Leq 
- 
The continuous equivalent-energy level is that level of a steady  
 
 
noise having the same sound energy as a given time-varying noise.  
 
 
The Leq represents the decibel level of the time-averaged value of  
 
 
sound energy or sound pressure squared and is the descriptor used  
 
 
to calculate the DNL and CNEL.

--- page 283 ---
B-12 
B. 
Day-Night Level (DNL) 
Noise levels utilized in the standards are described in terms of the Day-Night 
Level (DNL).  The DNL rating is determined by the cumulative noise exposures 
occurring over a 24-hour day in terms of A-Weighted sound energy.  The 24-hour day is 
divided into two subperiods for the DNL index, i.e., the daytime period from 7:00 a.m. to 
10:00 p.m., and the nighttime period from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.  A 10 dB weighting 
factor is applied (added) to the noise levels occurring during the nighttime period to 
account for the greater sensitivity of people to noise during these hours.  The DNL is 
calculated from the measured Leq in accordance with the following mathematical formula: 
DNL  = [[(10log10(10ΣLeq(7-10))) x 15] +[((10log10(10ΣLeq(10-7)))+10) x 9]]/24 
 
C. 
A-Weighted Sound Level 
The decibel measure of the sound level utilizing the "A" weighted network of a 
sound level meter is referred to as "dBA".  The "A" weighting is the accepted standard 
weighting system used when noise is measured and recorded for the purpose of 
determining total noise levels and conducting statistical analyses of the environment so 
that the output correlates well with the response of the human ear.

--- page 284 ---
B-13 
3. 
Instrumentation 
The on-site field measurement data were acquired by the use of one or more of the 
precision acoustical instruments shown below.  The acoustical instrumentation provides a 
direct readout of the L exceedance statistical levels including the equivalent-energy level 
(Leq).  Input to the meters was provided by a microphone extended to a height of 5 ft. 
above the ground.  The meter conforms to ANSI S1.4 for Type 1 instruments.  The "A" 
weighting network and the "Fast" response setting of the meter were used in conformance 
with the applicable ISO and IEC standards.  All instrumentation was acoustically 
calibrated before and after field tests to assure accuracy. 
Bruel & Kjaer 2231 Precision Integrating Sound Level Meter 
 
Larson Davis LDL 812 Precision Integrating Sound Level Meter 
 
Larson Davis 2900 Real Time Analyzer 
Larson Davis 831 Precision Integrating Sound Level Meter 
4. 
Mechanical Ventilation Requirements 
California Mechanical Code Chapter 4- Ventilation Air 
402.3 Mechanical Ventilation 
Where natural ventilation is not permitted by this section or the building code, 
mechanical ventilation systems shall be designed, constructed, and installed to provide a 
method of supply air and exhaust air.  Mechanical ventilation systems shall include 
controls, manual or automatic, that enable the fan system to operate wherever the spaces 
served are occupied.  The system shall be designed to maintain minimum outdoor airflow 
as required by Section 403.0 under any load conditions.

--- page 285 ---
B-14 
5. 
Building Shell Controls 
The following additional precautionary measures are required to assure the 
greatest potential for exterior-to-interior noise attenuation by the recommended mitigation 
measures.  These measures apply at those units where closed windows are required: 
 
Unshielded entry doors having a direct or side orientation toward 
the primary noise source must be 1-5/8" or 1-3/4" thick, insulated 
metal or solid-core wood construction with effective weather seals 
around the full perimeter.   
 
If any penetrations in the building shell are required for vents, 
piping, conduit, etc., sound leakage around these penetrations can 
be controlled by sealing all cracks and clearance spaces with a non-
hardening caulking compound. 
 
Ventilation openings shall not compromise the acoustical integrity 
of the building shell. 
 
Spray-in or expandable foams are not acceptable for use as an 
acoustical sealant or as an insulation material for sound absorption 
within a wall or floor/ceiling cavity.

--- page 286 ---
APPENDIX C 
Noise Measurement Data, Calculation Tables and  
Air-Conditioner Data Sheets

--- page 287 ---
C-1 
 
DNL CALCULATIONS
CLIENT:
MERIDIAN INVESTMENTS
FILE:
52-022
PROJECT:
ONE HAYWARD
DATE:
8/26-27/2020
SOURCE:
EL CAMINO REAL
LOCATION 1
El Camino Real 
Dist. To Source
51 ft.
TIME
Leq
10^Leq/10
7:00 AM
62.6
1819700.9
8:00 AM
63.1
2041737.9
9:00 AM
61.8
1513561.2
10:00 AM
72.3
17100153.2
11:00 AM
63.6
2290867.7
12:00 PM
67.8
6025595.9
1:00 PM
68.4
6918309.7
2:00 PM
69.0
7943282.3
3:00 PM
69.4
8709635.9
4:00 PM
69.6
9120108.4
5:00 PM
69.3
8511380.4
6:00 PM
70.8
12022644.3
7:00 PM
72.4
17378008.3
8:00 PM
68.8
7585775.8
9:00 PM
66.2
4168693.8 SUM=
113149455.7
10:00 PM
64.3
2691534.8 Ld=
80.5
11:00 PM
60.8
1202264.4
12:00 AM
57.6
575439.9
1:00 AM
53.4
218776.2
2:00 AM
52.5
177827.9
3:00 AM
54.5
281838.3
4:00 AM
55.8
380189.4
5:00 AM
57.1
512861.4
6:00 AM
61.3
1348962.9 SUM=
7389695.2
Ln=
68.7
Daytime Level=
80.5
Nighttime Level=
78.7
DNL=
69
24-Hour Leq=
67.0

--- page 288 ---
24ACA4
Comfort™ Series 14 Air Conditioner

with Puron® Refrigerant
1-1/2 to 5 Tons (Sizes 18 To 60)

Product Data

aa

®S Comfort
Puron sERiES

wee ee eee

collection of features unmatched by any other family of
The envi i allows

you to make a responsible decision in the protection of the earth's

ozone leyer

change at any time. Always refer to the AHRI directory

(www.ahridirectoryorg) for the most up-to-date ratmgs

information.

INDUSTRY LEADING
FEATURES / BENEFITS
Efficiency

* 14SEFR/11.5- 120EER

* Miczrotube Technology™ refrigeration system
Sound

* Sound level as low a: 74 dBA

* Compressor sound blanket
Comfort

* System supports Thezmidistat™ or standard thermostat
controls

* Puron® refrigerant - environmentally sound, won't
* Front-seating service valves
* Scroll compressor
* = intemal pressure relief valve
* Internal thermal overload
© = Low pressure switch
High pressure switch
Filter drier
Durability
‘WeatherArmor™ protection package:
* Solid, Durable sheet metal construction
* «Steel louver coil guard
* Baked-on, complete outer coverage, powder paint
© = Color matched ceramic coated screws
Applications
* Long-lne - up to 250 feet (76.2 m) total equivalent
length up to 200 feet (60.96 m) condenser above

evaporator, or up to SO ft (24.38 m) evaporator above
condenser (See Longline Guide for more information.)

* Low ambient (down to -20°F/-28.9°C)) with
accessory kit
Warranty
* 10 year heated compressor warranty
© § year bmited pas waranty

C-2



--- page 289 ---
{ wire 5 applied at ambient greater than 30" Cc, consul table 310-16 of the NEC (ANS MPA TO). The ampacity of non—metallic—sheathed cable (up,
‘trace name AOME®, shail be that of 60" ¢ conditions, per the NEC (ANEYNFPA 70) Aric 336—26. ff other than uncoated jno—plated}, 60 or 75" &
Peulaten, copper wire (solid wire for 10 AGW or smaller, stranded wire for larger than 10 AGWG) is. used, consult applicable tables of the NEC (ANEYNFPA
TO.
¢ Length shown 6 as measured 1] way along wire path between unit and service panel for voRage drop not to seceed 24.
* Tims—Deiay fuse.
FLA — Fall Load Ames.
LAA — (Locked Rotor Amps.
MCA — Minima Circuk Amps
ALA — Fated Load Amps.
BOTE: Control orcut & 24—¥ on all units and requires extemal power source. Cooper wire must be weed fram sanice diconnect to unit.
All moforsicompesssors containinisemal overload protection.

24ACh4

C-3



--- page 290 ---
1 HAYWARD AVENUE 
AIR QUALITY & GREENHOUSE 
GAS ASSESSMENT 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
 
November 4, 2021  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared for: 
 
Wendy Lao, AICP 
Associate Planner 
Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Prepared by: 
 
Zachary Palm & 
Casey Divine   
 
 
429 East Cotati Avenue  
Cotati, CA 94931 
(707) 794-0400 
 
I&R Project#: 21-051

--- page 291 ---
1 
 
Introduction 
 
The purpose of this report is to address the air quality, community health risk, and greenhouse gas 
emission (GHG) impacts associated with the construction of the proposed mixed-use apartment 
development with office space located at 1 Hayward Avenue in San Mateo, California. The air 
quality impacts and GHG emissions from this project would be associated with the demolition of 
the existing uses at the site, construction of the new building and infrastructure, and operation of 
the project. Air pollutant and GHG emissions associated with construction and operation of the 
project were predicted using appropriate computer models. In addition, the potential project health 
risk impact (including construction and operation) and the impacts of existing toxic air 
contaminant (TAC) sources affecting the nearby existing and proposed sensitive receptors were 
evaluated. This analysis addresses those issues following the guidance provided by the Bay Area 
Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD).1 
 
Project Description 
 
The 0.29-acre project site is currently occupied by three buildings consisting of five dwelling units, 
with associated driveways, and a small office. The project proposes to demolish the existing 
buildings to construct a four-story mixed-use building with a below-grade parking garage 
containing 22 parking spaces. The ground floor would consist of 4,650 square feet (sf) of office 
space. Floors two through four will consist of 18 dwelling units. Construction is proposed to begin 
in October 2022 and be completed by March 2023.   
 
Project Conditions of Approval – Construction Emissions Control 
 
The project conditions of approval include features to minimize air quality impacts that may occur 
during construction. During any construction period ground disturbance, the applicant will ensure 
that the project contractor implement measures to control dust and exhaust. The contractor will 
implement the following Best Management Practices that are required of all projects: 
 
1. All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and 
unpaved access roads) will be watered two times per day. 
 
2. All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site will be covered. 
 
3. All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads will be removed using wet 
power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is 
prohibited. 
 
4. All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads will be limited to 15 miles per hour (mph). 
 
5. All roadways, driveways, and sidewalks to be paved will be completed as soon as possible. 
Building pads will be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil binders 
are used. 
 
 
1 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, CEQA Air Quality Guidelines, May 2017.

--- page 292 ---
2 
 
6. Idling times will be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use or reducing 
the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California airborne toxics control 
measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of Regulations [CCR]). Clear signage 
shall be provided for construction workers at all access points. 
 
7. All construction equipment will be maintained and properly tuned in accordance with 
manufacturer’s specifications. All equipment will be checked by a certified mechanic and 
determined to be running in proper condition prior to operation. 
 
8. Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the Lead 
Agency regarding dust complaints. This person will respond and take corrective action 
within 48 hours. The Air District’s phone number will also be visible to ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. 
 
9. All mobile construction equipment larger than 25 horsepower used at the site shall meet 
U.S. EPA Tier 4 emission standards for particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5), if feasible, 
otherwise, 
 
a. If use of Tier 4 equipment is not available, alternatively use equipment that meets 
U.S. EPA emission standards for Tier 3 engines and include particulate matter 
emissions control equivalent to CARB Level 3 verifiable diesel emission control 
devices that altogether achieve a 40 percent reduction in particulate matter exhaust 
in comparison to uncontrolled equipment; alternatively (or in combination).  
 
b. Use of electrical or non-diesel fueled equipment. 
 
The practices 1-8 above are consistent with BAAQMD-recommended basic control measures for 
reducing fugitive particulate matter that are contained in the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality 
Guidelines. These controls on construction equipment emissions are intended to reduce emissions 
of air pollutants and toxic air contaminants.  This condition is consistent with the City’s General 
Plan Policy LU 8.9 Air Quality Construction Impact and Policy LU 8.11 Toxic Air Contaminants. 
 
Project Conditions of Approval – Sensitive Receptor Exposure Control (General Plan Policy LU 
8.11 
Toxic Air Contaminants) 
 
The project conditions of approval include features to minimize air quality impacts that may occur 
during the operation of the project.  Enhanced filtration in ventilation systems for residential 
dwelling units would be required to reduce the level of harmful pollutants to below the significant 
thresholds. The significant exposure for new project receptors is judged by two effects: (1) 
increased cancer risk, and (2) annual PM2.5 concentration. Exposure to annual PM2.5 concentrations 
from El Camino Real traffic are above their respective threshold at the project site. Cancer risk is 
mostly the result of exposure to diesel particulate matter, although, gasoline vehicle exhaust 
contributes to this effect. Annual PM2.5 concentrations are based on the exposure to PM2.5 resulting 
from emissions attributable to truck and auto exhaust, the wearing of brakes and tires and re-
entrainment of roadway dust from vehicles traveling over pavement. The modeled PM2.5 exposure

--- page 293 ---
3 
 
to future residents drives the project conditions of approval. Reducing particulate matter exposure 
would reduce both annual PM2.5 exposures and cancer risk.   
 
The project shall include the following measures to minimize long-term increased cancer risk and 
annual PM2.5 exposure for new project occupants: 
  
1. Install air filtration in the residential buildings on the project site. Air filtration devices 
shall be rated MERV13 or higher. To ensure adequate health protection to sensitive 
receptors (i.e., residents), this ventilation system, whether mechanical or passive, shall 
filter all fresh air that would be circulated into the dwelling units.  
 
2. The ventilation system shall be designed to keep the building at positive pressure when 
doors and windows are closed to reduce the intrusion of unfiltered outside air into the 
building  
 
3. As part of implementing this measure, an ongoing maintenance plan for the buildings’ 
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) air filtration system shall be required.  
 
4. Ensure that the use agreement and other property documents: (1) require cleaning, 
maintenance, and monitoring of the affected buildings for air flow leaks, (2) include 
assurance that new owners or tenants are provided information on the ventilation system, 
and (3) include provisions that fees associated with owning or leasing a unit(s) in the 
building include funds for cleaning, maintenance, monitoring, and replacements of the 
filters, as needed.  
 
Effectiveness of Project Conditions of Approval  
 
A properly installed and operated ventilation system with MERV13 would achieve an 80-percent 
reduction. The overall effectiveness calculations take into account the amount of time spent 
outdoors. Assuming that the filtration system is 80-percent effective, and the individual is being 
exposed to 21 hours of indoor filtered air and three hours of outdoor unfiltered air, then the overall 
effectiveness of a MERV13 filtration system would be about 70-percent for PM2.5 exposure. For 
El Camino Real, this would reduce the maximum annual PM2.5 concentration to 0.11 μg/m3. With 
this Conditions of Approval, impacts from El Camino Real would be below their respective single- 
-source threshold. This condition is consistent with the City’s General Plan Policy LU 8.11 Toxic 
Air Contaminants. 
 
Project Conditions of Approval – City’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Checklist (General Plan 
Policy LU 8.3 GHG Emission Reductions) 
 
The City of San Mateo’s CAP Appendix 3 Consistency Checklist or other qualified GHG program 
in effect, shall be submitted along with any application for the project, demonstrating compliance 
with all mandatory requirements of the San Mateo’s CAP Appendix 3 Compliance Checklist, 
except where the item is not applicable or where a suitable substitution is provided.

--- page 294 ---
4 
 
Setting 
 
The project is located in San Mateo County, which is in the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin. 
Ambient air quality standards have been established at both the State and federal level. The Bay 
Area meets all ambient air quality standards with the exception of ground-level ozone, respirable 
particulate matter (PM10), and fine particulate matter (PM2.5).  
 
Air Pollutants of Concern 
 
High ozone levels are caused by the cumulative emissions of reactive organic gases (ROG) and 
nitrogen oxides (NOX). These precursor pollutants react under certain meteorological conditions 
to form high ozone levels. Controlling the emissions of these precursor pollutants is the focus of 
the Bay Area’s attempts to reduce ozone levels. The highest ozone levels in the Bay Area occur in 
the eastern and southern inland valleys that are downwind of air pollutant sources. High ozone 
levels aggravate respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, reduced lung function, and increase 
coughing and chest discomfort. 
 
Particulate matter is another problematic air pollutant of the Bay Area. Particulate matter is 
assessed and measured in terms of respirable particulate matter or particles that have a diameter of 
10 micrometers or less (PM10) and fine particulate matter where particles have a diameter of 2.5 
micrometers or less (PM2.5). Elevated concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 are the result of both 
region-wide (or cumulative) emissions and localized emissions. High particulate matter levels 
aggravate respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, reduce lung function, increase mortality (e.g., 
lung cancer), and result in reduced lung function growth in children. 
 
Toxic Air Contaminants 
 
Toxic air contaminants (TAC) are a broad class of compounds known to cause morbidity or 
mortality (usually because they cause cancer) and include, but are not limited to, the criteria air 
pollutants. TACs are found in ambient air, especially in urban areas, and are caused by industry, 
agriculture, fuel combustion, and commercial operations (e.g., dry cleaners). TACs are typically 
found in low concentrations, even near their source (e.g., diesel particulate matter [DPM] near a 
freeway). Because chronic exposure can result in adverse health effects, TACs are regulated at the 
regional, State, and federal level. 
 
Diesel exhaust is the predominant TAC in urban air and is estimated to represent about three-
quarters of the cancer risk from TACs (based on the Bay Area average). According to the 
California Air Resources Board (CARB), diesel exhaust is a complex mixture of gases, vapors, 
and fine particles. This complexity makes the evaluation of health effects of diesel exhaust a 
complex scientific issue. Some of the chemicals in diesel exhaust, such as benzene and 
formaldehyde, have been previously identified as TACs by the CARB, and are listed as 
carcinogens either under the State's Proposition 65 or under the Federal Hazardous Air Pollutants 
programs.

--- page 295 ---
5 
 
Sensitive Receptors 
 
There are groups of people more affected by air pollution than others. CARB has identified the 
following persons who are most likely to be affected by air pollution: children under 16, the elderly 
over 65, athletes, and people with cardiovascular and chronic respiratory diseases. These groups 
are classified as sensitive receptors. Locations that may contain a high concentration of these 
sensitive population groups include residential areas, hospitals, daycare facilities, elder care 
facilities, and elementary schools. For cancer risk assessments, children are the most sensitive 
receptors, since they are more susceptible to cancer causing TACs. Residential locations are 
assumed to include infants and small children. The closest sensitive receptors to the project site 
are in the adjacent multi-family residences to the northeast of the site. There are other sensitive 
receptors surrounding the site at further distances, including the St. Matthew Catholic Elementary 
School and the Centennial Montessori School. This project would also introduce new sensitive 
receptors (i.e., residents) to the area.  
 
Regulatory Setting 
 
Federal Regulations 
 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets nationwide emission standards 
for mobile sources, which include on-road (highway) motor vehicles such trucks, buses, and 
automobiles, and non-road (off-road) vehicles and equipment used in construction, agricultural, 
industrial, and mining activities (such as bulldozers and loaders). The EPA also sets nationwide 
fuel standards. California also has the ability to set motor vehicle emission standards and standards 
for fuel used in California, as long as they are the same or more stringent than the federal standards.  
 
In the past decade the EPA has established a number of emission standards for on- and non-road 
heavy-duty diesel engines used in trucks and other equipment. This was done in part because diesel 
engines are a significant source of NOX and particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5) and because the 
EPA has identified DPM as a probable carcinogen. Implementation of the heavy-duty diesel on-
road vehicle standards and the non-road diesel engine standards are estimated to reduce particulate 
matter and NOX emissions from diesel engines up to 95 percent in 2030 when the heavy-duty 
vehicle fleet is completely replaced with newer heavy-duty vehicles that comply with these 
emission standards.2  
 
In concert with the diesel engine emission standards, the EPA has also substantially reduced the 
amount of sulfur allowed in diesel fuels. The sulfur contained in diesel fuel is a significant 
contributor to the formation of particulate matter in diesel-fueled engine exhaust. The new 
standards reduced the amount of sulfur allowed by 97 percent for highway diesel fuel (from 500 
parts per million by weight [ppmw] to 15 ppmw), and by 99 percent for off-highway diesel fuel 
(from about 3,000 ppmw to 15 ppmw). The low sulfur highway fuel (15 ppmw sulfur), also called 
ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD), is currently required for use by all vehicles in the U.S.  
 
 
2 USEPA, 2000. Regulatory Announcement, Heavy-Duty Engine and Vehicle Standards and Highway Diesel Fuel 
Sulfur Control Requirements. EPA420-F-00-057. December.

--- page 296 ---
6 
 
All of the above federal diesel engine and diesel fuel requirements have been adopted by 
California, in some cases with modifications making the requirements more stringent or the 
implementation dates sooner. 
 
State Regulations 
 
To address the issue of diesel emissions in the state, CARB developed the Risk Reduction Plan to 
Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from Diesel-Fueled Engines and Vehicles.3 In addition to 
requiring more stringent emission standards for new on-road and off-road mobile sources and 
stationary diesel-fueled engines to reduce particulate matter emissions by 90 percent, a significant 
component of the plan involves application of emission control strategies to existing diesel 
vehicles and equipment. Many of the measures of the Diesel Risk Reduction Plan have been 
approved and adopted, including the federal on-road and non-road diesel engine emission 
standards for new engines, as well as adoption of regulations for low sulfur fuel in California.  
 
CARB has adopted and implemented a number of regulations for stationary and mobile sources to 
reduce emissions of DPM. Several of these regulatory programs affect medium and heavy-duty 
diesel trucks that represent the bulk of DPM emissions from California highways. CARB 
regulations require on-road diesel trucks to be retrofitted with particulate matter controls or 
replaced to meet 2010 or later engine standards that have much lower DPM and PM2.5 emissions. 
This regulation will substantially reduce these emissions between 2013 and 2023. While new 
trucks and buses will meet strict federal standards, this measure is intended to accelerate the rate 
at which the fleet either turns over so there are more cleaner vehicles on the road or is retrofitted 
to meet similar standards. With this regulation, older, more polluting trucks would be removed 
from the roads sooner.  
 
CARB has also adopted and implemented regulations to reduce DPM and NOX emissions from in-
use (existing) and new off-road heavy-duty diesel vehicles (e.g., loaders, tractors, bulldozers, 
backhoes, off-highway trucks, etc.). The regulations apply to diesel-powered off-road vehicles 
with engines 25 horsepower (hp) or greater. The regulations are intended to reduce particulate 
matter and NOX exhaust emissions by requiring owners to turn over their fleet (replace older 
equipment with newer equipment) or retrofit existing equipment in order to achieve specified fleet-
averaged emission rates. Implementation of this regulation, in conjunction with stringent federal 
off-road equipment engine emission limits for new vehicles, will significantly reduce emissions of 
DPM and NOX.  
 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) 
 
BAAQMD has jurisdiction over an approximately 5,600-square mile area, commonly referred to 
as the San Francisco Bay Area (Bay Area). The District’s boundary encompasses the nine San 
Francisco Bay Area counties, including Alameda County, Contra Costa County, Marin County, 
San Francisco County, San Mateo County, Santa Clara County, Napa County, southwestern 
Solano County, and southern Sonoma County.  
 
 
3 California Air Resources Board, 2000. Risk Reduction Plan to Reduce Particulate Matter Emissions from Diesel-
Fueled Engines and Vehicles. October.

--- page 297 ---
7 
 
BAAQMD is the lead agency in developing plans to address attainment and maintenance of the 
National Ambient Air Quality Standards and California Ambient Air Quality Standards. The 
District also has permit authority over most types of stationary equipment utilized for the proposed 
project. The BAAQMD is responsible for permitting and inspection of stationary sources; 
enforcement of regulations, including setting fees, levying fines, and enforcement actions; and 
ensuring that public nuisances are minimized. 
 
BAAQMD’s Community Air Risk Evaluation (CARE) program was initiated in 2004 to evaluate 
and reduce health risks associated with exposures to outdoor TACs in the Bay Area.4 The program 
examines TAC emissions from point sources, area sources, and on-road and off-road mobile 
sources with an emphasis on diesel exhaust, which is a major contributor to airborne health risk in 
California. The CARE program is an on-going program that encourages community involvement 
and input. The technical analysis portion of the CARE program is being implemented in three 
phases that includes an assessment of the sources of TAC emissions, modeling and measurement 
programs to estimate concentrations of TAC, and an assessment of exposures and health risks. 
Throughout the program, information derived from the technical analyses will be used to focus 
emission reduction measures in areas with high TAC exposures and high density of sensitive 
populations. Risk reduction activities associated with the CARE program are focused on the most 
at-risk communities in the Bay Area. Overburdened communities are areas located (i) within a 
census tract identified by the California Communities Environmental Health Screening Tool 
(CalEnviroScreen), Version 4.0 implemented by OEHHA, as having an overall CalEnviroScreen 
score at or above the 70th percentile, or (ii) within 1,000 feet of any such census tract.5 The 
BAAQMD has identified six communities as impacted: Concord, Richmond/San Pablo, Western 
Alameda County, San José, Redwood City/East Palo Alto, and Eastern San Francisco. The project 
site is not within a CARE area and not within a BAAQMD overburdened area as identified by 
CalEnviroScreen.    
 
The BAAQMD California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Air Quality Guidelines6 were 
prepared to assist in the evaluation of air quality impacts of projects and plans proposed within the 
Bay Area. The guidelines provide recommended procedures for evaluating potential air impacts 
during the environmental review process consistent with CEQA requirements including thresholds 
of significance, mitigation measures, and background air quality information. They also include 
assessment methodologies for air toxics, odors, and greenhouse gas emissions. Attachment 1 
includes detailed community risk modeling methodology. 
 
City of San Mateo Vision 2030 General Plan  
 
The Land Use Element of the City of San Mateo Vision 2030 General Plan includes goals, policies, 
and actions to reduce exposure of the City’s sensitive population to exposure of air pollution, toxic 
 
4 See BAAQMD:  https://www.baaqmd.gov/community-health/community-health-protection-program/community-
air-risk-evaluation-care-program , accessed 2/18/2021. 
5 See BAAQMD:  https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/dotgov/files/rules/reg-2-permits/2021-
amendments/documents/20210722_01_appendixd_mapsofoverburdenedcommunities-pdf.pdf?la=en , accessed 
10/1/2021. 
6 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2017. CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. May.

--- page 298 ---
8 
 
air contaminants, and GHGs. The following goals, policies, and actions are applicable to the 
proposed project: 
 
Climate Change Goals and Policies 
Goal 8a  
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions each year consistent with the Climate Action 
Plan.  
 
Policy LU 8.1 Carbon Footprint. The City shall prepare an updated greenhouse gas emissions 
inventory consistent with the Climate Action Plan. 
 
Policy LU 8.2 Effects of Climate Change. Incorporate consideration of the effects of climate 
change in development of General Plan updates, disaster planning, City projects, 
infrastructure planning, future policies and long-term strategies. Explore voluntary 
adjustments of base flood elevation. 
 
Policy LU 8.3 GHG Emission Reductions. Monitor and report progress toward the City’s GHG 
emissions reduction target on an annual basis and regularly review emission 
reduction measures and new opportunities consistent with guidance of the City’s 
Climate Action Plan. 
 
Air Quality Goals and Policies 
Policy LU 8.9 Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures: 
  
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest 
BAAQMD guidance, shall be applied to all construction activities within 
San Mateo.  
 
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance 
with applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos 
containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint 
and asbestos.  
 
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time 
of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include the 
utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the 
length of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and 
utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment 
(alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters). 
 
Policy LU 8.11 
Toxic Air Contaminants. The City shall require that when new development 
that would be a source of TACs is proposed near residences or sensitive 
receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control

--- page 299 ---
9 
 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be 
provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.  
 
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of TAC’s, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based 
on recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources 
Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall 
be provided to the source to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable 
levels. 
 
Significance Thresholds 
 
In June 2010, BAAQMD adopted thresholds of significance to assist in the review of projects 
under CEQA and these significance thresholds were contained in the District’s 2011 CEQA Air 
Quality Guidelines. These thresholds were designed to establish the level at which BAAQMD 
believed air pollution emissions would cause significant environmental impacts under CEQA. The 
thresholds were challenged through a series of court challenges and were mostly upheld. 
BAAQMD updated the CEQA Air Quality Guidelines in 2017 to include the latest significance 
thresholds, which were used in this analysis and are summarized in Table 1. Impacts above these 
thresholds are considered potentially significant.

--- page 300 ---
10 
 
Table 1. 
BAAQMD CEQA Significance Thresholds 
Criteria Air 
Pollutant 
Construction 
Thresholds 
Operational Thresholds 
Average Daily Emissions 
(lbs./day) 
Average Daily 
Emissions (lbs./day) 
Annual Average 
Emissions (tons/year) 
ROG 
54 
54 
10 
NOx 
54 
54 
10 
PM10 
82 (Exhaust) 
82 
15 
PM2.5 
54 (Exhaust) 
54 
10 
CO 
Not Applicable 
9.0 ppm (8-hour average) or 20.0 ppm (1-hour 
average) 
Fugitive Dust 
Construction Dust 
Ordinance or other Best 
Management Practices 
None 
Health Risks and 
Hazards 
Single Sources Within 
1,000-foot Zone of 
Influence 
Combined Sources (Cumulative from all 
sources within 1000-foot zone of influence) 
Excess Cancer Risk 
10 per one million 
100 per one million 
Hazard Index 
1.0 
10.0 
Incremental annual 
PM2.5 
0.3 µg/m3 
0.8 µg/m3 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Land Use Projects – 
direct and indirect 
emissions 
Compliance with a Qualified GHG Reduction Strategy  
OR 
1,100 metric tons annually or 4.6 metric tons per capita (for 2020) * 
Note:  ROG = reactive organic gases, NOx = nitrogen oxides, PM10 = course particulate matter or particulates 
with an aerodynamic diameter of 10 micrometers (µm) or less, PM2.5 = fine particulate matter or particulates 
with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5µm or less. GHG = greenhouse gases. 
*BAAQMD does not have a recommended post-2020 GHG threshold. 
Source: Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2017

--- page 301 ---
11 
 
AIR QUALITY IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES 
 
Impact AIR-1: 
Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any criteria 
pollutant for which the project region is non-attainment under an 
applicable federal or state ambient air quality standard? 
 
The Bay Area is considered a non-attainment area for ground-level O3 and PM2.5 under both the 
Federal Clean Air Act and the California Clean Air Act. The area is also considered non-attainment 
for PM10 under the California Clean Air Act, but not the federal act. The area has attained both 
State and Federal ambient air quality standards for carbon monoxide. As part of an effort to attain 
and maintain ambient air quality standards for O3, PM2.5 and PM10, the BAAQMD has established 
thresholds of significance for these air pollutants and their precursors. These thresholds are for O3 
precursor pollutants (ROG and NOx), PM10, and PM2.5 and apply to both construction period and 
operational period impacts.  
 
Construction Period Emissions 
 
The California Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) Version 2020.4.0 was used to estimate 
emissions from on-site construction activity, construction vehicle trips, and evaporative emissions. 
The project land use types and size, and anticipated construction schedule were input to 
CalEEMod. The CARB EMission FACtors 2021 (EMFAC2021) model was used to predict 
emissions from construction traffic, which includes worker travel, vendor trucks, and haul trucks.7 
The CalEEMod model output along with construction inputs are included in Attachment 2 and 
EMFAC2021 vehicle emissions modeling outputs are included in Attachment 3.  
 
Conditions Of Approval 
 
Consistent with the City’s General Plan Policy LU 8.9 Air Quality Construction Impact and Policy 
LU 8.11 Toxic Air Contaminants, measures to minimize impacts would be incorporated into 
project construction plans. Project Conditions of Approval (COAs) include measures to minimize 
dust generation and equipment exhaust that are consistent with these policies. The construction 
impact analysis includes the effects of the COA.  
 
CalEEMod Modeling 
 
Land Use Inputs 
 
The proposed project land uses were entered into CalEEMod as described in Table 2.  
 
 
 
 
7 See CARB’s EMFAC2021 Emissions Inventory at https://arb.ca.gov/emfac/emissions-inventory.

--- page 302 ---
12 
 
Table 2. 
Summary of Project Land Use Inputs 
Project Land Uses 
Size 
Units 
Square Feet (sf) 
Acreage 
Apartments Mid Rise 
18 
Dwelling Unit 
23,190 
0.29 
General Office Building 
4.65 
1000-sf 
4,650 
Enclosed Parking with Elevator 
22 
Parking Spaces 
9,510 
 
Construction Inputs 
 
CalEEMod computes annual emissions for construction that are based on the project type, size, 
and acreage. The model provides emission estimates for both on-site and off-site construction 
activities. On-site activities are primarily made up of construction equipment emissions, while off-
site activity includes worker, hauling, and vendor traffic. The construction build-out scenario, 
including equipment list and schedule, were based on default CalEEMod information for a project 
of this type and size which was then reviewed and adjusted by the applicant.  
 
The project construction equipment worksheet based on defaults but reviewed by the applicant 
included the schedule for each phase. Within each phase, the quantity of equipment to be used 
along with the average hours per day and total number of workdays was based on defaults. Since 
different equipment would have different estimates of the working days per phase, the hours per 
day for each phase was computed by dividing the total number of hours that the equipment would 
be used by the total number of days in that phase. The construction schedule assumed that the 
earliest possible start date would be October 2022 and would be built out over a period of 
approximately 6 months, or 123 construction workdays. The earliest year of full operation was 
assumed to be 2024. 
 
Construction Truck Traffic Emissions 
 
Construction would produce traffic in the form of worker trips and truck traffic. The traffic-related 
emissions are based on worker and vendor trip estimates produced by CalEEMod and haul trips 
that were computed based on the estimate of soil material imported and/or exported to the site and 
the estimate of cement and asphalt truck trips. CalEEMod provides daily estimates of worker and 
vendor trips for each applicable phase. The total trips for those were computed by multiplying the 
daily trip rate by the number of days in that phase. Haul trips for demolition and grading were 
estimated from the provided demolition and grading volumes by assuming each truck could carry 
10 tons per load. The number of concrete and asphalt total round haul trips were provided for the 
project and converted to total one-way trips, assuming two trips per delivery. 
 
The latest version of the CalEEMod model is based on the older version of the CARB 
EMFAC2017 motor vehicle emission factor model. This model has been superseded by the 
EMFAC2021 model; however, CalEEMod has not been updated to include EMFAC2021. 
Therefore, the construction traffic information was combined with EMFAC2021 motor vehicle 
emissions factors. EMFAC2021 provides aggregate emission rates in grams per mile for each 
vehicle type. The vehicle mix for this study was based on CalEEMod default assumptions, where 
worker trips are assumed to be comprised of light-duty autos (EMFAC category LDA) and light 
duty trucks (EMFAC category LDT1and LDT2). Vendor trips are comprised of delivery and large

--- page 303 ---
13 
 
trucks (EMFAC category MHDT and HHDT) and haul trips, including cement trucks, are 
comprised of large trucks (EMFAC category HHDT). Travel distances are based on CalEEMod 
default lengths, which are 10.8 miles for worker travel, 7.3 miles for vendor trips and 20 miles for 
hauling (soil import/export). Since CalEEMod does not address cement trucks, these were treated 
as vendor travel distances. Each trip was assumed to include an idle time of 5 minutes. Emissions 
associated with vehicle starts were also included. On road emissions in San Mateo County for 
2022-2023 was used in these calculations. Table 3 provides the traffic inputs that were combined 
with the EMFAC2021 emission database to compute vehicle emissions. 
 
Table 3. 
Construction Traffic Data Used for EMFAC2021 Model Runs 
CalEEMod Run/Land 
Uses and Construction 
Phase 
Trips by Trip Type 
Notes 
Total 
Worker1 
Total 
Vendor1 
Total  
Haul2 
Vehicle mix1 
62.9% LDA 
5.8% LDT1 
31.3% LDT2 
77.5% MHDT 
22.5% HHDT 
100% HHDT 
 
Trip Length (miles) 
10.8 
7.3 
20.0 
CalEEMod default 
distance with 5-min truck 
idle time. 
Demolition 
100 
- 
31 
6,754-sf  building 
demolition. CalEEMod 
default worker trips. 
Site Preparation 
5 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Grading 
16 
- 
125 
1,000-cy soil export. 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Trenching 
10 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Building Construction 
1,800 
400 
100 
50 cement round trips. 
CalEEMod default worker 
and vendor trips. 
Architectural Coating 
20 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips. 
Paving 
90 
- 
- 
CalEEMod default worker 
trips.  
Notes: 1 Based on Year 2022 - 2023 EMFAC2021 light-duty vehicle fleet mix for San Mateo County.  
2 Includes demolition and grading trips estimated by CalEEMod based on amount of material to be removed.  
 
Summary of Computed Construction Period Emissions  
 
Average daily emissions were computed by dividing the total construction emissions by the 
number of active construction workdays (123 days). Table 4 shows the average daily construction 
emissions of ROG, NOX, PM10 exhaust, and PM2.5 exhaust during construction of the project. As 
indicated in Table 4, predicted project construction emissions would not exceed the BAAQMD 
significance thresholds during construction.

--- page 304 ---
14 
 
Table 4. 
Construction Period Emissions 
Year 
ROG 
NOx 
PM10 
Exhaust 
PM2.5 
Exhaust 
Total Construction Emissions (tons) 
0.23 
0.44 
0.02 
0.02 
Average daily emissions (pounds)1 
3.81 
7.23 
0.37 
0.33 
BAAQMD Thresholds (pounds per day) 
54 lbs./day 
54 lbs./day 
82 lbs./day 
54 lbs./day 
 Exceed Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Notes: 1Assumes 123 workdays. 
 
Construction activities, particularly during site preparation and grading, would temporarily 
generate fugitive dust in the form of PM10 and PM2.5. Sources of fugitive dust would include 
disturbed soils at the construction site and trucks carrying uncovered loads of soils. Unless properly 
controlled, vehicles leaving the site would deposit mud on local streets, which could be an 
additional source of airborne dust after it dries. The BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines 
consider these impacts to be less-than-significant if best management practices are implemented 
to reduce these emissions. As part of the project conditions of approval, the project would include 
construction emissions control features that would implement BAAQMD-recommended best 
management practices. 
 
Operational Period Emissions 
 
Operational air emissions from the project would be generated primarily from autos driven by 
future residents and employees. Evaporative emissions from architectural coatings and 
maintenance products (classified as consumer products) are typical emissions from these types of 
uses. CalEEMod was used to estimate emissions from operation of the proposed project assuming 
full build-out.  
 
CalEEMod Inputs 
 
Land Uses 
 
The project land uses were input to CalEEMod as described above for the construction period 
modeling.  
 
Model Year 
 
Emissions associated with vehicle travel depend on the year of analysis because emission control 
technology requirements are phased-in over time. Therefore, the earlier the year analyzed in the 
model, the higher the emission rates utilized by CalEEMod. The earliest year of full operation 
would be 2024 if construction begins in 2022. Emissions associated with build-out later than 2024 
would be lower.  
 
Traffic Information 
 
CalEEMod allows the user to enter specific vehicle trip generation rates. Therefore, the project-

--- page 305 ---
15 
 
specific daily trip generation rate provided by the traffic consultant was entered into the model.8 
However, the daily trip generation rate provided for the residential dwelling units is the CalEEMod 
default rate for the “Apartments Mid Rise” land use type. Therefore, the only modification to the 
CalEEMod default trip generation rate was for the weekday “General Office Building” land use 
type. The project would produce 173 daily trips. The default trip types and lengths specified by 
CalEEMod were used. 
 
EMFAC2021 Adjustment  
 
The vehicle emission factors and fleet mix used in CalEEMod are based on EMFAC2017, which 
is an older CARB emission inventory for on road and off road mobile sources. Since the release 
of CalEEMod Version 2020.4.0, new emission factors have been produced by CARB. 
EMFAC2021 became available for use in January 2021. It includes the latest data on California’s 
car and truck fleets and travel activity. The CalEEMod vehicle emission factors and fleet mix were 
updated with the emission rates and fleet mix from EMFAC2021, which were adjusted with the 
CARB EMFAC off-model adjustment factors. On road emission rates from 2024 San Mateo 
County were used (See Attachment 3). More details about the updates in emissions calculation 
methodologies and data are available in the EMFAC2021 Technical Support Document.9 
 
Energy 
 
CalEEMod defaults for energy use were used, which include the 2019 Title 24 Building Standards. 
GHG emissions modeling includes those indirect emissions from electricity consumption. San 
Mateo has a reach code for mixed-use residential developments that bans natural gas from new 
construction. All Title 24 natural gas consumption was added to the Title 24 electricity intensity 
in CalEEMod because of this reach code. CalEEMod has a default emission factor of 0 pounds of 
CO2 per megawatt of electricity produced, which is based on Peninsula Clean Energy’s 2019 
emissions rate.  
 
Other Inputs 
 
Default model assumptions for emissions associated with solid waste generation use were applied 
to the project. Water/wastewater use were changed to 100% aerobic conditions to represent 
wastewater treatment plant conditions since the project site would not send wastewater to septic 
tanks or facultative lagoons. CalEEMod default inputs assume new residential construction would 
include woodburning fireplaces and stoves. The project would not include wood-burning devices, 
as these devices are prohibited by BAAQMD Regulation 6, Rule 3.10 Therefore, the number of 
woodstoves and woodburning fireplaces in CalEEMod were set to zero.   
 
Existing Uses 
 
8 AECOM 1 Hayward Ave Mixed-Use Development Transportation Impact Analysis Report, Attachment: 1 
Hayward Ave – TIA Draft #2 – 100121.pdf. 
9 See CARB 2021:  https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/mobile-source-emissions-inventory/road-
documentation/msei-modeling-tools-emfac 
10 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/dotgov/files/rules/regulation-6-
rule-3/documents/20191120_r0603_final-pdf.pdf?la=en

--- page 306 ---
16 
 
 
The existing site consists of three buildings making up five dwelling units, with associated 
driveways, and a small office. These uses produce low operational and traffic emissions which 
would not considerably offset emissions from the proposed project. Therefore, the emissions from 
the existing uses were not considered, nor used to offset proposed project conditions. 
 
Summary of Computed Operational Period Emissions 
 
Annual emissions were predicted using CalEEMod. The daily emissions were estimated assuming 
365 days of operation. Table 5 shows average daily emissions of ROG, NOX, total PM10, and total 
PM2.5 during operation of the project. The operational period emissions would not exceed the 
BAAQMD significance thresholds.  
 
Table 5. 
Operational Period Emissions 
Scenario 
ROG 
NOx 
PM10 
PM2.5 
2024 Project Operational Emissions (tons/year) 
0.21 
0.05 
0.12 
0.03 
BAAQMD Thresholds (tons /year) 
10 tons 
10 tons 
15 tons 
10 tons 
Exceed Thresholds? 
No 
No 
No 
No 
2024 Project Operational Emissions (lbs./day)1 
1.16 
0.30 
0.65 
0.17 
BAAQMD Thresholds (lbs./day) 
54 lbs. 
54 lbs. 
82 lbs. 
54 lbs. 
Exceed Threshold? 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Notes: 1 Assumes 365-day operation. 
 
Impact AIR-2: 
 Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant concentrations?  
 
Project impacts related to increased community risk can occur either by introducing a new source 
of TACs with the potential to adversely affect existing sensitive receptors in the project vicinity or 
by significantly exacerbating existing cumulative TAC impacts. This project would introduce new 
sources of TACs during construction (i.e., on-site construction and truck hauling emissions) and 
operation (i.e., mobile sources). 
 
Project construction activity would generate dust and equipment exhaust that would affect nearby 
sensitive receptors. The project would not include the installation of any emergency generators 
powered by a diesel engine but would generate some traffic consisting of mostly light-duty 
gasoline-powered vehicles, which would produce TAC and air pollutant emissions.  
 
Project impacts to existing sensitive receptors were addressed for temporary construction activities 
and long-term operational conditions. There are also several sources of existing TACs and 
localized air pollutants in the vicinity of the project. The impact of the existing sources of TAC 
was also assessed in terms of the cumulative risk which includes the project contribution, as well 
as the risk on the new sensitive receptors introduced by the project.

--- page 307 ---
17 
 
Community Risk Methodology for Construction and Operation  
 
Community risk impacts were addressed by predicting increased cancer risk, the increase in annual 
PM2.5 concentrations and computing the Hazard Index (HI) for non-cancer health risks. The risk 
impacts from the project are the combination of risks from construction and operation sources. 
These sources include on-site construction activity, construction truck hauling, and increased 
traffic from the project. To evaluate the increased cancer risks from the project, a 30-year exposure 
period was used, per BAAQMD guidance,11 with the sensitive receptors being exposed to both 
project construction and operation emissions during this timeframe.  
 
The project increased cancer risk is computed by summing the project construction cancer risk and 
operation cancer risk contributions. Unlike, the increased maximum cancer risk, the annual PM2.5 
concentration and HI values are not additive but based on the annual maximum values for the 
entirety of the project. The project maximally exposed individual (MEI) is identified as the 
sensitive receptor that is most impacted by the project’s construction and operation.  
 
The methodology for computing community risks impacts is contained in Attachment 1. This 
involved the calculation of TAC and PM2.5 emissions, dispersion modeling of these emissions, and 
computations of cancer risk and non-cancer health effects. 
  
Modeled Sensitive Receptors 
  
Receptors for this assessment included locations where sensitive populations would be present for 
extended periods of time (i.e., chronic exposures). This includes the existing residences to the 
south and east of the site and other existing residences at further distances, as shown in Figure 1. 
Residential receptors are assumed to include all receptor groups (i.e., third trimester, infants, 
children, and adults) with almost continuous exposure to project emissions.  
 
Community Health Risk from Project Construction  
 
Construction equipment and associated heavy-duty truck traffic generates diesel exhaust, which is 
a known TAC. These exhaust air pollutant emissions would not be considered to contribute 
substantially to existing or projected air quality violations. Construction exhaust emissions may 
still pose health risks for sensitive receptors such as surrounding residents (see Impact AIR-2). The 
primary community risk impact issue associated with construction emissions are cancer risk and 
exposure to PM2.5. Diesel exhaust poses both a potential health and nuisance impact to nearby 
receptors. A health risk assessment of the project construction activities was conducted that 
evaluated potential health effects to nearby sensitive receptors from construction emissions of 
DPM and PM2.5.12 This assessment included dispersion modeling to predict the offsite and onsite 
concentrations resulting from project construction, so that lifetime cancer risks and non-cancer 
health effects could be evaluated. 
 
 
 
 
11 BAAQMD, 2016. BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program Health Risk Assessment (HRA) Guidelines. December 
2016. 
12 DPM is identified by California as a toxic air contaminant due to the potential to cause cancer.

--- page 308 ---
18 
 
Conditions Of Approval 
 
Consistent with the City’s General Plan Policy LU 8.9 Air Quality Construction Impact and Policy 
LU 8.11 Toxic Air Contaminants, measures to minimize impacts would be incorporated into 
project construction plans.  Project COAs include measures to minimize dust generation and 
equipment exhaust that are consistent with these policies.  The construction impact analysis 
includes the effects of the COA that would reduce emissions of TACs and PM2.5.  
 
Construction Emissions 
 
The CalEEMod model and EMFAC2021 emissions provided total annual PM10 exhaust emissions 
(assumed to be DPM) for the off-road construction equipment and for exhaust emissions from on-
road vehicles, with total emissions from all construction stages as 0.02 tons (43 pounds). The on-
road emissions are a result of haul truck travel during grading activities, worker travel, and vendor 
deliveries during construction. A trip length of one mile was used to represent vehicle travel while 
at or near the construction site. It was assumed that these emissions from on-road vehicles traveling 
at or near the site would occur at the construction site. Fugitive PM2.5 dust emissions were 
calculated by CalEEMod as 0.003 tons (7 pounds) for the overall construction period.  
 
Dispersion Modeling 
 
The U.S. EPA AERMOD dispersion model was used to predict concentrations of DPM and PM2.5 
concentrations at sensitive receptors in the vicinity of the project construction area. The AERMOD 
dispersion model is a BAAQMD-recommended model for use in modeling analysis of these types 
of emission activities for CEQA projects.13 Emission sources for the construction site were 
grouped into two categories: exhaust emissions of DPM and fugitive PM2.5 dust emissions. 
 
Construction Sources 
 
Combustion equipment DPM exhaust emissions were modeled as a series of point sources with a 
nine-foot release height (construction equipment exhaust stack height) placed at 23 feet (7 meter) 
intervals throughout the construction site. This resulted in 24 individual point sources being used 
to represent mobile equipment DPM exhaust emissions in the respective construction area, with 
DPM emissions occurring throughout the project construction site. In addition, the following stack 
parameters were used: a vertical release, a stack diameter of 2.5 inches, an exhaust temperature of 
918˚F, and an exit velocity of 309 feet per second. Since these are point sources plume rise is 
calculated by the AERMOD dispersion model. Emissions from vehicle travel on- and off-site were 
also distributed among the point sources throughout the site. The locations of the point sources 
used for the modeling are identified in Figure 1. 
 
For modeling fugitive PM2.5 emissions, a near-ground level release height of 7 feet (2 meters) was 
used for the area source. Fugitive dust emissions at construction sites come from a variety of 
sources, including truck and equipment travel, grading activities, truck loading (with loaders) and 
unloading (rear or bottom dumping), loaders and excavators moving and transferring soil and other 
 
13 Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and 
Modeling Local Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May.

--- page 309 ---
19 
 
materials, etc. All of these activities result in fugitive dust emissions at various heights at the 
point(s) of generation. Once generated, the dust plume will tend to rise as it moves downwind 
across the site and exit the site at a higher elevation than when it was generated. For all these 
reasons, a 7-foot release height was used as the average release height across the construction site. 
Emissions from the construction equipment and on-road vehicle travel were distributed throughout 
the modeled area sources.  
 
AERMOD Inputs and Meteorological Data 
 
The modeling used a five-year data set (2013 - 2017) of hourly meteorological data from the San 
Francisco International Airport prepared for use with the AERMOD model by BAAQMD. 
Construction emissions were modeled as occurring daily between 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., when the 
majority of construction activity is expected to occur. Annual DPM and PM2.5 concentrations from 
construction activities during the 2022-2023 period were calculated using the model. DPM and 
PM2.5 concentrations were calculated at nearby sensitive receptors. Receptor heights of 5 feet (1.5 
meters), 15 feet (4.5 meters), and 25 feet (7.6 meters) were used to represent the breathing height 
on the first, second, and third floor of nearby single and multi-family residences.14 Receptor 
heights of 3 feet (1 meter) were used at the St. Matthew Catholic Elementary School and the 
Centennial Montessori School.  
 
Summary of Construction Community Risk Impacts  
 
The maximum increased cancer risks were calculated using the modeled TAC concentrations 
combined with the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) guidance for 
age sensitivity factors and exposure parameters as recommended by BAAQMD (see Attachment 
1). Non-cancer health hazards and maximum PM2.5 concentrations were also calculated and 
identified. Age-sensitivity factors reflect the greater sensitivity of infants and small children to 
cancer causing TACs. Third trimester, infant, child, and adult exposures were assumed to occur at 
all residences during the entire construction period.  
 
The maximum modeled annual PM2.5 concentration was calculated based on combined exhaust and 
fugitive concentrations. The maximum computed HI value was based on the ratio of the maximum 
DPM concentration modeled and the chronic inhalation refence exposure level of 5 µg/m3.  
 
The maximum modeled annual DPM and PM2.5 concentrations, which includes both the DPM and 
fugitive PM2.5 concentrations, were identified at nearby sensitive receptors (as shown in Figure 1) 
to find the maximally exposed individuals (MEI). Results of this assessment indicated that the 
construction MEI was located on the second floor (15 feet above ground) of the adjacent multi-
family home northeast of the project site. Table 6 summarizes the maximum cancer risks, PM2.5 
concentrations, and health hazard indexes for project related construction activities affecting the 
construction MEIs. Attachment 4 to this report includes the emission calculations used for the 
construction area source modeling and the cancer risk calculations. A fourth floor of modeling is 
 
14 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local 
Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May. Web: https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/risk-modeling-approach-may-2012.pdf?la=en

--- page 310 ---
20 
 
not included in this analysis since the cancer risk and annual PM2.5 concentrations decreased from 
the second to third floors and would continue to decrease with height. 
 
Community Risks from Project Operation – Generator and Traffic  
 
Stationary equipment that could emit substantial TACs (e.g., emergency generators) are not 
planned for this project. Operation of the project would have long-term emissions from mobile 
sources (i.e., traffic). Per BAAQMD recommended risks and methodology, a road with less than 
10,000 total vehicles per day is considered a low-impact source of TACs.15 This project would 
generate 173 daily trips16 dispersed on the roadway system with a majority of the trips being from 
light-duty vehicles (i.e., passenger automobiles), which is a fraction of 10,000 daily vehicles. 
Therefore, emissions from project traffic are considered negligible and were not included in this 
analysis.    
 
Summary of Project-Related Community Risks at the Off-Site Project MEI 
 
Project risk impacts are shown in Table 6. The maximum cancer risks from construction activities 
at the residential project MEI locations without the project’s COAs would exceed the single-source 
significance threshold. However, with the incorporation of the project’s COAs, the risk would no 
longer exceed the BAAQMD single-source significance threshold. The PM2.5 concentration and 
non-cancer hazards from construction activities without the project’s COAs would be below the 
single-source significance threshold. 
 
Table 6. 
Construction and Operation Risk Impacts at the Off-Site MEI 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
Project Impact 
Project Construction                                                   Without COA 
With COA* 
16.61 (infant) 
0.99 (infant) 
0.11 
0.01 
0.02 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
10 
0.3 
1.0 
Exceed Threshold?                                                  Without COA 
With COA*  
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
* Construction equipment with Tier 4 interim engines and Best Management Practices as condition of approval. 
 
 
 
 
15 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local 
Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May. Web: https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/risk-modeling-approach-may-2012.pdf?la=en 
16 Email attachment from AECOM, September, 2021, Attachment:1 Hayward Ave – TIA Draft #2 100121.pdf.

--- page 311 ---
21 
 
Figure 1.  
Locations of Project Construction Site, Off-Site Sensitive Receptors, and 
Maximum TAC Impact

--- page 312 ---
22 
 
Cumulative Community Risks of all TAC Sources at the Offsite Project MEI 
 
Community health risk assessments typically look at all substantial sources of TACs that can affect 
sensitive receptors that are located within 1,000 feet of a project site (i.e., influence area). These 
sources include rail lines, highways, busy surface streets, and stationary sources identified by 
BAAQMD.  A review of the project area and based on provided traffic information indicated that 
one roadway, El Camino Real, within the influence area would have traffic exceeding 10,000 
vehicles per day. Other nearby streets are assumed to have less than 10,000 vehicles per day. A 
review of BAAQMD’s stationary source geographic information systems (GIS) map tool identified 
one stationary sources with the potential to affect the project site and MEI. Figure 2 shows the 
location of the sources affecting the MEI. Community risk impacts from these sources upon the 
MEI are reported in Table 7. Details of the modeling and community risk calculations are included 
in Attachment 5. 
 
Figure 2. 
Project Site and Nearby TAC and PM2.5 Sources

--- page 313 ---
23 
 
Local Roadways – El Camino Real 
 
A refined analysis of potential health impacts from vehicle traffic on El Camino Real was 
conducted. The refined analysis involved predicting emissions for the traffic volume and mix of 
vehicle types on the roadway near the project site and using an atmospheric dispersion model to 
predict exposure to TACs. The associated cancer risks are then computed based on the modeled 
exposures. Attachment 1 includes a description of how community risk impacts, including cancer 
risk are computed.  
 
Emission Rates  
 
This analysis involved the development of DPM, organic TACs, and PM2.5 emissions for traffic 
on both roadways using the Caltrans version of the EMFAC2017 emissions model, known as CT-
EMFAC2017. CT-EMFAC2017 provides emission factors for mobile source criteria pollutants 
and TACs, including DPM. Emission processes modeled include running exhaust for DPM, PM2.5 
and total organic compounds (e.g., TOG), running evaporative losses for TOG, and tire and brake 
wear and fugitive road dust for PM2.5. All PM2.5 emissions from all vehicles were used, rather than 
just the PM2.5 fraction from diesel powered vehicles, because all vehicle types (i.e., gasoline and 
diesel powered) produce PM2.5. Additionally, PM2.5 emissions from vehicle tire and brake wear 
and from re-entrained roadway dust were included in these emissions. DPM emissions are 
projected to decrease in the future and are reflected in the CT-EMFAC2017 emissions data. Inputs 
to the model include region (San Mateo County), type of road (major/collector), truck percentage 
for non-state highways in San Mateo County (3.13 percent),17 traffic mix assigned by CT-
EMFAC2017 for the county, year of analysis (2022 – construction start year), and season (annual).  
 
In order to estimate TAC and PM2.5 emissions over the 30-year exposure period used for 
calculating the increased cancer risks for sensitive receptors at the MEI and project site, the CT-
EMFAC2017 model was used to develop vehicle emission factors for the year 2022 (project 
construction year). Emissions associated with vehicle travel depend on the year of analysis because 
emission control technology requirements are phased-in over time. Therefore, the earlier the year 
analyzed in the model, the higher the emission rates utilized by CT-EMFAC2017. Year 2022 
emissions were conservatively assumed as being representative of future conditions over the time 
period that cancer risks are evaluated since, as discussed above, overall vehicle emissions, and in 
particular diesel truck emissions, will decrease in the future. 
 
The average daily traffic (ADT) for El Camino Real was calculated based on traffic data provided 
by the project’s traffic consultant.18 The estimated ADT on El Camino Real was 38,729 vehicles. 
Average hourly traffic distributions for San Mateo County roadways were developed using the 
EMFAC model,19 which were then applied to the ADT volumes to obtain estimated hourly traffic 
 
17 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, 2012, Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local 
Risks and Hazards, Version 3.0. May. Web: https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
research/ceqa/risk-modeling-approach-may-2012.pdf?la=en 
18 1 Hayward Ave Mixed-Use Development Transportation Impact Analysis Report, AECOM, September 2021, 
Attachment: 1 Hayward Ave – TIA Draft #1 Appendix – 092421.pdf.  
19 The Burden output from EMFAC2007, a previous version of CARB’s EMFAC model, was used for this since the 
current web-based version of EMFAC2014 does not include Burden type output with hour by hour traffic volume 
information.

--- page 314 ---
24 
 
volumes and emissions for the roadway. An average travel speed of 35 miles per hour (mph) on 
El Camino Real was used for all hours of the day based on posted speed limit signs on the roadway.  
 
Dispersion Modeling  
 
Dispersion modeling of TAC and PM2.5 emissions was conducted using the EPA AERMOD air 
quality dispersion model, which is recommended by the BAAQMD for this type of analysis.20 
TAC and PM2.5 emissions from traffic on El Camino Real within 1,000 feet of the project site were 
evaluated. Vehicle traffic on the roadway was modeled using a series of adjacent volume sources 
along a line (line volume sources); with line segments used for the northbound and southbound 
travel directions on El Camino Real. The same meteorological data and off-site sensitive receptors 
used in the previous dispersion modeling were used in the roadway modeling. Other inputs to the 
model included road geometry, hourly traffic emissions, and receptor locations. Annual TAC and 
PM2.5 concentrations for 2022 from traffic on El Camino Real were calculated using the model. 
Concentrations were calculated at the project MEI with receptor heights of 15 feet (4.5 meters) to 
represent the breathing heights of residents on the second floor in the multi-family homes.  
 
Figure 2 shows the roadway segments modeled and residential receptor locations used in the 
modeling. Table 7 lists the risks and hazards from the roadway. The emission rates and roadway 
calculations used in the analysis are shown in Attachment 5.  
 
BAAQMD Permitted Stationary Sources 
 
Permitted stationary sources of air pollution near the project site were identified using BAAQMD’s 
Permitted Stationary Sources 2018 GIS website,21 which identifies the location of nearby 
stationary sources and their estimated risk and hazard impacts, including emissions and 
adjustments to account for new OEHHA guidance. One source, a diesel-powered generator, was 
identified using this tool. The BAAQMD GIS website provided screening risks and hazards for 
this source, so a stationary source information request was not required to be submitted to 
BAAQMD.  
 
The screening level risks and hazards provided by BAAQMD for the stationary sources were 
adjusted for distance using BAAQMD’s Distance Adjustment Multiplier Tool for Diesel Internal 
Combustion Engines. Community risk impacts from the stationary sources upon the MEIs are 
reported in Table 7. 
 
Summary of Cumulative Health Risk Impact at Construction MEI 
  
Table 7 reports both the project and cumulative community risk impacts at the sensitive receptors 
most affected by construction (i.e., the MEI). The project would have an exceedance with respect 
to community risk caused by project construction activities, since the maximum cancer risk 
without the project’s COAs exceeds the BAAQMD single-source threshold. With the 
implementation of the project’s COAs, the project’s cancer risks would be lowered to a level below 
 
20 BAAQMD. Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards. May 2012 
21 BAAQMD, 
https://baaqmd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2387ae674013413f987b1071715daa65

--- page 315 ---
25 
 
the single-source threshold. The annual PM2.5 concentration and Hazard Index, without and with 
the COAs, do not exceed their single-source or cumulative threshold. According to BAAQMD, 
health risks would be less than significant if the risks from the project are reduced below the single 
source thresholds. 
 
Table 7.  
Cumulative Community Risk Impacts at the Location of the Project MEI  
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
Project Impacts 
Project Construction                                                   Without COA 
With COA*
16.61 (infant) 
0.99 (infant) 
0.11 
0.01 
0.02 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
10 
0.3 
1.0 
Exceed Threshold?                                                 Without COA 
With COA 
Yes 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
Cumulative Sources 
El Camino Real, ADT 38,729 
4.83 
0.32 
<0.01 
Lesley Foundation dba Lesley Senior Communities (Facility ID 
#22188, Generators), MEI at 1000+ feet 
0.10 
- 
- 
Combined Sources                                                  Without COA 
With COA 
21.54 
5.92 
0.43 
0.33 
<0.03 
<0.02 
                BAAQMD Cumulative Source Threshold 
100 
0.8 
10.0 
 Exceed Threshold?                                                Without COA 
With COA
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
No 
 
Effectiveness of the Conditions of Approval 
 
CalEEMod was used to compute emissions associated with the project’s COAs assuming that all 
equipment met U.S. EPA Tier 4 interim engines standards along with BAAQMD best management 
practices for construction were included. With this implemented, the project’s construction cancer 
risk impact, assuming infant exposure, would be reduced by 94 percent to 0.99 chances per million. 
A plan that reduces DPM emissions by 45 percent would reduce cancer risk to about 9.1 chances 
per million. As a result, the project’s construction cancer risk with the COAs would be reduced 
below the BAAQMD single-source threshold.

--- page 316 ---
26 
 
On-Site Community Health Risk Impacts – New Project Residents 
 
The City’s General Plan, Policy LU 8.11 - Toxic Air Contaminants, requires that when new 
residential are proposed near existing sources of TAC’s, either adequate buffer distances shall be 
provided or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure 
to acceptable levels.  BAAQMD’s recommended thresholds for health risks and hazards, shown in 
Table 1, are used to evaluate on-site exposure. 
 
This health risk assessment was completed to assess the impact existing TAC sources would have 
on the new proposed sensitive receptors (residents) that that project would introduce. The same 
TAC sources identified above were used in this health risk assessment.22 The project includes a 
COA to require enhanced MERV13 filtration in order to meet the General Plan’s policy. 
Local Roadways – El Camino Real 
 
The roadway analysis for the project residents was conducted in the same manner as described 
above for the off-site MEI. However, year 2024 (operational year), instead of 2022 (construction 
year), emission factors were conservatively assumed as being representative of future conditions. 
Changing to the operational year results in an increased ADT on El Camino Real of 39,496. The 
project set of receptors were placed throughout the project area and were spaced every 23 feet (7 
meters). Roadway impacts were modeled at receptor heights of 15 feet (4.5 meters) and 25 feet 
(7.6 meters) representing sensitive receptors on the second and third floors of the future multi-
family residences. The portions of El Camino Real included in the modeling are shown in Figure 
3 along with the project site and receptor locations where impacts were modeled.    
 
Maximum increased cancer risks were calculated for the residents at the project site using the 
maximum modeled TAC concentrations. A 30-year exposure period was used in calculating cancer 
risks assuming the residents would include third trimester pregnancy and infants/children and were 
assumed to be in the new homes for 24 hours per day for 350 days per year. The highest impacts 
from El Camino Real occurred at the second-floor receptor (first residential level) in the southeast 
portion of the project site. Cancer risks associated with El Camino Real are greatest closest to the 
roadway and decrease with distance. The roadway community risk impacts at the project site with 
the incorporation of the project’s MERV13 air filtration COA are shown in Table 8. Details of the 
emission calculations, dispersion modeling, and cancer risk calculations are contained in 
Attachment 5. A fourth floor of modeling is not included in this analysis since the cancer risk and 
annual PM2.5 concentrations decreased from the second to third floors of the proposed building 
and would continue to decrease with height. 
 
 
22 We note that to the extent this analysis considers existing air quality issues in relation to the impact on future 
residents of the Project, it does so for informational purposes only pursuant to the judicial decisions in CBIA v. 
BAAQMD (2015) 62 Cal.4th 369, 386 and Ballona Wetlands Land Trust v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 201 
Cal.App.4th 455, 473, which confirm that the impacts of the environment on a project are excluded from CEQA 
unless the project itself “exacerbates” such impacts.

--- page 317 ---
27 
 
Figure 3.  
Project Site, On-Site Residential Receptors, Roadway Segments Evaluated, 
and Locations of Maximum Roadway TAC Impacts 
 
 
Stationary Sources 
 
The stationary source screening analysis for the new project sensitive receptors was conducted in 
the same manner as described above for the construction MEI. Table 8 shows the health risk 
screening results from the stationary sources. 
 
Combined Community Health Risk at Project Site 
 
Community risk impacts from the existing TAC sources upon the project site are reported in Table 
8. The risks from the singular TAC sources are compared against the BAAQMD single-source 
threshold. The risks from all the sources are then combined and compared against the BAAQMD 
cumulative-source threshold. As shown, the cancer risk, annual PM2.5 concentrations, and HI from 
the nearby sources do not exceed their single-source or cumulative-source thresholds. The risks 
shown in Table 8 incorporate the project’s conditions of approval.

--- page 318 ---
28 
 
Table 8. 
Cumulative Community Risk Impacts Upon the On-site Sensitive Receptors 
Source 
Cancer Risk 
(per million) 
Annual PM2.5 
(µg/m3) 
Hazard 
Index 
El Camino Real, ADT 39,496 – With COA                          
2.37 
0.11 
<0.01 
Lesley Foundation dba Lesley Senior Communities (Facility ID 
#22188, Generator), Project Site at 900 feet 
0.12 
- 
- 
BAAQMD Single-Source Threshold 
>10.0 
>0.3 
>1.0 
 Exceed Threshold?  
No 
No 
No 
Cumulative Total  
2.50 
0.11 
<0.01 
BAAQMD Cumulative Source Threshold 
>100 
>0.8 
>10.0 
  Exceed Threshold?  
No 
No 
No

--- page 319 ---
29 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
 
Setting 
 
Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere, GHGs, regulate the earth’s temperature. This phenomenon, 
known as the greenhouse effect, is responsible for maintaining a habitable climate. The most 
common GHGs are carbon dioxide (CO2) and water vapor but there are also several others, most 
importantly methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). These are released into the earth’s atmosphere through a 
variety of natural processes and human activities. Sources of GHGs are generally as follows: 
 
 CO2, CH4, and N2O are byproducts of fossil fuel combustion. 
 N2O is associated with agricultural operations such as fertilization of crops. 
 CH4 is commonly created by off-gassing from agricultural practices (e.g., keeping 
livestock) and landfill operations. 
 Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) were widely used as refrigerants, propellants, and cleaning 
solvents but their production has been stopped by international treaty. 
 HFCs are now used as a substitute for CFCs in refrigeration and cooling. 
 PFCs and sulfur hexafluoride emissions are commonly created by industries such as 
aluminum production and semi-conductor manufacturing. 
 
Each GHG has its own potency and effect upon the earth’s energy balance. This is expressed in 
terms of a global warming potential (GWP), with CO2 being assigned a value of 1 and sulfur 
hexafluoride being several orders of magnitude stronger. In GHG emission inventories, the weight 
of each gas is multiplied by its GWP and is measured in units of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). 
 
An expanding body of scientific research supports the theory that global climate change is 
currently affecting changes in weather patterns, average sea level, ocean acidification, chemical 
reaction rates, and precipitation rates, and that it will increasingly do so in the future. The climate 
and several naturally occurring resources within California are adversely affected by the global 
warming trend. Increased precipitation and sea level rise will increase coastal flooding, saltwater 
intrusion, and degradation of wetlands. Mass migration and/or loss of plant and animal species 
could also occur. Potential effects of global climate change that could adversely affect human 
health include more extreme heat waves and heat-related stress; an increase in climate-sensitive 
diseases; more frequent and intense natural disasters such as flooding, hurricanes and drought; and 
increased levels of air pollution. 
 
Recent Regulatory Actions for GHG Emissions  
 
Executive Order S-3-05 – California GHG Reduction Targets  
 
Executive Order (EO) S-3-05 was signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger in 2005 to set GHG 
emission reduction targets for California. The three targets established by this EO are as follows: 
(1) reduce California’s GHG emissions to 2000 levels by 2010, (2) reduce California’s GHG 
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, and (3) reduce California’s GHG emissions by 80 percent below 
1990 levels by 2050.

--- page 320 ---
30 
 
Assembly Bill 32 – California Global Warming Solutions Act (2006)  
 
Assembly Bill (AB) 32, the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, codified the State’s GHG 
emissions target by directing CARB to reduce the State’s global warming emissions to 1990 levels 
by 2020. AB 32 was signed and passed into law by Governor Schwarzenegger on September 27, 
2006. Since that time, the CARB, CEC, California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), and 
Building Standards Commission have all been developing regulations that will help meet the goals 
of AB 32 and Executive Order S-3-05, which has a target of reducing GHG emissions 80 percent 
below 1990 levels.  
 
A Scoping Plan for AB 32 was adopted by CARB in December 2008. It contains the State’s main 
strategies to reduce GHGs from business-as-usual emissions projected in 2020 back down to 1990 
levels. Business-As-Usual (BAU) is the projected emissions in 2020, including increases in 
emissions caused by growth, without any GHG reduction measures. The Scoping Plan has a range 
of GHG reduction actions, including direct regulations, alternative compliance mechanisms, 
monetary and non-monetary incentives, voluntary actions, and market-based mechanisms such as 
a cap-and-trade system.  
 
As directed by AB 32, CARB has also approved a statewide GHG emissions limit. On December 
6, 2007, CARB staff resolved an amount of 427 million metric tons (MMT) of CO2e as the total 
statewide GHG 1990 emissions level and 2020 emissions limit. The limit is a cumulative statewide 
limit, not a sector- or facility-specific limit. CARB updated the future 2020 BAU annual emissions 
forecast, in light of the economic downturn, to 545 MMT of CO2e. Two GHG emissions reduction 
measures currently enacted that were not previously included in the 2008 Scoping Plan baseline 
inventory were included, further reducing the baseline inventory to 507 MMT of CO2e. Thus, an 
estimated reduction of 80 MMT of CO2e is necessary to reduce statewide emissions to meet the 
AB 32 target by 2020. 
 
Executive Order B-30-15 & Senate Bill 32 GHG Reduction Targets – 2030 GHG Reduction Target 
 
In April 2015, Governor Brown signed EO B-30-15, which extended the goals of AB 32, setting 
a greenhouse gas emissions target at 40 percent of 1990 levels by 2030. On September 8, 2016, 
Governor Brown signed Senate Bill (SB) 32, which legislatively established the GHG reduction 
target of 40 percent of 1990 levels by 2030. In November 2017, CARB issued California’s 2017 
Climate Change Scoping Plan. 23 While the State is on track to exceed the AB 32 scoping plan 
2020 targets, this plan is an update to reflect the enacted SB 32 reduction target.  
 
SB 32 was passed in 2016, which codified a 2030 GHG emissions reduction target of 40 percent 
below 1990 levels. CARB is currently working on a second update to the Scoping Plan to reflect 
the 2030 target set by Executive Order B-30-15 and codified by SB 32. The proposed Scoping 
Plan Update was published on January 20, 2017 as directed by SB 32 companion legislation AB 
197. The mid-term 2030 target is considered critical by CARB on the path to obtaining an even 
deeper GHG emissions target of 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, as directed in Executive 
 
23 California Air Resource Board, 2017. California’s 2017 Climate Change Scoping Plan: The Strategy for 
Achieving California’s 2030 Greenhouse Gas Targets. November. Web: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/classic//cc/scopingplan/scoping_plan_2017.pdf

--- page 321 ---
31 
 
Order S-3-05. The Scoping Plan outlines the suite of policy measures, regulations, planning efforts, 
and investments in clean technologies and infrastructure, providing a blueprint to continue driving 
down GHG emissions and obtain the statewide goals. 
 
The new Scoping Plan establishes a strategy that will reduce GHG emissions in California to meet 
the 2030 target (note that the AB 32 Scoping Plan only addressed 2020 targets and a long-term 
goal). Key features of this plan are: 
 
 Cap and Trade program places a firm limit on 80 percent of the State’s emissions; 
 Achieving a 50-percent Renewable Portfolio Standard by 2030 (currently at about 29 
percent statewide); 
 Increase energy efficiency in existing buildings;  
 Develop fuels with an 18-percent reduction in carbon intensity; 
 Develop more high-density, transit-oriented housing; 
 Develop walkable and bikeable communities; 
 Greatly increase the number of electric vehicles on the road and reduce oil demand in half; 
 Increase zero-emissions transit so that 100 percent of new buses are zero emissions; 
 Reduce freight-related emissions by transitioning to zero emissions where feasible and 
near-zero emissions with renewable fuels everywhere else; and  
 Reduce “super pollutants” by reducing methane and hydrofluorocarbons by 40 percent. 
 
In the updated Scoping Plan, CARB recommends statewide targets of no more than 6 metric tons 
CO2e per capita (statewide) by 2030 and no more than 2 metric tons CO2e per capita by 2050. The 
statewide per capita targets account for all emissions sectors in the State, statewide population 
forecasts, and the statewide reductions necessary to achieve the 2030 statewide target under SB 32 
and the longer-term State emissions reduction goal of 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050.  
 
Executive Order B-55-18 – Carbon Neutrality  
 
In 2018, a new statewide goal was established to achieve carbon neutrality as soon as possible, but 
no later than 2045, and to maintain net negative emissions thereafter. CARB and other relevant 
state agencies are tasked with establishing sequestration targets and create policies/programs that 
would meet this goal.  
 
Senate Bill 375 – California's Regional Transportation and Land Use Planning Efforts (2008) 
 
California enacted legislation (SB 375) to expand the efforts of AB 32 by controlling indirect GHG 
emissions caused by urban sprawl. SB 375 provides incentives for local governments and 
applicants to implement new conscientiously planned growth patterns. This includes incentives for 
creating attractive, walkable, and sustainable communities and revitalizing existing communities. 
The legislation also allows applicants to bypass certain environmental reviews under CEQA if they 
build projects consistent with the new sustainable community strategies. Development of more 
alternative transportation options that would reduce vehicle trips and miles traveled, along with 
traffic congestion, would be encouraged. SB 375 enhances CARB’s ability to reach the AB 32 
goals by directing the agency in developing regional GHG emission reduction targets to be 
achieved from the transportation sector for 2020 and 2035. CARB works with the metropolitan

--- page 322 ---
32 
 
planning organizations (e.g. Association of Bay Area Governments [ABAG] and Metropolitan 
Transportation Commission [MTC]) to align their regional transportation, housing, and land use 
plans to reduce vehicle miles traveled and demonstrate the region's ability to attain its GHG 
reduction targets. A similar process is used to reduce transportation emissions of ozone precursor 
pollutants in the Bay Area. 
 
Senate Bill 350 - Renewable Portfolio Standards 
 
In September 2015, the California Legislature passed SB 350, which increases the states 
Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) for content of electrical generation from the 33 percent 
target for 2020 to a 50 percent renewables target by 2030. 
 
Senate Bill 100 – Current Renewable Portfolio Standards  
 
In September 2018, SB 100 was signed by Governor Brown to revise California’s RPS program 
goals, furthering California’s focus on using renewable energy and carbon-free power sources for 
its energy needs. The bill would require all California utilities to supply a specific percentage of 
their retail sales from renewable resources by certain target years. By December 31, 2024, 44 
percent of the retails sales would need to be from renewable energy sources, by December 31, 
2026 the target would be 40 percent, by December 31, 2017 the target would be 52 percent, and 
by December 31, 2030 the target would be 60 percent. By December 31, 2045, all California 
utilities would be required to supply retail electricity that is 100 percent carbon-free and sourced 
from eligible renewable energy resource to all California end-use customers.  
 
California Building Standards Code – Title 24 Part 11 & Part 6 
 
The California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen Code) is part of the California 
Building Standards Code under Title 24, Part 11.24 The CALGreen Code encourages sustainable 
construction standards that involve planning/design, energy efficiency, water efficiency resource 
efficiency, and environmental quality. These green building standard codes are mandatory 
statewide and are applicable to residential and non-residential developments. The most recent 
CALGreen Code (2019 California Building Standard Code) was effective as of January 1, 2020.  
 
The California Building Energy Efficiency Standards (California Energy Code) is under Title 24, 
Part 6 and is overseen by the California Energy Commission (CEC). This code includes design 
requirements to conserve energy in new residential and non-residential developments, while being 
cost effective for homeowners. This Energy Code is enforced and verified by cities during the 
planning and building permit process. The current energy efficiency standards (2019 Energy Code) 
replaced the 2016 Energy Code as of January 1,2020. Under the 2019 standards, single-family 
homes are predicted to be 53 percent more efficient than homes built under the 2016 standard due 
more stringent energy-efficiency standards and mandatory installation of solar photovoltaic 
systems. For nonresidential developments, it is predicted that these buildings will use 30 percent 
less energy due to lightening upgrades.25  
 
24 See: https://www.dgs.ca.gov/BSC/Resources/Page-Content/Building-Standards-Commission-Resources-List-
Folder/CALGreen#:~:text=CALGreen%20is%20the%20first%2Din,to%201990%20levels%20by%202020. 
25 See: https://www.energy.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2020-03/Title_24_2019_Building_Standards_FAQ_ada.pdf

--- page 323 ---
33 
 
Federal and Statewide GHG Emissions 
 
The U.S. EPA reported that in 2018, total gross nationwide GHG emissions were 6,676.6 million 
metric tons (MMT) carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).26 These emissions were lower than peak 
levels of 7,416 MMT that were emitted in 2007. CARB updates the statewide GHG emission 
inventory on an annual basis where the latest inventory includes 2000 through 2017 emissions.27 
In 2017, GHG emissions from statewide emitting activities were 424 MMT. The 2017 emissions 
have decreased by 14 percent since peak levels in 2004 and are 7 MMT below the 1990 emissions 
level and the State’s 2020 GHG limit. Per capita GHG emissions in California have dropped from 
a 2001 peak of 14.1 MT per person to 10.7 MT per person in 2017. The most recent Bay Area 
emission inventory was computed for the year 2011.28 The Bay Area GHG emission were 87 
MMT. As a point of comparison, statewide emissions were about 444 MMT in 2011 
 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan  
 
The City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (CAP),29 updated and adopted in April 2020, is a 
qualified GHG reduction strategy that was developed by the City to not only reduce their GHG 
emissions but also improve the quality of life in San Mateo. The 2020 CAP contains 29 GHG 
reduction measures that will help reduce the community’s GHG emissions to meet the City’s 
reduction targets. The City has GHG reduction targets of reducing GHG levels by 15 percent from 
2005 levels by 2020, 4.3 MTCO2e per capita by 2030, and 1.2 MTCO2e per capita by 2050.  
 
Additionally, The CAP includes the CAP Consistency Checklist (Appendix 3 in the CAP) that 
identifies the minimum criteria a project must demonstrate to use the City's CAP for purposes of 
streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions under CEQA. The CAP Checklist ensures that all new 
development projects are complaint with the City’s CAP measures. If a new development complies 
with the CAP, then the new development would be found to have a less-than-significant impact 
for GHG emissions. 
 
BAAQMD GHG Significance Thresholds 
 
The BAAQMD’s CEQA Air Quality Guidelines do not use quantified thresholds for projects that 
are in a jurisdiction with a qualified GHG reductions plan (i.e., a Climate Action Plan). The plan 
has to address emissions associated with the period that the project would operate (e.g., beyond 
year 2020). For quantified emissions, the guidelines recommended a GHG threshold of 1,100 
metric tons or 4.6 metric tons (MT) per capita. These thresholds were developed based on meeting 
 
26 United States Environmental Protection Agency, 2020. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks 
1990-2018. April. Web: https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2020-04/documents/us-ghg-inventory-2020-
main-text.pdf 
27 CARB. 2019. 2019 Edition, California Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory: 2000 – 2017. Web: 
https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/cc/inventory/pubs/reports/2000_2017/ghg_inventory_trends_00-17.pdf 
28 BAAQMD. 2015. Bay Area Emissions Inventory Summary Report: Greenhouse Gases Base Year 2011. January. 
Web: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/emission-inventory/by2011_ghgsummary.pdf 
accessed Nov. 26, 2019. 
29 City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan. April 2020. 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=

--- page 324 ---
34 
 
the 2020 GHG targets set in the scoping plan that addressed AB 32. Development of the project 
would occur beyond 2020, so a threshold that addresses a future target is appropriate.  
 
BAAQMD has not published quantified thresholds post 2020; therefore, the City of San Mateo 
has elected to rely on the compliance with the City’s CAP Checklist measures to determine 
significance for GHG emissions. The City’s CAP Checklist is included in Attachment 6. 
 
Impact-GHG 1:  
Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either directly or indirectly, that 
may have a significant impact on the environment? 
 
GHG emissions associated with development of the proposed project would occur over the short-
term from construction activities, consisting primarily of emissions from equipment exhaust and 
worker and vendor trips. There would also be long-term operational emissions associated with 
vehicular traffic within the project vicinity, energy and water usage, and solid waste disposal. 
Emissions for the proposed project are discussed below and were analyzed using the methodology 
recommended in the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines and the City’s Climate Action Plan. 
 
CalEEMod Modeling 
 
CalEEMod was used to predict GHG emissions from operation of the site assuming full build-out 
of the project. The project land use types and size and other project-specific information were input 
to the model, as described above within the operational period emissions. CalEEMod output is 
included in Attachment 2. 
 
Service Population 
 
The project service population efficiency rate is based on the number of future residents and 
employees. For this project, the number of future residents and employees was provided by the 
applicant.  Using the provided information, the service population was estimated to be 36 (27 
residents + 9 employees).  
 
Construction GHG Emissions 
 
GHG emissions associated with construction were computed to be 84 MT of CO2e for the total 
construction period. These are the emissions from on-site operation of construction equipment, 
vendor and hauling truck trips, and worker trips. Neither the City nor BAAQMD have an adopted 
threshold of significance for construction related GHG emissions, though BAAQMD recommends 
quantifying emissions and disclosing that GHG emissions would occur during construction. 
BAAQMD also encourages the incorporation of best management practices to reduce GHG 
emissions during construction where feasible and applicable.  
 
Operational GHG Emissions 
 
The CalEEMod model, along with the project vehicle trip generation rates, was used to estimate 
daily emissions associated with operation of the fully developed site under the proposed project. 
As shown in Table 9, the annual emissions resulting from operation of the new dwelling units of

--- page 325 ---
35 
 
the proposed project are predicted to be 141 MT of CO2e in 2024 and 131 MT of CO2e in 2030. 
The service population emission for the year 2024 and 2030 are predicted to be 3.92 and 3.63 
MT/CO2e/year/service population, respectively.  
 
The project would be below the City’s service population target of 4.3 MTCO2e per capita by 
2030. However, the project is subject to the City of San Mateo’s CAP to meet AB 32 requirements. 
The implementation of the COAs, which requires the project to use the CAP checklist, would 
demonstrate the project’s consistency with the City’s CAP.   
 
Table 9.  
Annual Project GHG Emissions (CO2e) in Metric Tons 
Source Category 
Proposed Project in 2024 
Proposed Project in 2030 
Area 
0 
0 
Energy Consumption 
0 
0 
Mobile 
120 
110 
Solid Waste Generation 
6 
6 
Water Usage 
1 
1 
Total (MT CO2e/year) 
128 
118 
Service Population Emissions  
(MT CO2e/year/service population)   
3.56 
3.27 
City’s CAP Target 
 
4.3 in 2030 
 
Impact GHG-2:  
Conflict with an applicable plan, policy or regulation adopted for the 
purpose of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases? 
 
The proposed project would not conflict or otherwise interfere with the statewide GHG reduction 
measures identified in CARB’s Scoping Plan nor would the project conflict with SB 100 goals. 
For example, proposed buildings would be constructed in conformance with CALGreen and the 
Title 24 Building Code, which requires high-efficiency water fixtures, water-efficient irrigation 
systems, and compliance with current energy efficacy standards

--- page 326 ---
36 
 
Supporting Documentation 
 
Attachment 1 is the methodology used to compute community risk impacts, including the methods 
to compute lifetime cancer risk from exposure to project emissions. 
 
Attachment 2 includes the CalEEMod output for project construction emissions. Also included are 
any modeling assumptions. 
 
Attachment 3 includes the EMFAC2021 emissions modeling. The input files for these calculations 
are voluminous and are available upon request in digital format.  
 
Attachment 4 is the construction health risk assessment. This includes the summary of the 
dispersion modeling and the cancer risk calculations for construction. AERMOD dispersion 
modeling files for this assessment, which are quite voluminous, are available upon request and 
would be provided in digital format 
 
Attachment 5 includes the cumulative community risk calculations, modeling results, and health 
risk calculations from sources affecting the construction MEI and project site receptors.   
 
Attachment 6 is the Compliance Checklist contained in the City’s Climate Action Plan.

--- page 327 ---
Attachment 1: Health Risk Calculation Methodology 
 
A health risk assessment (HRA) for exposure to Toxic Air Contaminates (TACs) requires the 
application of a risk characterization model to the results from the air dispersion model to estimate 
potential health risk at each sensitive receptor location. The State of California Office of 
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) and California Air Resources Board 
(CARB) develop recommended methods for conducting health risk assessments. The most recent 
OEHHA risk assessment guidelines were published in February of 2015.30 These guidelines 
incorporate substantial changes designed to provide for enhanced protection of children, as 
required by State law, compared to previous published risk assessment guidelines. CARB has 
provided additional guidance on implementing OEHHA’s recommended methods.31  This HRA 
used the 2015 OEHHA risk assessment guidelines and CARB guidance. The BAAQMD has 
adopted recommended procedures for applying the newest OEHHA guidelines as part of 
Regulation 2, Rule 5: New Source Review of Toxic Air Contaminants.32 Exposure parameters 
from the OEHHA guidelines and the recent BAAQMD HRA Guidelines were used in this 
evaluation.  
 
Cancer Risk 
 
Potential increased cancer risk from inhalation of TACs is calculated based on the TAC 
concentration over the period of exposure, inhalation dose, the TAC cancer potency factor, and an 
age sensitivity factor to reflect the greater sensitivity of infants and children to cancer causing 
TACs. The inhalation dose depends on a person’s breathing rate, exposure time and frequency and 
duration of exposure. These parameters vary depending on the age, or age range, of the persons 
being exposed and whether the exposure is considered to occur at a residential location or other 
sensitive receptor location. 
 
The current OEHHA guidance recommends that cancer risk be calculated by age groups to account 
for different breathing rates and sensitivity to TACs. Specifically, they recommend evaluating 
risks for the third trimester of pregnancy to age zero, ages zero to less than two (infant exposure), 
ages two to less than 16 (child exposure), and ages 16 to 70 (adult exposure). Age sensitivity 
factors (ASFs) associated with the different types of exposure are an ASF of 10 for the third 
trimester and infant exposures, an ASF of 3 for a child exposure, and an ASF of 1 for an adult 
exposure. Also associated with each exposure type are different breathing rates, expressed as liters 
per kilogram of body weight per day (L/kg-day) or liters per kilogram of body weight per 8-hour 
period for the case of worker or school child exposures. As recommended by the BAAQMD for 
residential exposures, 95th percentile breathing rates are used for the third trimester and infant 
exposures, and 80th percentile breathing rates for child and adult exposures. For children at schools 
and daycare facilities, BAAQMD recommends using the 95th percentile 8-hour breathing rates. 
Additionally, CARB and the BAAQMD recommend the use of a residential exposure duration of 
 
30 OEHHA, 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines, The Air Toxics Hot Spots Program 
Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. 
February. 
31 CARB, 2015. Risk Management Guidance for Stationary Sources of Air Toxics. July 23. 
32 BAAQMD, 2016. BAAQMD Air Toxics NSR Program Health Risk Assessment ( HRA) Guidelines. December 2016.

--- page 328 ---
30 years for sources with long-term emissions (e.g., roadways). For workers, assumed to be adults, 
a 25-year exposure period is recommended by the BAAQMD. For school children a 9-year 
exposure period is recommended by the BAAQMD. 
 
Under previous OEHHA and BAAQMD HRA guidance, residential receptors are assumed to be 
at their home 24 hours a day, or 100 percent of the time. In the 2015 Risk Assessment Guidance, 
OEHHA includes adjustments to exposure duration to account for the fraction of time at home 
(FAH), which can be less than 100 percent of the time, based on updated population and activity 
statistics. The FAH factors are age-specific and are: 0.85 for third trimester of pregnancy to less 
than 2 years old, 0.72 for ages 2 to less than 16 years, and 0.73 for ages 16 to 70 years. Use of the 
FAH factors is allowed by the BAAQMD if there are no schools in the project vicinity have a 
cancer risk of one in a million or greater assuming 100 percent exposure (FAH = 1.0).  
 
Functionally, cancer risk is calculated using the following parameters and formulas: 
 
Cancer Risk (per million) = CPF x Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x FAH x 106 
Where: 
CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)-1 
 
 
 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group 
 
 
 
ED = Exposure duration (years) 
 
 
 
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years) 
 
 
 
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless) 
 
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR* x A x (EF/365) x 10-6 
Where: 
Cair = concentration in air (μg/m3) 
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day) 
8HrBR = 8-hour breathing rate (L/kg body weight-8 hours)  
A = Inhalation absorption factor 
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year) 
10-6 = Conversion factor 
 
The health risk parameters used in this evaluation are summarized as follows:  
 
Exposure Type  
Infant 
Child 
Adult 
Parameter 
Age Range  
3rd 
Trimester 
0<2 
2 < 16 
16 - 30 
DPM Cancer Potency Factor (mg/kg-day)-1 
1.10E+00 
1.10E+00 1.10E+00 1.10E+00 
Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day) 80th Percentile Rate 
273 
758 
572 
261 
Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day) 95th Percentile Rate 
361 
1,090 
745 
335 
8-hour Breathing Rate (L/kg-8 hours) 95th Percentile Rate 
- 
1,200 
520 
240 
Inhalation Absorption Factor  
1 
1 
1 
1 
Averaging Time (years) 
70 
70 
70 
70 
Exposure Duration (years) 
0.25 
2 
14 
14* 
Exposure Frequency (days/year) 
350 
350 
350 
350* 
Age Sensitivity Factor 
10 
10 
3 
1 
Fraction of Time at Home (FAH) 
0.85-1.0 
0.85-1.0 
0.72-1.0 
0.73* 
* An 8-hour breathing rate (8HrBR) is used for worker and school child exposures.

--- page 329 ---
Non-Cancer Hazards 
 
Non-cancer health risk is usually determined by comparing the predicted level of exposure to a 
chemical to the level of exposure that is not expected to cause any adverse effects (reference 
exposure level), even to the most susceptible people. Potential non-cancer health hazards from 
TAC exposure are expressed in terms of a hazard index (HI), which is the ratio of the TAC 
concentration to a reference exposure level (REL). OEHHA has defined acceptable concentration 
levels for contaminants that pose non-cancer health hazards. TAC concentrations below the REL 
are not expected to cause adverse health impacts, even for sensitive individuals. The total HI is 
calculated as the sum of the HIs for each TAC evaluated and the total HI is compared to the 
BAAQMD significance thresholds to determine whether a significant non-cancer health impact 
from a project would occur.  
 
Typically, for residential projects located near roadways with substantial TAC emissions, the 
primary TAC of concern with non-cancer health effects is diesel particulate matter (DPM). For 
DPM, the chronic inhalation REL is 5 micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m3).  
 
Annual PM2.5 Concentrations 
 
While not a TAC, fine particulate matter (PM2.5) has been identified by the BAAQMD as a 
pollutant with potential non-cancer health effects that should be included when evaluating 
potential community health impacts under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The 
thresholds of significance for PM2.5 (project level and cumulative) are in terms of an increase in 
the annual average concentration. When considering PM2.5 impacts, the contribution from all 
sources of PM2.5 emissions should be included. For projects with potential impacts from nearby 
local roadways, the PM2.5 impacts should include those from vehicle exhaust emissions, PM2.5 
generated from vehicle tire and brake wear, and fugitive emissions from re-suspended dust on the 
roads.

--- page 330 ---
Attachment 2: CalEEMod Modeling Inputs and Outputs

--- page 331 ---
Air Quality/Noise Construction Information Data Request
Project Name: 
1 Hayward Ave
See  Equipment Type TAB for type, horsepower and load factor
Project Size
18 Dwelling Units
0.29 total project acres disturbed
23,190 s.f. residential
Pile Driving? Y/N?
NA
s.f. retail
4,650 s.f. office/commercial
Project include OPERATIONAL GENERATOR OR FIRE PUMP on-site? Y/N? ____
NA
s.f. other, specify:
IF YES (if BOTH separate values) -->
9,510 s.f. parking garage
22 spaces
Kilowatts/Horsepower:  __________
NA
s.f. parking lot
spaces
Fuel Type:  _____________
Construction Hours
7 am   to
4 pm
Location in project (Plans Desired if Available):
DO NOT MULTIPLY EQUIPMENT HOURS/DAY BY THE QUANTITY OF EQUIPMENT
Quantity
Description
HP
Load Factor
Hours/day
Total 
Work 
Days
Avg. 
Hours per 
day
HP 
Annual 
Hours
Comments
Demolition 
Start Date:
10/3/2022 Total phase:
10
Overall Import/Export Volumes
End Date:
10/14/2022
1
Concrete/Industrial Saws
81
0.73
8
10
8
4730
Demolition Volume
Excavators
158
0.38
0
0
Square footage of buildings to be demolished
1
Rubber-Tired Dozers
247
0.4
1
10
1
988
(or  total tons to be hauled)
2
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
6
10
6
4307
_6754_ square feet or
Other Equipment?
_?_ Hauling volume (tons)
Any pavement demolished and hauled? _?_ tons
Site Preparation
Start Date:
10/15/2022 Total phase:
1
End Date:
10/17/2022
1
Graders
187
0.41
8
1
8
613
Rubber Tired Dozers
247
0.4
0
0
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
8
1
8
287
Other Equipment?
Grading / Excavation 
Start Date:
10/18/2022 Total phase:
2
End Date:
10/19/2022
Soil Hauling Volume
Excavators
158
0.38
0
0
Export volume =  1000  cubic yards?
1
Graders
187
0.41
6
2
6
920
Import volume =  cubic yards?
1
Rubber Tired Dozers
247
0.4
6
2
6
1186
Concrete/Industrial Saws
81
0.73
0
0
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
7
2
7
502
Other Equipment?
Trenching/Foundation
Start Date:
10/18/2022 Total phase:
2
End Date:
10/19/2022
1
Tractor/Loader/Backhoe
97
0.37
8
2
8
574
1
Excavators
158
0.38
8
2
8
961
Other Equipment?
Building - Exterior
Start Date:
10/20/2022 Total phase:
100
Cement Trucks? _50_ Total Round-Trips
End Date:
3/8/2023
1
Cranes
231
0.29
4
100
4
26796
Electric? (Y/N) ___ Otherwise assumed diesel
2
Forklifts
89
0.2
6
100
6
21360
Liquid Propane (LPG)? (Y/N) ___ Otherwise Assumed diesel
Generator Sets
84
0.74
0
0
Or temporary line power? (Y/N) ___
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
8
100
8
28712
Welders
46
0.45
0
0
Other Equipment?
Building - Interior/Architectural Coating
Start Date:
3/9/2023 Total phase:
5
End Date:
3/15/2023
4
Air Compressors
78
0.48
6
5
6
4493
Aerial Lift
62
0.31
0
0
Other Equipment?
Paving 
Start Date:
3/16/2023 Total phase:
5
Start Date:
3/22/2023
4
Cement and Mortar Mixers
9
0.56
6
5
6
605
1
Pavers
130
0.42
7
5
7
1911
Paving Equipment
132
0.36
0
0
1
Rollers
80
0.38
7
5
7
1064
1
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
97
0.37
7
5
7
1256
Other Equipment?
Additional Phases
Start Date:
Total phase:
Start Date:
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
#DIV/0!
0
Equipment types listed in "Equipment Types" worksheet tab.
Equipment listed in this sheet is to provide an example of inputs
Complete one sheet for each project component
It is assumed that water trucks would be used during grading
Add or subtract phases and equipment, as appropriate
Modify horsepower or load factor, as appropriate
Complete ALL Portions in Yellow
Asphalt? ___ cubic yards or ____ round trips?

--- page 332 ---
Unmitigated
ROG
NOX
PM10 Exhaust
PM2.5 Exhaust 
CO2e 
Year
MT
2022
0.23
0.41
0.02
0.02
63.06
2022
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.00
21.21
2022
0.23
0.44
0.02
0.02
84.27
Tons
0.23
0.44
0.02
0.02
84.27
Pounds/Workdays
2022
3.81
7.23
0.37
0.33
123
Threshold ‐ lbs/day
54.0
54.0
82.0
54.0
Pounds
3.81
7.23
0.37
0.33
0.00
Average
3.81
7.23
0.37
0.33
0.00
123.00
Threshold ‐ lbs/day
54.0
54.0
82.0
54.0
Unmitigated
ROG
NOX
Total PM10
Total PM2.5
Year
Total
0.21
0.05
0.12
0.03
Total
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Tons/year
0.21
0.05
0.12
0.03
Threshold ‐ Tons/year
10.0
10.0
15.0
10.0
Pounds Per Day
1.16
0.30
0.65
0.17
Threshold ‐ lbs/day
54.0
54.0
82.0
54.0
Category 
Project 
Existing
Project 2030
Existing
Area
0.22
0.00
0.22
0.00
Energy
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Mobile
120.33
0.00
109.89
0.00
Waste
6.34
0.00
6.34
0.00
Water
1.23
0.00
1.23
0.00
TOTAL
128.12
0.00
117.67
0.00
Net GHG Emissions
128.12
117.67
Service Population 
36.00
Per Capita Emissions
3.56
3.27
CO2e
Tons
Total Construction Emissions 
Average Daily Emissions 
Construction Criteria Air Pollutants
Operational Criteria Air Pollutants
Tons
Existing Use Emissions 
Total Construction Emissions 
Net Annual Operational Emissions 
Average Daily Emissions 
EMFAC
Construction Equipment
Total Construction Emissions by Year
Workdays

--- page 333 ---
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Applicant provided equipment info
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
0
1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data
Project Characteristics - 
Land Use - Applicant provided unit amounts, acreage, and square footage
Construction Phase - CalEEMod defaults used.
CO2 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
CH4 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
N2O Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
Climate Zone
5
Operational Year
2024
Utility Company
Peninsula Clean Energy
51
1.2 Other Project Characteristics
Urbanization
Urban
Wind Speed (m/s)
2.2
Precipitation Freq (Days)
70
Apartments Mid Rise
18.00
Dwelling Unit
0.29
23,190.00
0
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
22.00
Space
0.00
9,510.00
0
General Office Building
4.65
1000sqft
0.00
4,650.00
21-051 1 Hayward Ave
San Mateo County, Annual
1.0 Project Characteristics
1.1 Land Usage
Land Uses
Size
Metric
Lot Acreage
Floor Surface Area
Population
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied

--- page 334 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
8.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
4.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstDustMitigation
WaterUnpavedRoadVehicleSpeed
0
15
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
4.00
Fleet Mix - Fleet mix from EMFAC2021
Energy Use - San Mateo has nat gas reach code
Table Name
Column Name
Default Value
New Value
Vehicle Trips - Weekday general office building trip rate provided by AECOM traffic study
Vehicle Emission Factors - Emission factors from EMFAC2021
Woodstoves - No hearths
Water And Wastewater - 100% aerobic
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - All equipment t4i, BMP
Trips and VMT - All trips entered into EMFAC2021
Demolition - 
Grading -

--- page 335 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.23
0.27
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.23
0.27
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.07
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.07
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.47
0.46
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.07
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.47
0.46
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.47
0.46
tblFleetMix
HHD
2.1250e-003
2.5990e-003
tblFleetMix
HHD
2.1250e-003
2.5990e-003
tblFireplaces
NumberWood
3.06
0.00
tblFleetMix
HHD
2.1250e-003
2.5990e-003
tblFireplaces
NumberGas
2.70
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberNoFireplace
0.72
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceHourDay
3.50
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceWoodMass
228.80
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
18.14
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceDayYear
11.14
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24E
3.66
3.67
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
5,828.01
0.00
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
1.01
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24E
90.83
96.49
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
2,615.00
0.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim

--- page 336 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblGrading
MaterialExported
0.00
1,000.00
tblFleetMix
UBUS
5.9100e-004
7.6900e-004
tblFleetMix
UBUS
5.9100e-004
7.6900e-004
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.3400e-004
4.2300e-004
tblFleetMix
UBUS
5.9100e-004
7.6900e-004
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.3400e-004
4.2300e-004
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.3400e-004
4.2300e-004
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.4690e-003
2.3350e-003
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.4690e-003
2.3350e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.8710e-003
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.4690e-003
2.3350e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.8710e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.8710e-003
tblFleetMix
MH
2.6010e-003
2.0180e-003
tblFleetMix
MH
2.6010e-003
2.0180e-003
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.14
0.15
tblFleetMix
MH
2.6010e-003
2.0180e-003
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.14
0.15
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.14
0.15
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
LHD2
6.2330e-003
6.0580e-003
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
LHD2
6.2330e-003
6.0580e-003
tblFleetMix
LHD2
6.2330e-003
6.0580e-003
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.23
0.27
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03

--- page 337 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
1.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.30
4.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.15
0.13
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.26
0.29
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1,618.63
1,785.76
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.26
0.29
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
944.14
782.39
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.25
4.67
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.93
1.67
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.17
0.26
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
1.0000e-006
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
4.00
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.27
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
18.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
18.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
8.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
5.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
10.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
5.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
125.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
VendorTripNumber
4.00
0.00
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
1.00
4.00
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
31.00
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.20
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.47
0.29
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
18,000.00
23,190.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.11
0.00
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
8,800.00
9,510.00

--- page 338 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.5500e-003
1.8160e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
8.7000e-005
1.6760e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.6000e-005
3.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.21
0.30
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.8800e-004
2.1400e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.42
0.59
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
4.0000e-006
7.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.4000e-005
3.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
8.4280e-003
6.5500e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
8.7000e-005
1.6760e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.36
0.29
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
4.0000e-006
7.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.8800e-004
2.1400e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.0000e-006
4.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
8.7110e-003
8.6250e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.0000e-006
5.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.7860e-003
3.1010e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.9570e-003
3.2460e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.06
0.09
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.11
2.65
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.39
2.71

--- page 339 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.19
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.21
0.32
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDA
8.5530e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.25
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.08
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LDA
2.2860e-003
2.4390e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
4.8700e-004
6.3400e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.19
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.19
0.29
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDA
5.8840e-003
7.0240e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.25
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.08
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.1510e-003
1.0720e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.5380e-003
1.8200e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.6730e-003
1.9790e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
2.2480e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.04
6.4230e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.2500e-003
1.1640e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.16
0.23
tblVehicleEF
LDA
3.7240e-003
3.8360e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDA
231.09
246.71
tblVehicleEF
LDA
49.25
64.18
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.49
0.57
tblVehicleEF
LDA
2.11
2.92
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.04
0.06

--- page 340 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.06
0.38
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.01
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
0.46
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.10
0.13
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
2.6860e-003
3.1470e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
5.7300e-004
8.2300e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.06
0.38
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.22
0.46
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
0.46
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.10
0.13
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.3930e-003
1.5480e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.8300e-003
2.4220e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.9900e-003
2.6340e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.02
2.8130e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
8.0370e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.5140e-003
1.6830e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.05
0.10
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.18
0.34
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
4.5100e-003
7.5870e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
271.39
318.31
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
57.89
83.21
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.64
1.09
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
2.21
4.62
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
2.4400e-003
4.7080e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.05
0.09

--- page 341 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.19
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
2.8210e-003
3.2370e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
6.0700e-004
8.2100e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.05
0.15
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.24
0.32
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
8.2710e-003
8.0290e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.19
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.2470e-003
1.1500e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.5990e-003
1.8550e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.7390e-003
2.0170e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.02
2.6930e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
7.6930e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.3550e-003
1.2500e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.21
0.27
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
4.5260e-003
4.6930e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
285.14
327.47
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
61.30
83.04
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.59
0.64
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
2.61
3.21
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
2.1380e-003
2.1100e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.05
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.24
0.51

--- page 342 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.05
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
2.1200e-004
1.6700e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
1.1350e-003
0.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
2.4430e-003
2.3210e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.0200e-003
8.7890e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.0000e-004
5.8400e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.3860e-003
9.2260e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
2.3100e-004
1.8200e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.08
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
9.7710e-003
9.2850e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.27
0.41
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.3600e-004
6.1000e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.05
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.39
0.40
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
11.40
19.31
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.2200e-004
5.7700e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.66
8.42
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
766.61
763.92
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.54
0.73
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
1.00
2.42
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.18
0.20
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
4.8690e-003
5.3230e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
6.2330e-003
5.7120e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.05
0.15
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.26
0.35

--- page 343 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.08
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.43
0.53
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.07
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
7.75
10.45
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.6540e-003
1.5600e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
13.42
13.16
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
742.79
804.88
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.47
0.46
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.59
1.37
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.5810e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.14
0.15
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
3.0260e-003
3.1050e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
5.6680e-003
5.3750e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.15
0.13
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.06
0.11
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.2100e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.09
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.05
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
1.1300e-004
1.9100e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
1.1350e-003
0.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.4000e-005
8.2000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.4860e-003
7.4700e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.15
0.13
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.06
0.10
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.2100e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.02
0.02

--- page 344 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.33
0.15
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.08
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.04
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
3.9800e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.11
0.10
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.03
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
7.7000e-005
1.0300e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.1800e-004
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.2800e-004
1.2600e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
7.1760e-003
7.7600e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.08
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.03
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
3.9800e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.09
0.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.03
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.1500e-004
8.4000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.1800e-004
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
2.6840e-003
2.6480e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.3360e-003
1.2520e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.04
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.2500e-004
9.1000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.09
0.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.16
0.24
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.3960e-003
1.3090e-003

--- page 345 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.42
3.71
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.11
1.39
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.36
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.72
1.13
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.61
0.08
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.52
3.55
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.1060e-003
1.8480e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
5.9400e-004
4.5600e-004
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.42
3.71
tblVehicleEF
MCY
1.94
1.28
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.36
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.18
0.93
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.61
3.28
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.52
3.55
tblVehicleEF
MCY
1.9920e-003
1.8810e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.9110e-003
3.4820e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
3.1040e-003
3.7080e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
5.0400e-003
4.2000e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.1340e-003
2.0120e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
1.15
0.52
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.27
0.13
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.07
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.02
7.5490e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
212.87
186.93
tblVehicleEF
MCY
60.07
46.09
tblVehicleEF
MCY
18.49
11.05
tblVehicleEF
MCY
9.24
7.75
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.26
0.17

--- page 346 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.05
0.17
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.22
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MDV
3.3860e-003
3.8780e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
7.1900e-004
9.7800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.05
0.17
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.27
0.38
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MDV
8.7520e-003
9.6890e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.22
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.2750e-003
1.1700e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.6260e-003
1.8980e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.7680e-003
2.0650e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.02
2.7040e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
7.7260e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.3830e-003
1.2700e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.23
0.32
tblVehicleEF
MDV
5.9130e-003
5.7940e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MDV
342.68
392.51
tblVehicleEF
MDV
72.68
98.90
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.58
0.66
tblVehicleEF
MDV
2.74
3.34
tblVehicleEF
MDV
2.2040e-003
2.4060e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.06
0.08

--- page 347 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.28
24.03
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.03
6.71
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
1.6900e-004
2.1600e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
6.6690e-003
0.16
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.08
0.11
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.12
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.04
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.28
24.03
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.03
6.71
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.2900e-004
2.8600e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
3.2780e-003
3.3220e-003
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.4900e-004
3.1100e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.13
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.95
1.21
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.23
0.28
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.05
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MH
1,447.76
1,669.61
tblVehicleEF
MH
17.04
21.87
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.49
0.86
tblVehicleEF
MH
1.85
2.40
tblVehicleEF
MH
6.1010e-003
9.3180e-003
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.30
0.42

--- page 348 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
7.1450e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.1200e-004
1.2400e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.8800e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
5.8790e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.2100e-004
1.3500e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.6800e-004
2.1070e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.13
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MHD
6.1520e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.65
1.32
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.8000e-004
2.2030e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.35
0.86
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.29
1.10
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.13
0.15
tblVehicleEF
MHD
8.2440e-003
8.1870e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.92
10.76
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.0030e-003
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
63.54
150.10
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1,063.89
1,267.25
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.22
0.40
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.12
1.33
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.9120e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.39
0.67
tblVehicleEF
MHD
3.9480e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.6080e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MH
6.6690e-003
0.16
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.09
0.12
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.12
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.05
0.08

--- page 349 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.43
0.40
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.48
0.74
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.14
0.17
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
13.17
9.70
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
102.35
89.99
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1,307.86
1,316.74
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.34
0.23
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.52
1.10
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.61
0.48
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
6.6710e-003
6.4170e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
2.8040e-003
6.4430e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.06
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.8700e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
7.1450e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.8000e-005
1.0600e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.8800e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MHD
6.0300e-004
1.3930e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.05
0.06
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.8700e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.03

--- page 350 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
9.5380e-003
8.3560e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.10
0.09
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
9.3480e-003
0.08
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.03
0.04
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.08
0.06
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
4.0400e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
8.3470e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.06
0.04
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.3000e-004
9.6000e-005
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
7.8300e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
9.7100e-004
8.4900e-004
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.03
0.04
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.07
0.05
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
4.0400e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
8.3470e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.05
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.3200e-004
9.2000e-005
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
7.8300e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
7.2290e-003
8.0830e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.4400e-004
1.0000e-004
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.3200e-004
2.2700e-004
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.13
0.05
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
7.5690e-003
8.4550e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.21
1.13
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.3800e-004
2.3700e-004

--- page 351 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.05
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.9600e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.10
0.08
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
7.7700e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.44
0.26
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.0800e-004
6.9000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
6.1300e-004
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.5480e-003
2.5240e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.02
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.6530e-003
1.4510e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.32
0.02
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.03
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.1800e-004
7.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.74
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.70
0.46
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.8180e-003
1.5180e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.26
1.43
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
4.48
2.76
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.11
0.11
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
7.4410e-003
5.4090e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
7.49
5.80
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.05
0.03
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
365.45
203.37
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
990.47
973.16
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.86
1.50
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.46
1.21
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.67
2.26

--- page 352 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.3200e-004
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.7760e-003
4.4790e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.9000e-005
2.1000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
7.8010e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.9940e-003
4.6870e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.3000e-005
2.2000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.08
0.14
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.69
0.25
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.10
0.07
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.26
0.16
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
7.2150e-003
9.6970e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1,603.68
1,063.17
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
9.21
5.61
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
11.42
6.29
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.83
0.86
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.52
0.55
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.01
6.4790e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.06
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.9600e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.12
0.18
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
7.7700e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.64
0.41
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
7.4000e-005
5.7000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
6.1300e-004
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.4950e-003
1.8640e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
9.5210e-003
9.1220e-003

--- page 353 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
2.0 Emissions Summary
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveDayYear
14.12
0.00
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveWoodMass
582.40
0.00
tblWoodstoves
NumberCatalytic
0.36
0.00
tblWoodstoves
NumberNoncatalytic
0.36
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
9.74
16.19
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
3.6080e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.07
0.03
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.1000e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.55
0.61
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.3200e-004
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
9.6610e-003
6.9710e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.01
8.5370e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
9.1000e-005
5.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
3.6080e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.1000e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.02
0.05
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
9.6610e-003
6.9710e-003

--- page 354 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
Total CO2
CH4
N20
CO2e
0.0102
0.0000
33.8916
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2
6.2000e-
004
2.0200e-003
0.0000
33.6377
33.6377
3.8000e-004
4.0300e-
003
6.2000e-
004
4.6500e-003
1.4000e-
003
Maximum
0.1962
0.1485
0.2640
28.9531
28.9531
8.6200e-
003
0.0000
29.1684
0.0102
0.0000
33.8916
2023
0.1962
0.1281
0.2267
3.3000e-004
0.0000
5.2000e-
004
5.2000e-004
0.0000
5.2000e-
004
5.2000e-004
0.0000
6.2000e-
004
2.0200e-003
0.0000
33.6377
33.6377
3.8000e-004
4.0300e-
003
6.2000e-
004
4.6500e-003
1.4000e-
003
2022
7.8500e-
003
0.1485
0.2640
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
0.0102
0.0000
33.8917
Mitigated Construction
0.0113
0.0144
0.0000
33.6378
33.6378
3.8000e-004
8.9600e-
003
0.0122
0.0211
3.1100e-
003
Maximum
0.2081
0.2337
0.2367
28.9531
28.9531
8.6200e-
003
0.0000
29.1685
0.0102
0.0000
33.8917
2023
0.2081
0.1808
0.2060
3.3000e-004
0.0000
9.0500e-
003
9.0500e-003
0.0000
8.4000e-
003
8.4000e-003
0.0000
0.0113
0.0144
0.0000
33.6378
33.6378
3.8000e-004
8.9600e-
003
0.0122
0.0211
3.1100e-
003
2022
0.0231
0.2337
0.2367
N2O
CO2e
Year
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
2.1 Overall Construction
Unmitigated Construction
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5

--- page 355 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
Mitigated Operational
118.9320
122.1970
0.1599
6.4500e-003
128.1164
2.4300e-
003
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Total
0.2108
0.0539
0.6621
1.3000e-003
0.1167
1.5500e-
003
0.1183
0.0291
1.4900e-
003
0.0306
3.2650
0.0000
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.0000
Water
0.0000
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
6.1100e-
003
4.9100e-003
120.3292
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.5577
7.5000e-
004
0.0298
0.0000
118.7132
118.7132
1.2900e-003
0.1167
8.1000e-
004
0.1175
0.0291
Mobile
0.0785
0.0524
0.5283
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Area
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
2.2 Overall Operational
Unmitigated Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
Highest
0.3834
0.3205
2
1-3-2023
4-2-2023
0.3834
0.3205
1
10-3-2022
1-2-2023
0.2568
0.1562
Quarter
Start Date
End Date
Maximum Unmitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
Maximum Mitigated ROG + NOX (tons/quarter)
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Percent 
Reduction
11.77
33.26
-10.83
0.00
55.02
94.63
82.88
54.98
94.20
88.84
0.00

--- page 356 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
5
5
7
Architectural Coating
Architectural Coating
3/16/2023
3/22/2023
5
5
6
Paving
Paving
3/9/2023
3/15/2023
5
2
5
Building Construction
Building Construction
10/20/2022
3/8/2023
5
100
4
Trenching
Trenching
10/18/2022
10/19/2022
5
1
3
Grading
Grading
10/18/2022
10/19/2022
5
2
2
Site Preparation
Site Preparation
10/15/2022
10/17/2022
Num Days 
Week
Num Days
Phase Description
1
Demolition
Demolition
10/3/2022
10/14/2022
5
10
Phase 
Number
Phase Name
Phase Type
Start Date
End Date
0.00
0.00
0.00
3.0 Construction Detail
Construction Phase
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
118.9320
122.1970
0.1599
6.4500e-003
128.1164
2.4300e-
003
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Total
0.2108
0.0539
0.6621
1.3000e-003
0.1167
1.5500e-
003
0.1183
0.0291
1.4900e-
003
0.0306
3.2650
0.0000
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.0000
Water
0.0000
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
6.1100e-
003
4.9100e-003
120.3292
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.5577
7.5000e-
004
0.0298
0.0000
118.7132
118.7132
1.2900e-003
0.1167
8.1000e-
004
0.1175
0.0291
Mobile
0.0785
0.0524
0.5283
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Area
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5

--- page 357 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.48
Trips and VMT
Architectural Coating
Air Compressors
4
6.00
78
0.38
Paving
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
7.00
97
0.37
Paving
Rollers
1
7.00
80
0.56
Paving
Pavers
1
7.00
130
0.42
Paving
Cement and Mortar Mixers
4
6.00
9
0.20
Building Construction
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
2
8.00
97
0.37
Building Construction
Forklifts
2
6.00
89
0.37
Building Construction
Cranes
1
4.00
231
0.29
Trenching
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Trenching
Excavators
1
8.00
158
0.38
Grading
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
7.00
97
0.41
Grading
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
6.00
247
0.40
Grading
Graders
1
6.00
187
0.41
Site Preparation
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
1
8.00
97
0.37
Site Preparation
Graders
1
8.00
187
0.40
Demolition
Tractors/Loaders/Backhoes
2
6.00
97
0.37
Demolition
Rubber Tired Dozers
1
1.00
247
Load Factor
Demolition
Concrete/Industrial Saws
1
8.00
81
0.73
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment Type
Amount
Usage Hours
Horse Power
Acres of Grading (Site Preparation Phase): 0.5
Acres of Grading (Grading Phase): 1.5
Acres of Paving: 0
Residential Indoor: 46,960; Residential Outdoor: 15,653; Non-Residential Indoor: 6,975; Non-Residential Outdoor: 2,325; Striped Parking Area: 571 
OffRoad Equipment

--- page 358 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
9.6000e-
004
0.0000
5.2308
1.6100e-
003
2.1100e-003
0.0000
5.2068
5.2068
6.0000e-005
3.3200e-
003
1.6900e-
003
5.0100e-003
5.0000e-
004
Total
3.5500e-
003
0.0321
0.0374
5.2068
5.2068
9.6000e-
004
0.0000
5.2308
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
3.5500e-
003
0.0321
0.0374
6.0000e-005
1.6900e-
003
1.6900e-003
1.6100e-
003
1.6100e-003
0.0000
0.0000
5.0000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
3.3200e-
003
0.0000
3.3200e-003
5.0000e-
004
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
3.1 Mitigation Measures Construction
Use Cleaner Engines for Construction Equipment
Water Exposed Area
Reduce Vehicle Speed on Unpaved Roads
3.2 Demolition - 2022
HHDT
Architectural Coating
4
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
Paving
7
0.00
0.00
0.00
HHDT
Building Construction
5
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
Trenching
2
0.00
0.00
0.00
HHDT
Grading
3
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
Site Preparation
2
0.00
0.00
0.00
Hauling Vehicle
Class
Demolition
4
0.00
0.00
0.00
10.80
7.30
20.00 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
Phase Name
Offroad Equipment 
Count
Worker Trip 
Number
Vendor Trip 
Number
Hauling Trip 
Number
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length
Hauling Trip 
Length
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor Vehicle 
Class

--- page 359 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
9.6000e-
004
0.0000
5.2308
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
9.0000e-
005
3.2000e-004
0.0000
5.2068
5.2068
6.0000e-005
1.5000e-
003
9.0000e-
005
1.5900e-003
2.3000e-
004
Total
1.1800e-
003
0.0227
0.0397
5.2068
5.2068
9.6000e-
004
0.0000
5.2308
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
1.1800e-
003
0.0227
0.0397
6.0000e-005
9.0000e-
005
9.0000e-005
9.0000e-
005
9.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
2.3000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.5000e-
003
0.0000
1.5000e-003
2.3000e-
004
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site

--- page 360 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
1.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.4310
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
1.2000e-
004
1.5000e-004
0.0000
0.4275
0.4275
0.0000
2.7000e-
004
1.3000e-
004
4.0000e-004
3.0000e-
005
Total
2.9000e-
004
3.4700e-
003
1.9800e-003
0.4275
0.4275
1.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.4310
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
2.9000e-
004
3.4700e-
003
1.9800e-003
0.0000
1.3000e-
004
1.3000e-004
1.2000e-
004
1.2000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
3.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.7000e-
004
0.0000
2.7000e-004
3.0000e-
005
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.3 Site Preparation - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 361 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
1.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.4310
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
1.0000e-
005
2.0000e-005
0.0000
0.4275
0.4275
0.0000
1.2000e-
004
1.0000e-
005
1.3000e-004
1.0000e-
005
Total
9.0000e-
005
1.5500e-
003
2.9300e-003
0.4275
0.4275
1.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.4310
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
9.0000e-
005
1.5500e-
003
2.9300e-003
0.0000
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
1.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
1.2000e-
004
0.0000
1.2000e-004
1.0000e-
005
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 362 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
4.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.2482
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
4.8000e-
004
3.0600e-003
0.0000
1.2381
1.2381
1.0000e-005
5.3700e-
003
5.2000e-
004
5.8900e-003
2.5800e-
003
Total
1.0800e-
003
0.0120
5.9400e-003
1.2381
1.2381
4.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.2482
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
1.0800e-
003
0.0120
5.9400e-003 1.0000e-005
5.2000e-
004
5.2000e-004
4.8000e-
004
4.8000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
2.5800e-003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
5.3700e-
003
0.0000
5.3700e-003
2.5800e-
003
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.4 Grading - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 363 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
4.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.2482
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
2.0000e-
005
1.1800e-003
0.0000
1.2381
1.2381
1.0000e-005
2.4200e-
003
2.0000e-
005
2.4400e-003
1.1600e-
003
Total
2.5000e-
004
4.1800e-
003
8.0800e-003
1.2381
1.2381
4.0000e-
004
0.0000
1.2482
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
2.5000e-
004
4.1800e-
003
8.0800e-003 1.0000e-005
2.0000e-
005
2.0000e-005
2.0000e-
005
2.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
1.1600e-003
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.4200e-
003
0.0000
2.4200e-003
1.1600e-
003
Fugitive Dust
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 364 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
0.7269
0.7269
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.7328
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.7328
Total
3.7000e-
004
3.4500e-
003
5.4900e-003 1.0000e-005
1.8000e-
004
1.8000e-004
1.6000e-
004
1.6000e-004
0.0000
1.6000e-
004
1.6000e-004
0.0000
0.7269
0.7269
1.0000e-005
1.8000e-
004
1.8000e-004
Off-Road
3.7000e-
004
3.4500e-
003
5.4900e-003
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.5 Trenching - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO

--- page 365 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
N2O
CO2e
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.7269
0.7269
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.7328
2.4000e-
004
0.0000
0.7328
Total
1.3000e-
004
3.6300e-
003
6.2600e-003 1.0000e-005
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
0.0000
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
0.0000
0.7269
0.7269
1.0000e-005
1.0000e-
005
1.0000e-005
Off-Road
1.3000e-
004
3.6300e-
003
6.2600e-003
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5

--- page 366 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
26.0384
26.0384
8.4200e-
003
0.0000
26.2489
8.4200e-
003
0.0000
26.2489
Total
0.0178
0.1827
0.1860
3.0000e-004
9.6700e-
003
9.6700e-003
8.9000e-
003
8.9000e-003
0.0000
8.9000e-
003
8.9000e-003
0.0000
26.0384
26.0384
3.0000e-004
9.6700e-
003
9.6700e-003
Off-Road
0.0178
0.1827
0.1860
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.6 Building Construction - 2022
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr

--- page 367 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
26.0384
26.0384
8.4200e-
003
0.0000
26.2489
8.4200e-
003
0.0000
26.2489
Total
6.2000e-
003
0.1165
0.2070
3.0000e-004
4.8000e-
004
4.8000e-004
4.8000e-
004
4.8000e-004
0.0000
4.8000e-
004
4.8000e-004
0.0000
26.0384
26.0384
3.0000e-004
4.8000e-
004
4.8000e-004
Off-Road
6.2000e-
003
0.1165
0.2070
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 368 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
24.0500
24.0500
7.7800e-
003
0.0000
24.2445
7.7800e-
003
0.0000
24.2445
Total
0.0152
0.1541
0.1703
2.7000e-004
7.6900e-
003
7.6900e-003
7.0700e-
003
7.0700e-003
0.0000
7.0700e-
003
7.0700e-003
0.0000
24.0500
24.0500
2.7000e-004
7.6900e-
003
7.6900e-003
Off-Road
0.0152
0.1541
0.1703
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.6 Building Construction - 2023
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 369 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
24.0500
24.0500
7.7800e-
003
0.0000
24.2445
7.7800e-
003
0.0000
24.2445
Total
5.7200e-
003
0.1075
0.1911
2.7000e-004
4.5000e-
004
4.5000e-004
4.5000e-
004
4.5000e-004
0.0000
4.5000e-
004
4.5000e-004
0.0000
24.0500
24.0500
2.7000e-004
4.5000e-
004
4.5000e-004
Off-Road
5.7200e-
003
0.1075
0.1911
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 370 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
6.8000e-
004
0.0000
2.3669
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
6.2000e-
004
6.2000e-004
0.0000
2.3498
2.3498
3.0000e-005
6.6000e-
004
6.6000e-004
Total
1.5300e-
003
0.0138
0.0176
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
6.8000e-
004
0.0000
2.3669
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
6.2000e-
004
6.2000e-004
0.0000
2.3498
2.3498
3.0000e-005
6.6000e-
004
6.6000e-004
Off-Road
1.5300e-
003
0.0138
0.0176
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.7 Paving - 2023
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 371 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
6.8000e-
004
0.0000
2.3669
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
0.0000
2.3498
2.3498
3.0000e-005
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
Total
4.1000e-
004
0.0100
0.0173
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
6.8000e-
004
0.0000
2.3669
Paving
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
0.0000
2.3498
2.3498
3.0000e-005
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
Off-Road
4.1000e-
004
0.0100
0.0173
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 372 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
1.5000e-
004
0.0000
2.5571
Unmitigated Construction Off-Site
7.1000e-
004
7.1000e-004
0.0000
2.5533
2.5533
3.0000e-005
7.1000e-
004
7.1000e-004
Total
0.1914
0.0130
0.0181
2.5533
2.5533
1.5000e-
004
0.0000
2.5571
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
1.9200e-
003
0.0130
0.0181
3.0000e-005
7.1000e-
004
7.1000e-004
7.1000e-
004
7.1000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Archit. Coating
0.1895
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
3.8 Architectural Coating - 2023
Unmitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 373 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Worker
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Vendor
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hauling
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
1.5000e-
004
0.0000
2.5571
Mitigated Construction Off-Site
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
0.0000
2.5533
2.5533
3.0000e-005
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
Total
0.1900
0.0106
0.0183
2.5533
2.5533
1.5000e-
004
0.0000
2.5571
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Off-Road
5.4000e-
004
0.0106
0.0183
3.0000e-005
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
4.0000e-
005
4.0000e-005
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Archit. Coating
0.1895
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Construction On-Site
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 374 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
348,117
4.3 Trip Type Information
Miles
Trip %
Trip Purpose %
Total
173.20
98.66
76.88
348,117
General Office Building
75.28
10.28
3.26
133,126
133,126
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.00
0.00
0.00
Annual VMT
Apartments Mid Rise
97.92
88.38
73.62
214,991
214,991
Land Use
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Annual VMT
6.1100e-
003
4.9100e-003
120.3292
4.2 Trip Summary Information
Average Daily Trip Rate
Unmitigated
Mitigated
120.3292
Unmitigated
0.0785
0.0524
0.5283
1.2900e-003
0.1167
8.1000e-
004
0.1175
0.0291
7.5000e-
004
0.0298
0.0000
118.7132
118.7132
0.0000
118.7132
118.7132
6.1100e-
003
4.9100e-003
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.0785
0.0524
0.5283
1.2900e-003
0.1167
8.1000e-
004
0.1175
0.0291
7.5000e-
004
0.0298
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 375 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Mitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity Mitigated
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
5.0 Energy Detail
Historical Energy Use: N
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.000423
0.002018
General Office Building
0.462730
0.043835
0.266533
0.152565
0.028158
0.006058
0.008871
0.002599
0.002335
0.000769
0.023106
0.000423
0.002018
0.000769
0.023106
0.000423
0.002018
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.462730
0.043835
0.266533
0.152565
0.028158
0.006058
0.008871
0.002599
0.002335
0.000769
0.023106
0.028158
0.006058
0.008871
0.002599
0.002335
Apartments Mid Rise
0.462730
0.043835
0.266533
0.152565
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
4.4 Fleet Mix
Land Use 
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
48.00
19.00
77
19
4
General Office Building
9.50
7.30
7.30
33.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
9.50
7.30
7.30
0.00
15.00
54.00
86
11
3
Apartments Mid Rise
10.80
4.80
5.70
31.00
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
Primary
Diverted
Pass-by
Land Use
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
H-W or C-W

--- page 376 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Apartments Mid 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
Mitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Apartments Mid 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5

--- page 377 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
56032.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
51734.4
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
70056.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
56032.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
51734.4
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
70056.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Unmitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity

--- page 378 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.1093
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0190
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated
0.2241
Unmitigated
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
0.0000
0.0000
6.0 Area Detail
6.1 Mitigation Measures Area
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Total
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 379 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
7.0 Water Detail
7.1 Mitigation Measures Water
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Total
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
4.0400e-
003
1.5400e-003
0.1338
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.1093
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0190
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
Mitigated
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Total
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1338
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2241
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
4.0400e-
003
1.5400e-003
0.1338
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 380 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Mitigated
Total
0.7073
2.4400e-003
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0.826462 / 
0.506541
0.2924
1.0100e-003 6.4000e-004
0.5071
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
1.17277 / 
0.739357
0.4149
1.4300e-003 9.0000e-004
0.7195
1.2266
7.2 Water by Land Use
Unmitigated
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Unmitigated
0.7073
2.4300e-003
1.5400e-
003
CO2e
Category
t
o
n
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.7073
2.4300e-003
1.5400e-
003
1.2266
Total CO2
CH4
N2O

--- page 381 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
6.3366
8.2 Waste by Land Use
 Unmitigated
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
CO2e
t
o
n
MT/yr
 Mitigated
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
1.5400e-003
1.2266
8.0 Waste Detail
8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste
Category/Year
Total
0.7073
2.4400e-003
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0.826462 / 
0.506541
0.2924
1.0100e-003 6.4000e-004
0.5071
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
1.17277 / 
0.739357
0.4149
1.4300e-003 9.0000e-004
0.7195
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 382 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
6.3366
Total
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
4.32
0.8769
0.0518
0.0000
2.1725
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
8.28
1.6808
0.0993
0.0000
4.1640
0.0000
6.3366
Mitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
4.32
0.8769
0.0518
0.0000
2.1725
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
8.28
1.6808
0.0993
0.0000
4.1640
Unmitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 383 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:23 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
User Defined Equipment
Equipment Type
Number
11.0 Vegetation
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
Boilers
Equipment Type
Number
Heat Input/Day
Heat Input/Year
Boiler Rating
Fuel Type
Fire Pumps and Emergency Generators
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Hours/Year
Days/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
10.0 Stationary Equipment
9.0 Operational Offroad
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day

--- page 384 ---
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Applicant provided equipment info
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
Off-road Equipment - Default equipment information assumed
0
1.3 User Entered Comments & Non-Default Data
Project Characteristics - 
Land Use - Applicant provided unit amounts, acreage, and square footage
Construction Phase - CalEEMod defaults used.
CO2 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
CH4 Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
0
N2O Intensity 
(lb/MWhr)
Climate Zone
5
Operational Year
2030
Utility Company
Peninsula Clean Energy
51
1.2 Other Project Characteristics
Urbanization
Urban
Wind Speed (m/s)
2.2
Precipitation Freq (Days)
70
Apartments Mid Rise
18.00
Dwelling Unit
0.29
23,190.00
0
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
22.00
Space
0.00
9,510.00
0
General Office Building
4.65
1000sqft
0.00
4,650.00
21-051 1 Hayward Ave
San Mateo County, Annual
1.0 Project Characteristics
1.1 Land Usage
Land Uses
Size
Metric
Lot Acreage
Floor Surface Area
Population
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied

--- page 385 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
8.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
2.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
4.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
1.00
tblConstDustMitigation
WaterUnpavedRoadVehicleSpeed
0
15
tblConstEquipMitigation
NumberOfEquipmentMitigated
0.00
4.00
Fleet Mix - Fleet mix from EMFAC2021
Energy Use - San mateo nat gas reach code.
Table Name
Column Name
Default Value
New Value
Vehicle Trips - Weekday general office building trip rate provided by AECOM traffic study
Vehicle Emission Factors - Emission factors from EMFAC2021
Woodstoves - No hearths
Water And Wastewater - 100% aerobic
Construction Off-road Equipment Mitigation - All equipment t4i, BMP
Trips and VMT - All trips entered into EMFAC2021
Demolition - 
Grading -

--- page 386 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.25
0.31
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.25
0.31
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.08
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDT2
0.25
0.31
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.08
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDT1
0.08
0.04
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.43
0.39
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.43
0.39
tblFleetMix
HHD
1.7910e-003
2.3620e-003
tblFleetMix
LDA
0.43
0.39
tblFleetMix
HHD
1.7910e-003
2.3620e-003
tblFleetMix
HHD
1.7910e-003
2.3620e-003
tblFireplaces
NumberNoFireplace
0.72
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberWood
3.06
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceWoodMass
228.80
0.00
tblFireplaces
NumberGas
2.70
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceDayYear
11.14
0.00
tblFireplaces
FireplaceHourDay
3.50
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
5,828.01
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24NG
18.14
0.00
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
1.01
0.00
tblEnergyUse
T24E
90.83
96.49
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblEnergyUse
NT24NG
2,615.00
0.00
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim
tblConstEquipMitigation
Tier
No Change
Tier 4 Interim

--- page 387 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
8,800.00
9,510.00
tblFleetMix
UBUS
4.9600e-004
6.4500e-004
tblGrading
MaterialExported
0.00
1,000.00
tblFleetMix
UBUS
4.9600e-004
6.4500e-004
tblFleetMix
UBUS
4.9600e-004
6.4500e-004
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.2100e-004
3.9400e-004
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.2100e-004
3.9400e-004
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.3500e-003
2.2040e-003
tblFleetMix
SBUS
4.2100e-004
3.9400e-004
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.3500e-003
2.2040e-003
tblFleetMix
OBUS
1.3500e-003
2.2040e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.2620e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.2620e-003
tblFleetMix
MH
2.9170e-003
2.1460e-003
tblFleetMix
MHD
0.01
8.2620e-003
tblFleetMix
MH
2.9170e-003
2.1460e-003
tblFleetMix
MH
2.9170e-003
2.1460e-003
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.16
0.18
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.16
0.18
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
MDV
0.16
0.18
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
MCY
0.03
0.02
tblFleetMix
LHD2
7.1360e-003
7.4140e-003
tblFleetMix
LHD2
7.1360e-003
7.4140e-003
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblFleetMix
LHD2
7.1360e-003
7.4140e-003
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblFleetMix
LHD1
0.03
0.03

--- page 388 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.01
3.57
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.73
1.87
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.23
0.24
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.35
0.20
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.14
0.11
tblVehicleEF
HHD
860.08
692.39
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1,405.74
1,514.61
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.06
1.44
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.04
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.46
4.57
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.04
0.23
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.19
0.18
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
18.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
4.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
5.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
18.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
5.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
8.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
VendorTripNumber
4.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
WorkerTripNumber
10.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
31.00
0.00
tblTripsAndVMT
HaulingTripNumber
125.00
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.47
0.29
tblOffRoadEquipment
OffRoadEquipmentUnitAmount
1.00
4.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.11
0.00
tblLandUse
LotAcreage
0.20
0.00
tblLandUse
LandUseSquareFeet
18,000.00
23,190.00

--- page 389 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDA
8.5200e-004
1.0910e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.5200e-004
3.9100e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.6000e-005
2.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.23
0.21
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.2200e-004
6.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.43
0.53
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
2.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
6.0000e-006
2.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
7.5950e-003
5.6170e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.5200e-004
3.9100e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
1.4000e-005
2.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
5.0000e-006
0.00
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.2200e-004
6.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.36
0.27
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
2.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
6.0000e-006
2.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
HHD
8.7570e-003
8.6350e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.6200e-003
1.9850e-003
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
HHD
3.0000e-006
2.0000e-006
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.06
0.09
tblVehicleEF
HHD
0.04
0.03
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.40
2.65
tblVehicleEF
HHD
2.7380e-003
2.0820e-003

--- page 390 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.16
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.13
0.22
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDA
4.2480e-003
5.6170e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.21
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.06
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.9570e-003
2.1560e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
4.1500e-004
5.5700e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.16
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.12
0.20
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDA
2.9250e-003
3.8520e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.21
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.06
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LDA
7.9200e-004
7.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.1300e-003
1.3530e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.2290e-003
1.4710e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
2.2210e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.04
6.3460e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
8.6000e-004
8.0000e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.12
0.18
tblVehicleEF
LDA
2.9620e-003
2.8890e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LDA
197.85
218.14
tblVehicleEF
LDA
41.93
56.38
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.38
0.43
tblVehicleEF
LDA
1.70
2.12
tblVehicleEF
LDA
0.03
0.04

--- page 391 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.05
0.24
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
6.4520e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.31
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.07
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
2.3360e-003
2.8230e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
4.9600e-004
7.1700e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.05
0.24
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.13
0.27
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
4.4220e-003
9.0470e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.31
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.07
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
9.1100e-004
9.5500e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.2790e-003
1.6230e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.3910e-003
1.7650e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.02
2.7870e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.04
7.9630e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
9.9000e-004
1.0380e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.14
0.23
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
3.1790e-003
4.5000e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
236.05
285.53
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
50.08
72.58
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.44
0.66
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.81
2.84
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
1.1990e-003
2.2150e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.03
0.06

--- page 392 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
6.9400e-003
7.4940e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.16
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.06
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
2.3850e-003
2.9270e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
5.0900e-004
7.3300e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.05
0.12
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.16
0.22
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
4.7820e-003
5.1450e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.16
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.06
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
9.0400e-004
8.1200e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.2080e-003
1.3780e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.3140e-003
1.4990e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.02
2.7180e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
7.7670e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
9.8200e-004
8.8300e-004
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.15
0.21
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
3.4280e-003
3.6740e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
241.10
296.13
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
51.42
74.14
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.47
0.52
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
2.22
2.46
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
1.3110e-003
1.4510e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.04
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LDT1
0.14
0.29

--- page 393 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
1.8500e-004
9.6000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.5500e-004
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
2.4740e-003
2.3160e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
5.5970e-003
6.3310e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.7600e-004
5.9000e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
5.8960e-003
6.6480e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
2.0100e-004
1.0400e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.08
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
9.8940e-003
9.2640e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.20
0.30
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
9.1600e-004
6.1700e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.18
0.18
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
9.94
16.36
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.0800e-004
5.3200e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.08
7.48
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
689.79
647.78
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.40
0.47
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.86
2.16
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.3910e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.18
0.18
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
3.9860e-003
4.1000e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
4.4850e-003
2.8900e-003
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.05
0.12
tblVehicleEF
LDT2
0.17
0.24

--- page 394 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.06
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.21
0.28
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.06
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.49
8.64
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.6020e-003
1.5980e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
12.62
12.88
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
670.16
684.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.44
0.32
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.49
1.19
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
4.1310e-003
7.5520e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.13
0.14
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
2.4420e-003
2.3110e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
4.9160e-003
3.5820e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.14
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
5.9000e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.08
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.04
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
9.8000e-005
1.6200e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
8.5500e-004
0.06
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
7.8000e-005
7.3000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
6.7280e-003
6.3250e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.14
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.03
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
5.9000e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.07
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD1
0.02
0.02

--- page 395 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.32
0.13
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.05
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
3.0400e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.11
0.08
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
8.3390e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.4000e-005
8.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
4.2300e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.2100e-004
1.2300e-004
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
6.4670e-003
6.5820e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.05
0.05
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
3.0400e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.09
0.07
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.02
8.3390e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
9.9000e-005
4.6000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
4.2300e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
2.7060e-003
2.6170e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.4100e-003
1.3670e-003
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.04
0.03
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.0700e-004
5.0000e-005
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.09
0.09
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
0.12
0.16
tblVehicleEF
LHD2
1.4740e-003
1.4290e-003

--- page 396 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.39
3.67
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.06
1.12
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.36
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.68
0.98
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.61
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.49
3.54
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.1040e-003
1.8310e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
5.8200e-004
3.9200e-004
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.39
3.67
tblVehicleEF
MCY
1.89
1.03
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.36
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.13
0.79
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.61
2.69
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.49
3.54
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.0680e-003
1.9300e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.8140e-003
3.4020e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
3.0130e-003
3.6390e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
5.0400e-003
4.2000e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MCY
2.2180e-003
2.0690e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
1.14
0.47
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.27
0.09
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.07
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.02
5.5840e-003
tblVehicleEF
MCY
212.58
185.26
tblVehicleEF
MCY
58.78
39.68
tblVehicleEF
MCY
17.76
9.71
tblVehicleEF
MCY
9.39
7.58
tblVehicleEF
MCY
0.25
0.14

--- page 397 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.05
0.13
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MDV
6.5690e-003
7.7170e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.03
0.17
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.07
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MDV
2.8580e-003
3.4850e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
5.9800e-004
8.6800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.05
0.13
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.16
0.24
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MDV
4.5430e-003
5.3030e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.03
0.17
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.07
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MDV
8.8200e-004
7.9000e-004
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.1810e-003
1.3510e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.2840e-003
1.4690e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.02
2.7250e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
7.7870e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
9.5700e-004
8.5800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.15
0.22
tblVehicleEF
MDV
4.5060e-003
4.1700e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MDV
289.25
352.66
tblVehicleEF
MDV
60.44
87.77
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.45
0.52
tblVehicleEF
MDV
2.21
2.46
tblVehicleEF
MDV
1.2400e-003
1.4660e-003
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.04
0.05

--- page 398 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.16
10.82
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
2.82
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
1.4900e-004
1.9700e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.9870e-003
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.07
0.08
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.08
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.03
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.16
10.82
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
2.82
tblVehicleEF
MH
8.6970e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.0500e-004
2.2800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MH
3.2890e-003
3.3360e-003
tblVehicleEF
MH
9.1290e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.2300e-004
2.4800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.13
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.84
1.00
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.22
0.25
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.05
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MH
1,315.39
1,657.15
tblVehicleEF
MH
15.06
19.91
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.22
0.26
tblVehicleEF
MH
1.59
1.85
tblVehicleEF
MH
4.0670e-003
4.8170e-003
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.02
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MDV
0.18
0.26

--- page 399 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
3.9100e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.0400e-004
1.0900e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.1500e-004
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
6.0400e-003
5.1470e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.1300e-004
1.1800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.1100e-004
6.0800e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.13
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MHD
6.3200e-003
5.3910e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.67
1.12
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.1600e-004
6.3600e-004
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.29
0.66
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.31
0.56
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.12
0.13
tblVehicleEF
MHD
8.0480e-003
6.8930e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
8.66
9.48
tblVehicleEF
MHD
7.8550e-003
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
55.53
130.08
tblVehicleEF
MHD
958.82
1,103.52
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.14
0.16
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.87
0.98
tblVehicleEF
MHD
8.5280e-003
9.1350e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.38
0.63
tblVehicleEF
MHD
3.9010e-003
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.3700e-004
9.6240e-003
tblVehicleEF
MH
2.9870e-003
0.07
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.08
0.09
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.08
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MH
0.04
0.05

--- page 400 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.47
0.34
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.49
0.65
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.12
0.16
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
7.5270e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
11.93
7.62
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.02
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
104.99
88.87
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1,195.47
1,192.98
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.22
0.16
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.34
0.83
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
8.2390e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.67
0.50
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
6.7860e-003
6.9140e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.7360e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.05
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.5500e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
3.9100e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
MHD
8.6000e-005
9.4000e-005
tblVehicleEF
MHD
2.1500e-004
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
5.2700e-004
1.1950e-003
tblVehicleEF
MHD
9.1510e-003
0.01
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.03
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.04
0.05
tblVehicleEF
MHD
1.5500e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
MHD
0.02
0.02

--- page 401 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
8.9860e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.16
0.11
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
5.7190e-003
0.07
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.07
0.05
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
3.8500e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.02
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
6.5600e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.06
0.04
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.1800e-004
7.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
6.9700e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
9.9600e-004
8.3400e-004
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.03
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.07
0.04
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
3.8500e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
0.02
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.01
6.5600e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.05
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.3400e-004
7.7000e-005
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
6.9700e-004
0.03
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.06
0.02
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
7.7140e-003
7.2850e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.4600e-004
8.4000e-005
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.4900e-004
1.9800e-004
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
0.13
0.05
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
8.0770e-003
7.6200e-003
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.22
1.02
tblVehicleEF
OBUS
1.5600e-004
2.0700e-004

--- page 402 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.08
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
5.6900e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.06
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.71
0.33
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.7400e-004
8.6000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.0240e-003
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.4240e-003
2.4700e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
6.7620e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.7210e-003
7.2300e-004
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.32
0.02
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
7.0920e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.8900e-004
9.4000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.74
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
9.6950e-003
9.8790e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.99
0.50
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.7990e-003
7.5800e-004
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.28
1.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.37
1.45
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.08
0.09
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
6.2860e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
11.09
6.59
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.04
0.02
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
372.76
200.53
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
883.04
857.53
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.52
0.91
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
2.02
1.22
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
5.81
2.80

--- page 403 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.3500e-004
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.7140e-003
3.7730e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
8.3000e-005
2.3000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
7.8010e-003
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
4.9300e-003
3.9500e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
9.1000e-005
2.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.08
0.16
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.03
0.06
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.67
0.21
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.07
0.04
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.27
0.14
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.7250e-003
6.8380e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1,616.16
954.90
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
7.49
5.22
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
13.25
7.38
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.82
0.83
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.75
0.64
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
8.0630e-003
4.5120e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.02
0.04
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.09
0.06
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
5.6900e-004
0.00
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.07
0.13
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
0.01
0.01
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.03
0.51
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.1000e-004
6.5000e-005
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
1.0240e-003
0.05
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
3.5870e-003
1.8280e-003
tblVehicleEF
SBUS
8.5360e-003
8.0270e-003

--- page 404 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
2.0 Emissions Summary
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveDayYear
14.12
0.00
tblWoodstoves
WoodstoveWoodMass
582.40
0.00
tblWoodstoves
NumberCatalytic
0.36
0.00
tblWoodstoves
NumberNoncatalytic
0.36
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
SepticTankPercent
10.33
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
AnaerobicandFacultativeLagoonsPercent
2.21
0.00
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblVehicleTrips
WD_TR
9.74
16.19
tblWater
AerobicPercent
87.46
100.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.1800e-004
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.04
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
8.4000e-005
0.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.79
0.69
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.3500e-004
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.6730e-003
3.4250e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.01
7.2300e-003
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
7.4000e-005
5.2000e-005
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
5.1800e-004
0.01
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.04
0.02
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
8.4000e-005
0.00
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
0.03
0.05
tblVehicleEF
UBUS
1.6730e-003
3.4250e-003

--- page 405 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Area
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Mitigated Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
108.7569
112.0219
0.1584
5.6800e-003
117.6736
2.4300e-
003
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Total
0.1938
0.0376
0.5549
1.1900e-003
0.1168
1.3200e-
003
0.1181
0.0291
1.2800e-
003
0.0304
3.2650
0.0000
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.0000
Water
0.0000
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
4.6200e-
003
4.1400e-003
109.8864
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.5577
5.4000e-
004
0.0297
0.0000
108.5381
108.5381
1.1800e-003
0.1168
5.8000e-
004
0.1174
0.0291
Mobile
0.0615
0.0360
0.4213
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
Energy
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Area
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
2.2 Overall Operational
Unmitigated Operational
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5

--- page 406 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
348,117
Total
173.20
98.66
76.88
348,117
General Office Building
75.28
10.28
3.26
133,126
133,126
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.00
0.00
0.00
Annual VMT
Apartments Mid Rise
97.92
88.38
73.62
214,991
214,991
Land Use
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Annual VMT
4.6200e-
003
4.1400e-003
109.8864
4.2 Trip Summary Information
Average Daily Trip Rate
Unmitigated
Mitigated
109.8864
Unmitigated
0.0615
0.0360
0.4213
1.1800e-003
0.1168
5.8000e-
004
0.1174
0.0291
5.4000e-
004
0.0297
0.0000
108.5381
108.5381
0.0000
108.5381
108.5381
4.6200e-
003
4.1400e-003
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.0615
0.0360
0.4213
1.1800e-003
0.1168
5.8000e-
004
0.1174
0.0291
5.4000e-
004
0.0297
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
4.0 Operational Detail - Mobile
4.1 Mitigation Measures Mobile
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
0.00
0.00
0.00
N20
CO2e
Percent 
Reduction
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
PM2.5 
Total
Bio- CO2
NBio-CO2
Total CO2
CH4
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
108.7569
112.0219
0.1584
5.6800e-003
117.6736
2.4300e-
003
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Total
0.1938
0.0376
0.5549
1.1900e-003
0.1168
1.3200e-
003
0.1181
0.0291
1.2800e-
003
0.0304
3.2650
0.0000
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.7073
0.0000
0.0000
Water
0.0000
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
4.6200e-
003
4.1400e-003
109.8864
Waste
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
2.5577
5.4000e-
004
0.0297
0.0000
108.5381
108.5381
1.1800e-003
0.1168
5.8000e-
004
0.1174
0.0291
Mobile
0.0615
0.0360
0.4213

--- page 407 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Mitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Electricity Mitigated
N2O
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
5.0 Energy Detail
Historical Energy Use: N
5.1 Mitigation Measures Energy
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
0.000394
0.002146
General Office Building
0.392609
0.040642
0.308969
0.177896
0.031644
0.007414
0.008262
0.002362
0.002204
0.000645
0.024811
0.000394
0.002146
0.000645
0.024811
0.000394
0.002146
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
0.392609
0.040642
0.308969
0.177896
0.031644
0.007414
0.008262
0.002362
0.002204
0.000645
0.024811
0.031644
0.007414
0.008262
0.002362
0.002204
Apartments Mid Rise
0.392609
0.040642
0.308969
0.177896
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
4.4 Fleet Mix
Land Use 
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
48.00
19.00
77
19
4
General Office Building
9.50
7.30
7.30
33.00
0.00
0.00
0
0
0
Enclosed Parking with Elevator
9.50
7.30
7.30
0.00
15.00
54.00
86
11
3
Apartments Mid Rise
10.80
4.80
5.70
31.00
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
Primary
Diverted
Pass-by
Land Use
H-W or C-W
H-S or C-C
H-O or C-NW
H-W or C-W
4.3 Trip Type Information
Miles
Trip %
Trip Purpose %

--- page 408 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Apartments Mid 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
Mitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Apartments Mid 
Rise
0
0.0000
0.0000
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Land Use
kBTU/yr
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
5.2 Energy by Land Use - NaturalGas
Unmitigated
NaturalGa
s Use
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
NaturalGas 
Unmitigated
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 409 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
70056.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Mitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
55986
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
51734.4
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
kWh/yr
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
70056.5
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Unmitigated
Electricity 
Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
5.3 Energy by Land Use - Electricity
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 410 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
6.2 Area by SubCategory
Unmitigated
0.2240
Unmitigated
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
CO2e
Category
tons/yr
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
0.0000
0.0000
6.0 Area Detail
6.1 Mitigation Measures Area
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Total
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
55986
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
51734.4
0.0000
0.0000

--- page 411 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
7.0 Water Detail
7.1 Mitigation Measures Water
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Total
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
4.0100e-
003
1.5400e-003
0.1335
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.1093
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0190
CH4
N2O
CO2e
SubCategory
tons/yr
MT/yr
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 Total
Bio- CO2
NBio- CO2
Total CO2
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
ROG
NOx
CO
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
Mitigated
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.2188
0.2188
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
Total
0.1323
1.5400e-003
0.1335
0.2188
0.2188
2.1000e-
004
0.0000
0.2240
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Landscaping
4.0100e-
003
1.5400e-003
0.1335
1.0000e-005
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
7.4000e-
004
7.4000e-004
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Hearth
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Consumer 
Products
0.1093
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
0.0000
Architectural 
Coating
0.0190

--- page 412 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
1.5400e-003
1.2266
Mitigated
Total
0.7073
2.4400e-003
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0.826462 / 
0.506541
0.2924
1.0100e-003 6.4000e-004
0.5071
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
1.17277 / 
0.739357
0.4149
1.4300e-003 9.0000e-004
0.7195
1.2266
7.2 Water by Land Use
Unmitigated
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Unmitigated
0.7073
2.4300e-003
1.5400e-
003
CO2e
Category
t
o
n
MT/yr
Mitigated
0.7073
2.4300e-003
1.5400e-
003
1.2266
Total CO2
CH4
N2O

--- page 413 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
6.3366
8.2 Waste by Land Use
 Unmitigated
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
CO2e
t
o
n
MT/yr
 Mitigated
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
6.3366
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
1.5400e-003
1.2266
8.0 Waste Detail
8.1 Mitigation Measures Waste
Category/Year
Total
0.7073
2.4400e-003
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
0.826462 / 
0.506541
0.2924
1.0100e-003 6.4000e-004
0.5071
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0 / 0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
Mgal
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
1.17277 / 
0.739357
0.4149
1.4300e-003 9.0000e-004
0.7195
Indoor/Out
door Use
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 414 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
0.0000
6.3366
Total
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
4.32
0.8769
0.0518
0.0000
2.1725
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
8.28
1.6808
0.0993
0.0000
4.1640
0.0000
6.3366
Mitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
Total
2.5577
0.1512
0.0000
0.0000
General Office 
Building
4.32
0.8769
0.0518
0.0000
2.1725
Enclosed Parking 
with Elevator
0
0.0000
0.0000
Land Use
tons
t
o
n
MT/yr
Apartments Mid 
Rise
8.28
1.6808
0.0993
0.0000
4.1640
Unmitigated
Waste 
Disposed
Total CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e

--- page 415 ---
CalEEMod Version: CalEEMod.2020.4.0
Page 1 of 1
Date: 11/4/2021 3:44 PM
21-051 1 Hayward Ave - San Mateo County, Annual
EMFAC Off-Model Adjustment Factors for Gasoline Light Duty Vehicle to Account for the SAFE Vehicle Rule Not Applied
User Defined Equipment
Equipment Type
Number
11.0 Vegetation
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
Boilers
Equipment Type
Number
Heat Input/Day
Heat Input/Year
Boiler Rating
Fuel Type
Fire Pumps and Emergency Generators
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day
Hours/Year
Days/Year
Horse Power
Load Factor
Fuel Type
10.0 Stationary Equipment
9.0 Operational Offroad
Equipment Type
Number
Hours/Day

--- page 416 ---
Attachment 3:  EMFAC2021 Calculations

--- page 417 ---
Pollutants
ROG
NOx
CO
SO2
Fugitive 
PM10
Exhaust 
PM10
PM10 
Total
Fugitive 
PM2.5
Exhaust 
PM2.5
PM2.5 
Total
NBio‐ CO2
CH4
N2O
CO2e
YEAR
2022 & 2023
0.0030
0.0300
0.0404
0.0002
0.0099
0.0016
0.0115
0.0015
0.0007
0.0022
20.4805
0.0020
0.0023
21.2113
2022 & 2023
0.0023
0.0059
0.0130
0.0000
0.0009
0.0001
0.0010
0.0001
0.0001
0.0002
2.1201
0.0004
0.0003
2.2136
Summary of Construction Traffic Emissions (EMFAC2021) 
Tons
Criteria Pollutants
Toxic Air Contaminants (1.0 Mile Trip Length)
Metric Tons

--- page 418 ---
Phase 
CalEEMod 
WORKER 
TRIPS
CalEEMod 
VENDOR 
TRIPS
Total 
Worker 
Trips
Total 
Vendor 
Trips
CalEEMod 
HAULING 
TRIPS
Worker Trip 
Length
Vendor Trip 
Length 
Hauling Trip 
Length 
Worker Vehicle 
Class
Vendor Vehicle 
Class
Hauling Vehicle 
Class
Worker 
VMT
Vendor 
VMT
Hauling 
VMT
Demolition
10
0
100
0
31
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
1080
0
620
Site Preparation
5
0
5
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
54
0
0
Grading
8
0
16
0
125
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
172.8
0
2500
Trenching/Foundation
5
0
10
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
108
0
0
Paving
18
0
90
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
972
0
0
Building Construction
18
4
1800
400
100
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
19440
2920
2000
Architectural Coating
4
0
20
0
0
10.8
7.3
20 LD_Mix
HDT_Mix
HHDT
216
0
0
2022 & 2023
10/3/22
3/22/23
171
123
171
123 Total Workdays
Phase 
Start Date
End Date 
Days/Week Workdays
Demolition
10/3/2022 10/14/2022
5
10
Site Preparation
10/15/2022 10/17/2022
5
1
Grading
10/18/2022 10/19/2022
5
2
Trenching/Foundation
10/18/2022 10/19/2022
5
2
Paving
3/16/2023
3/22/2023
5
5
Building Construction
10/20/2022
3/8/2023
5
100
Architectural Coating
3/9/2023
3/15/2023
5
5
Number of Days Per Year
CalEEMod Construction Inputs

--- page 419 ---
Source: EMFAC2021 (v1.0.1) Emission Rates
Region Type: County
Region: San Mateo
Calendar Year: 2022
Season: Annual
Vehicle Classification: EMFAC2007 Categories
Units:  miles/day for CVMT and EVMT, trips/day for Trips, kWh/day for Energy Consumption, g/mile for RUNEX, PMBW and PMTW, g/trip for STREX, HOTSOAK and RUNLOSS, g/vehicle/day for IDLEX and DIURN
Region
Calendar Y Vehicle CatModel Yea Speed
Fuel
Population Total VMT CVMT
EVMT
Trips
Energy ConNOx_RUNENOx_IDLEXNOx_STREXPM2.5_RU PM2.5_IDL PM2.5_STRPM2.5_PMPM2.5_PMPM10_RUNPM10_IDLEPM10_STR PM10_PMTPM10_PMBCO2_RUNECO2_IDLEXCO2_STREXCH4_RUNECH4_IDLEXCH4_STREXN2O_RUNEN2O_IDLEXN2O_STREXROG_RUNEROG_IDLEXROG_STREXROG_HOTSROG_RUNLROG_DIUR TOG_RUNETOG_IDLEXTOG_STREXTOG_HOTSTOG_RUNLTOG_DIUR NH3_RUNECO_RUNEXCO_IDLEX CO_STREX SOx_RUNE SOx_IDLEX SOx_STREX
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
4.26179 607.5295 607.5295
0
85.26989
0
4.217209
0
0.00281
0.00146
0
0.000935
0.005
0.031258 0.001588
0
0.001017
0.02
0.089308 2276.876
0
54.98009 0.116906
0
0.000119 0.151563
0
0.000135
0.60109
0
0.000644 0.048478 0.400153 3.469663 0.877108
0
0.000705 0.048478 0.400153 3.469663
0.045
33.53367
0
6.080621 0.022509
0
0.000544
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1289.917 118758.5 118758.5
0
13886.59
0
3.367467 50.13908 2.567805 0.026697 0.041054
0
0.00861 0.031515 0.027904
0.04291
0
0.03444 0.090042
1868.7 8522.619
0
0.001942 0.155104
0
0.294414 1.342742
0
0.041821 3.339355
0
0
0
0
0.04761 3.801601
0
0
0
0
0.186789 0.159005 43.82276
0
0.017695 0.080704
0
San Mateo
2022 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 144.1612 9768.638 9768.638
0
950.7524
0
1.845139 10.30429
0
0.002051 0.011217
0
0.009
0.058943
0.00223 0.012199
0
0.036
0.168408 1557.751 8370.006
0
3.666383 25.60841
0
0.317558 1.706281
0
0.087249 0.429393
0
0
0
0
3.781534
26.2076
0
0
0
0
0.734123 18.35301 67.58246
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
240666.4
7995565
7995565
0
1130997
0
0.047702
0
0.275282 0.001241
0
0.002105
0.002
0.002347
0.00135
0
0.002289
0.008
0.006707 282.9533
0
72.26541 0.002546
0
0.077367 0.004869
0
0.033486 0.010142
0
0.368004 0.090257
0.23026 1.365279 0.014797
0
0.402916 0.090257
0.23026 1.365279 0.034582 0.726065
0
3.617602 0.002797
0
0.000714
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
888.5395 22501.88 22501.88
0
3790.786
0
0.240012
0
0
0.015881
0
0
0.002
0.002391 0.016599
0
0
0.008
0.006831 236.6875
0
0
0.001267
0
0
0.03729
0
0
0.02727
0
0
0
0
0
0.031045
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.330004
0
0
0.002243
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
14591.4 568258.7
0
568258.7 72996.66 219394.7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001529
0
0
0
0.008
0.004368
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 6271.758 249381.9 127562.4 121819.5 25933.72 36793.12 0.003286
0
0.117199 0.000663
0
0.002168
0.002
0.001311 0.000722
0
0.002358
0.008
0.003747 137.9916
0
66.6249
0.00043
0
0.042806
0.00058
0
0.020671 0.001381
0
0.176635 0.036142 0.032302
0.39726 0.002015
0
0.193393 0.036142 0.032302
0.39726 0.020013 0.205923
0
1.37819 0.001364
0
0.000659
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
24136.47 736196.1 736196.1
0
109571
0
0.134919
0
0.395074 0.001791
0
0.002798
0.002
0.002838 0.001948
0
0.003043
0.008
0.008107 332.0233
0
88.05436
0.00631
0
0.109218 0.009543
0
0.038745 0.028415
0
0.569782 0.157522 0.456069 2.467901 0.041436
0
0.623836 0.157522 0.456069 2.467901 0.036499 1.368916
0
5.624448 0.003282
0
0.000871
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
8.510916 119.4982 119.4982
0
25.11455
0
1.690269
0
0
0.241464
0
0
0.002
0.00334 0.252382
0
0
0.008
0.009543 418.5155
0
0
0.014886
0
0
0.065937
0
0
0.320488
0
0
0
0
0
0.364855
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 1.709562
0
0
0.003966
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
61.93893
2054.9
0
2054.9
294.187 793.3611
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001538
0
0
0
0.008
0.004394
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 19.40692 849.1339 406.2744 442.8594 80.24761 133.7567 0.003074
0
0.117199 0.000413
0
0.001456
0.002
0.001322 0.000449
0
0.001583
0.008
0.003777 129.0739
0
73.49717 0.000404
0
0.042967 0.000546
0
0.02082 0.001292
0
0.176635 0.024905 0.022892 0.287748 0.001885
0
0.193393 0.024905 0.022892 0.287748 0.020095 0.192615
0
1.37819 0.001276
0
0.000727
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
128775.8
4489208
4489208
0
617258.5
0
0.062575
0
0.324659 0.001272
0
0.002033
0.002
0.002716 0.001384
0
0.002212
0.008
0.007761 346.2249
0
88.33688 0.002639
0
0.081429 0.005428
0
0.036476 0.010335
0
0.378106 0.068121 0.172205
1.07279 0.015078
0
0.413978 0.068121 0.172205
1.07279
0.03686 0.748119
0
3.725451 0.003423
0
0.000873
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
498.9179
17455.1
17455.1
0
2406.111
0
0.047726
0
0
0.005147
0
0
0.002
0.002738
0.00538
0
0
0.008
0.007822
319.776
0
0
0.000624
0
0
0.050381
0
0
0.013436
0
0
0
0
0
0.015295
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.124515
0
0
0.00303
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
502.691 16536.35
0
16536.35
2591.33 6384.394
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001523
0
0
0
0.008
0.004353
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 938.5352 39780.13 19647.25 20132.88 3880.843 6080.728 0.003173
0
0.117199 0.000533
0
0.001824
0.002
0.001316
0.00058
0
0.001984
0.008
0.003761 133.2387
0
79.72461 0.000417
0
0.042967 0.000564
0
0.02082 0.001334
0
0.176635 0.026237 0.024762 0.312901 0.001946
0
0.193393 0.026237 0.024762 0.312901 0.020712
0.19883
0
1.37819 0.001317
0
0.000788
San Mateo
2022 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
10003.64 379521.5 379521.5
0
149039.3
0
0.147855 0.036625 0.627998 0.001475
0
0.00028
0.002
0.0273 0.001604
0
0.000304
0.008
0.078
873.9961 119.3318
27.2104
0.00734 0.115266
0.0324 0.008388 0.003078 0.051835 0.036131 0.419759 0.159081 0.039876
0.21247 2.143205 0.052722 0.612512 0.174174 0.039876
0.21247 2.143205 0.044922 1.060707 3.758503
3.2802
0.00864
0.00118 0.000269
San Mateo
2022 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
4125.911 163656.9 163656.9
0
51898.77
0
1.504213 1.931831
0
0.031512 0.027157
0
0.003
0.0273 0.032937 0.028385
0
0.012
0.078
637.8215 131.7515
0
0.007485 0.005098
0
0.100489 0.020757
0
0.161141
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.183448 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.175401 0.431298 0.909745
0
0.006044 0.001248
0
San Mateo
2022 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
1166.848 41928.69 41928.69
0
17384.3
0
0.172444 0.036335
0.63879 0.001438
0
0.000256
0.002
0.03185 0.001563
0
0.000279
0.008
0.091
987.4952 138.4793 25.88997 0.006917 0.113246 0.032524 0.010039 0.002938 0.050567 0.032554 0.416435 0.161154 0.042451 0.223651 2.256912 0.047503
0.60766 0.176444 0.042451 0.223651 2.256912 0.044984
0.96909 3.758162
3.27211 0.009762 0.001369 0.000256
San Mateo
2022 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1718.365 70077.77 70077.77
0
21614.87
0
1.063364 1.845339
0
0.026451 0.026962
0
0.003
0.03185 0.027647 0.028181
0
0.012
0.091
760.4369 209.0317
0
0.0066 0.005098
0
0.119807 0.032933
0
0.142091
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.161761 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.190222
0.33983 0.909745
0
0.007206 0.001981
0
San Mateo
2022 MCY
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
11775.11 70029.62 70029.62
0
23550.22
0
0.563376
0
0.148145
0.00188
0
0.003836
0.001
0.0042 0.002007
0
0.00407
0.004
0.012
188.692
0
50.07102 0.159449
0
0.191389 0.038859
0
0.008671 1.054922
0
1.43267 3.559039 3.722371 3.591267 1.259821
0
1.557156 3.559039 3.722371 3.591267 0.008767 12.33015
0
7.963377 0.001865
0
0.000495
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
72399.54
2561532
2561532
0
344969.9
0
0.082284
0
0.405736 0.001302
0
0.002201
0.002
0.002736 0.001416
0
0.002394
0.008
0.007817 417.1287
0
107.0056 0.003285
0
0.097944 0.006421
0
0.03969 0.013708
0
0.489899 0.078175 0.208676 1.264413 0.019977
0
0.536373 0.078175 0.208676 1.264413 0.037279 0.822259
0
4.057961 0.004124
0
0.001058
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1048.144 37479.46 37479.46
0
5036.896
0
0.047538
0
0
0.004777
0
0
0.002
0.002777 0.004993
0
0
0.008
0.007934 415.9683
0
0
0.000486
0
0
0.065536
0
0
0.010456
0
0
0
0
0
0.011904
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.180998
0
0
0.003942
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
497.6274 16375.41
0
16375.41 2565.598
6322.26
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001523
0
0
0
0.008
0.004351
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 517.8537 21966.08 11106.12 10859.96 2141.325 3280.032 0.003248
0
0.117199 0.000662
0
0.002216
0.002
0.001313
0.00072
0
0.00241
0.008
0.003752 136.3969
0
99.02064 0.000428
0
0.043094 0.000581
0
0.020938 0.001365
0
0.176635 0.028658 0.027868 0.344841 0.001992
0
0.193393 0.028658 0.027868 0.344841 0.021235 0.203543
0
1.37819 0.001348
0
0.000979
San Mateo
2022 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
751.6488 7043.926 7043.926
0
75.19494
0
0.465552
0
0.403779 0.001863
0
0.00047
0.003
0.015756 0.002026
0
0.000512
0.012
0.045017 1948.174
0
32.24518 0.017921
0
0.039048 0.027477
0
0.041219 0.080748
0
0.17064 12.70927 0.296989 4.339134 0.117828
0
0.186829 12.70927 0.296989 4.339134 0.044744 2.072946
0
3.847624
0.01926
0
0.000319
San Mateo
2022 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
300.3894 3250.689 3250.689
0
30.03894
0
3.401996
0
0
0.063019
0
0
0.004
0.015675 0.065868
0
0
0.016
0.044785 1084.767
0
0
0.00458
0
0
0.170906
0
0
0.09861
0
0
0
0
0
0.112261
0
0
0
0
0
0.179676 0.315592
0
0
0.010279
0
0
San Mateo
2022 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
756.5401
44483.7
44483.7
0
15136.85
0
0.604094 0.088245
0.46581
0.00141
0
0.000575
0.003
0.015756 0.001534
0
0.000625
0.012
0.045017 1795.462 537.4412 47.64422 0.019663 0.256996 0.051354 0.028235 0.007106 0.034029 0.098372 1.009116 0.288081 0.038151 0.314095 2.937981 0.143545
1.4725 0.315413 0.038151 0.314095 2.937981 0.044954 2.080066 15.07471 6.396341
0.01775 0.005313 0.000471
San Mateo
2022 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
4156.051
174304
174304
0
49995.69
0
1.853334 15.89701 1.436117 0.023182 0.047988
0
0.003
0.015983
0.02423 0.050158
0
0.012
0.045666 1163.775 2327.752
0
0.002813 0.013999
0
0.183353 0.366738
0
0.060556 0.301404
0
0
0
0
0.068939 0.343126
0
0
0
0
0.193605 0.190383 7.265304
0
0.01102 0.022042
0
San Mateo
2022 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga
40.6324 1873.257 1873.257
0
381.7521
0
0.153851 6.514328
0
0.001104 0.016957
0
0.003
0.016076 0.001201 0.018442
0
0.012
0.045932 1016.708 5323.016
0
0.747144 17.79445
0
0.207263 1.085132
0
0.010675 0.254248
0
0
0
0
0.762515 18.16055
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.046292 32.12184
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
256.1924 15869.04 15869.04
0
5125.898
0
0.334451 0.065049 0.372974 0.000967
0
0.000281
0.003
0.01568 0.001052
0
0.000306
0.012
0.044799 1762.688 376.5742
30.5752 0.010394
0.20597 0.033776
0.01844 0.005899 0.032179 0.049248 0.746076 0.166832
0.02655 0.111811 1.875172 0.071862 1.088672
0.18266
0.02655 0.111811 1.875172 0.044917 1.079968 5.773479 3.517583 0.017426 0.003723 0.000302
San Mateo
2022 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1024.18 74221.67 74221.67
0
10035.19
0
1.072703 6.342591 1.429669 0.010592
0.00365
0
0.003
0.01742 0.011071 0.003815
0
0.012
0.04977 1257.365 1266.668
0
0.001405 0.014292
0
0.198098 0.199564
0
0.030244 0.307698
0
0
0
0
0.03443 0.350291
0
0
0
0
0.210134 0.116655 5.413261
0
0.011906 0.011995
0
San Mateo
2022 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 11.96887 654.3713 654.3713
0
106.5229
0
0.293719
1.58105
0
0.000566 0.002858
0
0.003
0.016148 0.000615 0.003109
0
0.012
0.046137 1069.812 1202.184
0
0.733013 4.775652
0
0.218088 0.245073
0
0.010473 0.068235
0
0
0
0
0.748094 4.873903
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.101343 5.006328
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
57.57285 3267.931 3267.931
0
230.2914
0
0.981493 0.921357 0.655387 0.001299
0
0.000777
0.002
0.015721 0.001412
0
0.000845
0.008
0.044917 807.8108 2570.697 63.52492 0.024786
2.43655 0.092559 0.045477 0.081943 0.056213 0.121107 10.56494 0.538292
0.15493 0.449507 2.231691
0.17672 15.41634 0.589362
0.15493 0.449507 2.231691
0.045
3.134679 81.77802 13.70908 0.007986 0.025414 0.000628
San Mateo
2022 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
168.1521 3799.171 3799.171
0
2434.843
0
5.308039 24.50088 0.415745 0.025509 0.027927
0
0.003
0.015721 0.026662
0.02919
0
0.012
0.044917 1155.182 2256.975
0
0.003351 0.008427
0
0.181999 0.355587
0
0.072141
0.18143
0
0
0
0
0.082127 0.206545
0
0
0
0
0.128799 0.214547 4.164591
0
0.010939 0.021372
0
San Mateo
2022 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 5.747464
147.755
147.755
0
83.22328
0
0.580038 5.278861
0
0.003378 0.011167
0
0.003
0.015721 0.003674 0.012145
0
0.012
0.044917 1270.028
4071.06
0
3.473989 15.35501
0
0.258904 0.829912
0
0.049636 0.219393
0
0
0
0
3.545461 15.67091
0
0
0
0
1.06
11.82462 20.31851
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
61.08139 4153.342 4153.342
0
244.3256
0
0.052732
0
0.593554 0.000924
0
0.000101 0.002073 0.032333 0.001005
0
0.00011
0.00829 0.092379 1026.004
0
41.36564 0.002283
0
0.05585 0.006009
0
0.07764 0.006738
0
0.216361 0.059157
0.09606 0.592841 0.009832
0
0.236888 0.059157
0.09606 0.592841
0.045
0.562776
0
5.939286 0.010143
0
0.000409
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
341.0475 28477.87 28477.87
0
1364.19
0
2.903167
0
0
0.007622
0
0
0.007913
0.0385 0.007966
0
0
0.031652
0.11
1452.079
0
0
0.00732
0
0
0.228776
0
0
0.157595
0
0
0
0
0
0.179409
0
0
0
0
0
0.12243 0.193248
0
0
0.013759
0
0
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
2.018703
15.3193
0
15.3193 8.074811 26.70528
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.009
0.01925
0
0
0
0.036
0.055
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2022 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 34.62042 1174.257 1174.257
0
138.4817
0
0.063543
0
0
0.000296
0
0
0.008807
0.0385
0.00031
0
0
0.035229
0.11
1350.881
0
0
4.451808
0
0
0.275386
0
0
0.063608
0
0
0
0
0
4.543397
0
0
0
0
0
0.97
52.64109
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 420 ---
Source: EMFAC2021 (v1.0.1) Emission Rates
Region Type: County
Region: San Mateo
Calendar Year: 2024
Season: Annual
Vehicle Classification: EMFAC2007 Categories
Units:  miles/day for CVMT and EVMT, trips/day for Trips, kWh/day for Energy Consumption, g/mile for RUNEX, PMBW and PMTW, g/trip for STREX, HOTSOAK and RUNLOSS, g/vehicle/day for IDLEX and DIURN
Region
Calendar Y Vehicle CatModel Yea Speed
Fuel
Population Total VMT CVMT
EVMT
Trips
Energy ConNOx_RUNENOx_IDLEXNOx_STREXPM2.5_RU PM2.5_IDL PM2.5_STRPM2.5_PMPM2.5_PMPM10_RUNPM10_IDLEPM10_STR PM10_PMTPM10_PMBCO2_RUNECO2_IDLEXCO2_STREXCH4_RUNECH4_IDLEXCH4_STREXN2O_RUNEN2O_IDLEXN2O_STREXROG_RUNEROG_IDLEXROG_STREXROG_HOTSROG_RUNLROG_DIUR TOG_RUNETOG_IDLEXTOG_STREXTOG_HOTSTOG_RUNLTOG_DIUR NH3_RUNECO_RUNEXCO_IDLEX CO_STREX SOx_RUNE SOx_IDLEX SOx_STREX
San Mateo
2024 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
4.38411 570.1519 570.1519
0
87.71727
0
4.048188
0
0.002195 0.001412
0
0.000781
0.005
0.031087 0.001536
0
0.000849
0.02
0.08882 2242.616
0
52.51813 0.114927
0
9.83E‐05 0.151409
0
0.000106 0.580011
0
0.000534 0.038164 0.298441 2.621146
0.84635
0
0.000584 0.038164 0.298441 2.621146
0.045
33.76595
0
5.064106 0.022171
0
0.000519
San Mateo
2024 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1314.625 119489.1 119489.1
0
14359.46
0
2.758523 46.67792 2.948259 0.025016 0.035273
0
0.008607 0.030666 0.026147 0.036868
0
0.034429 0.087616 1815.874
8218.84
0
0.001264 0.157243
0
0.286092 1.294882
0
0.027205 3.385404
0
0
0
0
0.030971 3.854024
0
0
0
0
0.19939 0.118425 47.19978
0
0.017195 0.077828
0
San Mateo
2024 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
4.22305 364.2879
0
364.2879
41.8342 680.3172
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.008582 0.016829
0
0
0
0.034329 0.048082
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 168.5495 11187.83 11187.83
0
1132.175
0
1.492552 9.520927
0
0.001788 0.012243
0
0.009
0.059336 0.001944 0.013315
0
0.036
0.169533 1498.953 8407.645
0
3.081874 24.13874
0
0.305571 1.713953
0
0.069062 0.389544
0
0
0
0
3.173794 24.68622
0
0
0
0
0.729125 16.65962 64.84398
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
239419.7
7454000
7454000
0
1124271
0
0.038087
0
0.247841 0.001162
0
0.001964
0.002
0.002348 0.001263
0
0.002136
0.008
0.006709 273.8201
0
69.41898 0.002038
0
0.068169 0.004236
0
0.031309 0.007847
0
0.318313 0.083377 0.213338 1.277502
0.01145
0
0.348512 0.083377 0.213338 1.277502 0.036176 0.637775
0
3.199778 0.002707
0
0.000686
San Mateo
2024 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
770.443 17557.03 17557.03
0
3247.138
0
0.188593
0
0
0.01271
0
0
0.002
0.002404 0.013285
0
0
0.008
0.006869 232.7779
0
0
0.001054
0
0
0.036674
0
0
0.022696
0
0
0
0
0
0.025838
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.304144
0
0
0.002206
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
17934.86 689392.1
0
689392.1 89072.05 266162.3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.00153
0
0
0
0.008
0.004371
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 7500.936 275231.1 133857.4 141373.7 31016.37 42699.07 0.003125
0
0.117199 0.000577
0
0.001988
0.002
0.001324 0.000628
0
0.002162
0.008
0.003783 131.2036
0
65.11921 0.000402
0
0.042117 0.000534
0
0.020029 0.001313
0
0.176635 0.037635
0.03379 0.393665 0.001916
0
0.193393 0.037635
0.03379 0.393665
0.0194
0.1958
0
1.37819 0.001297
0
0.000644
San Mateo
2024 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
25010.05 728708.6 728708.6
0
114230.1
0
0.101175
0
0.337766 0.001531
0
0.002433
0.002
0.002823 0.001665
0
0.002647
0.008
0.008066 320.3175
0
83.57506 0.004741
0
0.091509 0.007635
0
0.035447 0.020943
0
0.464929
0.13393 0.378571 2.119435 0.030557
0
0.509038
0.13393 0.378571 2.119435
0.03751 1.098083
0
4.642443 0.003167
0
0.000826
San Mateo
2024 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
6.907674 87.50597 87.50597
0
19.69868
0
1.656035
0
0
0.236493
0
0
0.002
0.003323 0.247186
0
0
0.008
0.009495
417.763
0
0
0.014564
0
0
0.065819
0
0
0.313559
0
0
0
0
0
0.356966
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 1.668132
0
0
0.003959
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
91.59654 3278.131
0
3278.131 443.5442 1265.629
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001533
0
0
0
0.008
0.004381
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 54.25069 2174.893 971.2907 1203.602 224.3266 363.5237 0.002869
0
0.117199 0.000364
0
0.001376
0.002
0.001338 0.000396
0
0.001496
0.008
0.003823 120.4792
0
71.41059
0.00037
0
0.042142 0.000491
0
0.020052 0.001206
0
0.176635 0.024003 0.020809 0.269408
0.00176
0
0.193393 0.024003 0.020809 0.269408 0.018757 0.179795
0
1.37819 0.001191
0
0.000706
San Mateo
2024 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
149536
4914901
4914901
0
718035.6
0
0.047837
0
0.275637 0.001155
0
0.001881
0.002
0.002719 0.001256
0
0.002046
0.008
0.007768 332.6183
0
84.15109 0.002154
0
0.070859 0.004613
0
0.03323 0.008159
0
0.321903 0.059457 0.151098 0.950815 0.011906
0
0.352443 0.059457 0.151098 0.950815 0.038479
0.65082
0
3.265171 0.003288
0
0.000832
San Mateo
2024 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
582.1748 18954.02 18954.02
0
2798.233
0
0.039602
0
0
0.004525
0
0
0.002
0.002742
0.00473
0
0
0.008
0.007835 308.9591
0
0
0.000583
0
0
0.048677
0
0
0.012549
0
0
0
0
0
0.014287
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.119356
0
0
0.002928
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
1250.957 37598.89
0
37598.89 6394.245 14516.27
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001525
0
0
0
0.008
0.004358
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 1631.391 62724.85
29203.5 33521.35 6745.803 10124.45 0.002991
0
0.117199 0.000445
0
0.001613
0.002
0.001331 0.000484
0
0.001754
0.008
0.003803 125.6019
0
77.89253 0.000385
0
0.042141 0.000512
0
0.020051 0.001257
0
0.176635 0.025289 0.023061 0.291714 0.001834
0
0.193393 0.025289 0.023061 0.291714 0.019538
0.18744
0
1.37819 0.001242
0
0.00077
San Mateo
2024 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
11110.29 401258.4 401258.4
0
165526.8
0
0.108054 0.033789 0.571117 0.001381
0
0.000231
0.002
0.0273 0.001502
0
0.000252
0.008
0.078
836.8766 116.5649 26.73629 0.005557 0.107506 0.028745 0.006197
0.00292 0.048292
0.02703 0.387394 0.139437 0.033968
0.18488 1.873078 0.039443 0.565284 0.152666 0.033968
0.18488 1.873078 0.044949 0.932434 3.763967 3.345475 0.008273 0.001152 0.000264
San Mateo
2024 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
4996.692 191551.4 191551.4
0
62852.09
0
1.027551 1.628055
0
0.024469 0.026784
0
0.003
0.0273 0.025575 0.027995
0
0.012
0.078
625.1858 126.8159
0
0.006142 0.005098
0
0.098498
0.01998
0
0.132227
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.150532 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.191039 0.331515 0.909745
0
0.005924 0.001202
0
San Mateo
2024 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
56.88552 3530.642
0
3530.642 794.6546 2311.167
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01365
0
0
0
0.008
0.039
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
1289.385 44551.76 44551.76
0
19209.92
0
0.122228 0.032802 0.574333 0.001317
0
0.000203
0.002
0.03185 0.001432
0
0.00022
0.008
0.091
944.5417 135.0667 25.31696 0.004775
0.10351 0.028373 0.007371 0.002735 0.046606
0.02185 0.376166 0.138457 0.035403 0.189345 1.948594 0.031883
0.5489 0.151593 0.035403 0.189345 1.948594
0.04499
0.81417 3.766002 3.313222 0.009338 0.001335
0.00025
San Mateo
2024 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
2173.662 83732.44 83732.44
0
27341.93
0
0.758817 1.552593
0
0.021905 0.026813
0
0.003
0.03185 0.022896 0.028026
0
0.012
0.091
738.893 201.7788
0
0.00575 0.005098
0
0.116413
0.03179
0
0.123794
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.140931 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.200587 0.280863 0.909745
0
0.007001 0.001912
0
San Mateo
2024 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
14.72375 865.8383
0
865.8383 194.8979 558.2118
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.015925
0
0
0
0.008
0.0455
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 MCY
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
13263.89 76675.37 76675.37
0
26527.78
0
0.518793
0
0.126152 0.001881
0
0.003482
0.001
0.0042 0.002012
0
0.003708
0.004
0.012
186.9256
0
46.09461 0.145168
0
0.173078 0.036969
0
0.007549 0.930365
0
1.275208 3.551353
3.70872
3.28364 1.125127
0
1.386524 3.551353
3.70872
3.28364 0.008901
11.0461
0
7.750076 0.001848
0
0.000456
San Mateo
2024 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
84173.19
2823183
2823183
0
402441.6
0
0.058434
0
0.328591 0.001156
0
0.001958
0.002
0.002737 0.001258
0
0.002129
0.008
0.007819 401.2877
0
101.9843 0.002492
0
0.08141 0.005161
0
0.035386 0.009941
0
0.393656 0.066904 0.180975 1.115277 0.014501
0
0.431003 0.066904 0.180975 1.115277 0.038746 0.686178
0
3.45873 0.003967
0
0.001008
San Mateo
2024 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1163.667
38157.5
38157.5
0
5552.1
0
0.037261
0
0
0.004001
0
0
0.002
0.002798 0.004182
0
0
0.008
0.007995 404.1827
0
0
0.000421
0
0
0.063679
0
0
0.009074
0
0
0
0
0
0.01033
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.171126
0
0
0.00383
0
0
San Mateo
2024 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
1347.217 40547.66
0
40547.66 6889.415 15654.74
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001525
0
0
0
0.008
0.004357
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 894.3672 35015.17 16467.11 18548.06 3698.208 5602.067 0.003021
0
0.117199 0.000509
0
0.001829
0.002
0.00133 0.000553
0
0.001989
0.008
0.0038 126.8709
0
95.82464 0.000391
0
0.042289 0.000521
0
0.020188
0.00127
0
0.176635 0.028115 0.024943 0.310017 0.001853
0
0.193393 0.028115 0.024943 0.310017 0.019752 0.189334
0
1.37819 0.001254
0
0.000947
San Mateo
2024 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
801.8479 7786.339 7786.339
0
80.21686
0
0.31412
0
0.403344 0.001626
0
0.000414
0.003
0.015756 0.001768
0
0.00045
0.012
0.045017 1946.554
0
31.59379 0.011734
0
0.037106 0.021154
0
0.043344 0.049091
0
0.154768 9.691274 0.229932 3.473479 0.071633
0
0.169451 9.691274 0.229932 3.473479 0.044918 1.137792
0
3.470688 0.019244
0
0.000312
San Mateo
2024 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
356.6509 3693.518 3693.518
0
35.66509
0
3.096233
0
0
0.049578
0
0
0.004
0.015675
0.05182
0
0
0.016
0.044785 1085.795
0
0
0.004225
0
0
0.171067
0
0
0.090961
0
0
0
0
0
0.103553
0
0
0
0
0
0.190835 0.284597
0
0
0.010288
0
0
San Mateo
2024 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
803.5707 46997.14 46997.14
0
16077.84
0
0.392706 0.088662 0.440106 0.001362
0
0.000524
0.003
0.015756 0.001481
0
0.00057
0.012
0.045017 1738.217 524.0271 45.30167 0.012668 0.264735 0.046933 0.020191 0.007577 0.034475 0.061766 1.015329 0.254725 0.030087 0.246862 2.353612 0.090129 1.481566 0.278892 0.030087 0.246862 2.353612 0.044986 1.274083 15.14683 5.603458 0.017184 0.005181 0.000448
San Mateo
2024 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
4233.233
177028
177028
0
51051.04
0
1.307284 13.59602 1.607655 0.016259 0.033511
0
0.003
0.015983 0.016994 0.035026
0
0.012
0.045664 1151.344 2248.491
0
0.001748 0.011985
0
0.181395 0.354251
0
0.037635 0.258043
0
0
0
0
0.042845 0.293763
0
0
0
0
0.208724
0.13444 7.547588
0
0.010903 0.021292
0
San Mateo
2024 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
14.28233 871.0875
0
871.0875 206.3119 980.3084
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.003
0.007951
0
0
0
0.012
0.022718
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 40.94682 1935.863 1935.863
0
369.2827
0
0.126627 6.578363
0
0.00126 0.019031
0
0.003
0.016095 0.001371 0.020698
0
0.012
0.045986 1003.333 5452.112
0
0.773152 17.27614
0
0.204536 1.111449
0
0.011047 0.246842
0
0
0
0
0.789058 17.63157
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.066853 36.67055
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
254.1967 14438.68 14438.68
0
5085.967
0
0.276687 0.065109 0.370674
0.00102
0
0.000283
0.003
0.01568
0.00111
0
0.000308
0.012
0.044799 1723.101 370.7574 29.97676 0.008478 0.205512 0.032818 0.016007 0.005919 0.031879 0.039535 0.746984 0.162428 0.025788
0.11331
1.92621
0.05769 1.089998 0.177838 0.025788
0.11331
1.92621 0.044947 0.847792 5.778931 3.396221 0.017035 0.003665 0.000296
San Mateo
2024 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1077.493 75002.36 75002.36
0
10539.7
0
0.835238 5.759378 1.510482 0.009497 0.003284
0
0.003
0.017376 0.009927 0.003433
0
0.012
0.049647 1241.911
1216.11
0
0.000936 0.013985
0
0.195664 0.191599
0
0.020157 0.301093
0
0
0
0
0.022947 0.342772
0
0
0
0
0.217754 0.093918 5.631167
0
0.01176 0.011516
0
San Mateo
2024 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
0.873406 79.58076
0
79.58076 17.47512 88.16331
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.003
0.00784
0
0
0
0.012
0.022399
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 7.797528 492.5585 492.5585
0
69.398
0
0.196374 1.542446
0
0.001031 0.003779
0
0.003
0.016148 0.001121
0.00411
0
0.012
0.046137 1012.331 1198.177
0
0.786409 4.299019
0
0.20637 0.244256
0
0.011236 0.061424
0
0
0
0
0.802588 4.387464
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.2452 7.082462
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
66.88141 3561.549 3561.549
0
267.5256
0
0.835223
0.92382 0.639831 0.001152
0
0.000724
0.002
0.015721 0.001252
0
0.000787
0.008
0.044917
789.442 2519.886 61.00487
0.01963 2.446302 0.087874 0.039135 0.085207 0.056875
0.09611 10.60191 0.509805 0.133122 0.399591 2.076885 0.140243 15.47029 0.558173 0.133122 0.399591 2.076885
0.045
2.460202 82.00038 12.72081 0.007804 0.024912 0.000603
San Mateo
2024 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
168.96 3777.202 3777.202
0
2446.541
0
4.696712 23.22062 0.459253 0.022409 0.023726
0
0.003
0.015721 0.023422 0.024798
0
0.012
0.044917 1144.311 2236.593
0
0.003112 0.008208
0
0.180287 0.352376
0
0.067
0.176716
0
0
0
0
0.076275 0.201177
0
0
0
0
0.139187 0.202372 4.417573
0
0.010836 0.021179
0
San Mateo
2024 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
0.90883 36.62057
0
36.62057 8.140217 38.57814
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002304
0.00786
0
0
0
0.009214 0.022459
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 6.288614 158.6097 158.6097
0
91.05913
0
0.535215 5.251389
0
0.003378 0.011823
0
0.003
0.015721 0.003674 0.012858
0
0.012
0.044917 1247.354 4088.672
0
3.35032 15.01581
0
0.254281 0.833502
0
0.047869 0.214546
0
0
0
0
3.419247 15.32474
0
0
0
0
1.06
11.24264 21.79598
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
61.44418
4178.01
4178.01
0
245.7767
0
0.036235
0
0.500251 0.001083
0
0.000148 0.002073 0.032333 0.001178
0
0.000161
0.00829 0.092379 1002.317
0
40.2745
0.00211
0
0.046538 0.004853
0
0.069658 0.006117
0
0.175043 0.050072 0.096281 0.505947 0.008925
0
0.19165 0.050072 0.096281 0.505947
0.045
0.556675
0
6.169996 0.009909
0
0.000398
San Mateo
2024 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
277.5893 21477.78 21477.78
0
1110.357
0
0.375565
0
0
0.006827
0
0
0.008097
0.0385 0.007136
0
0
0.032388
0.11
1223.727
0
0
0.003145
0
0
0.192799
0
0
0.067719
0
0
0
0
0
0.077093
0
0
0
0
0
0.22
0.077195
0
0
0.011595
0
0
San Mateo
2024 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
37.0794 3851.303
0
3851.303 148.3176 6713.762
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.007366
0.01925
0
0
0
0.029466
0.055
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2024 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 65.26114 4514.573 4514.573
0
261.0446
0
0.055424
0
0
0.000272
0
0
0.007741
0.0385 0.000285
0
0
0.030963
0.11
1262.656
0
0
4.100531
0
0
0.257401
0
0
0.058588
0
0
0
0
0
4.184893
0
0
0
0
0
0.97
46.50633
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 421 ---
Season
EmissionType
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
A
CH4_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.005323
0.003105
0.01434
0.273685401
0.006417
0
0
0.092216
0
A
CH4_RUNEX
0.001816
0.004708
0.00211
0.002406
0.005712
0.005375
0.010587
0.263624567
0.006443
0.546372945
0.145168
0.081373
0.009318
A
CH4_STREX
0.062477
0.091044
0.069707
0.078645
0.020762
0.011708
0.011145
5.52E‐07
0.010623
0.006478667
0.173078
0.008356
0.025686
A
CO_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.202312
0.146789
0.673867
4.671825494
0.483165
0
0
2.263477
0
A
CO_RUNEX
0.570543
1.090528
0.638184
0.664089
0.733892
0.462951
0.395072
1.669970888
0.232005
6.288345468
11.0461
1.501161
0.863286
A
CO_STREX
2.917718
4.617357
3.206934
3.337544
2.41636
1.367222
1.330658
0.028436361
1.099317
0.858932112
7.750076
1.209677
2.402511
A
CO2_NBIO_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
8.416025
13.16279
150.1042
782.386274
89.98783
0
0
203.3723
0
A
CO2_NBIO_RUNEX
246.7057
318.307
327.4656
392.5133
763.9244
804.8802
1267.253
1785.755969
1316.743
1063.174859
186.9256
973.1604
1669.614
A
CO2_NBIO_STREX
64.17529
83.21441
83.03964
98.89856
19.31101
10.4472
10.75783
0.294903893
9.70313
5.606659192
46.09461
5.801218
21.87014
A
NOX_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.037135
0.073404
0.855124
4.030982458
0.39677
0
0
1.428293
0
A
NOX_RUNEX
0.034147
0.100617
0.04689
0.056692
0.402767
0.534131
1.102697
2.648858391
0.741408
0.248897775
0.518793
2.760825
1.209234
A
NOX_STREX
0.226253
0.335974
0.270729
0.316956
0.412505
0.237002
1.316729
2.710139555
1.133188
0.069640541
0.126152
0.460231
0.279207
A
PM10_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.00061
0.001309
0.002203
0.003246368
0.000237
0
0
0.001518
0
A
PM10_PMBW
0.006423
0.008037
0.007693
0.007726
0.077769
0.090695
0.045445
0.094475353
0.048826
0.142303478
0.012
0.044808
0.044943
A
PM10_PMTW
0.008
0.008
0.008
0.008
0.009285
0.010593
0.012
0.034500095
0.012
0.050709946
0.004
0.010096
0.013287
A
PM10_RUNEX
0.001164
0.001683
0.00125
0.00127
0.009226
0.015338
0.013581
0.023910573
0.008455
0.00468729
0.002012
0.012412
0.017872
A
PM10_STREX
0.001979
0.002634
0.002017
0.002065
0.000182
9.09E‐05
0.000135
4.76825E‐06
9.96E‐05
2.24745E‐05
0.003708
7.49E‐05
0.000311
A
PM25_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.000584
0.001252
0.002107
0.003100576
0.000227
0
0
0.001451
0
A
PM25_PMBW
0.002248
0.002813
0.002693
0.002704
0.027219
0.031743
0.015906
0.033066374
0.017089
0.049806217
0.0042
0.015683
0.01573
A
PM25_PMTW
0.002
0.002
0.002
0.002
0.002321
0.002648
0.003
0.008625024
0.003
0.012677486
0.001
0.002524
0.003322
A
PM25_RUNEX
0.001072
0.001548
0.00115
0.00117
0.008789
0.014656
0.012982
0.022869803
0.008083
0.004479126
0.001881
0.01185
0.017054
A
PM25_STREX
0.00182
0.002422
0.001855
0.001898
0.000167
8.36E‐05
0.000124
4.38423E‐06
9.15E‐05
2.06645E‐05
0.003482
6.88E‐05
0.000286
A
ROG_DIURN
0.247523
0.461389
0.194362
0.224935
0.090806
0.053972
0.027935
0.000735629
0.031162
0.017608377
3.28364
0.049375
24.03482
A
ROG_HTSK
0.07607
0.133175
0.058398
0.064573
0.024534
0.014609
0.007145
0.0002143
0.008347
0.006970631
3.551353
0.012659
6.708582
A
ROG_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.021174
0.015544
0.028334
0.289107062
0.032763
0
0
0.263138
0
A
ROG_RESTL
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
A
ROG_RUNEX
0.007024
0.020826
0.008029
0.009689
0.060661
0.087797
0.042264
0.03308255
0.023199
0.0512764
0.930365
0.080033
0.062562
A
ROG_RUNLS
0.193088
0.376347
0.148029
0.174218
0.133534
0.078134
0.058623
0.001675829
0.036677
0.01340336
3.70872
0.037999
0.159166
A
ROG_STREX
0.291236
0.462492
0.316536
0.380038
0.100712
0.057135
0.06049
2.99673E‐06
0.052576
0.024367925
1.275208
0.04848
0.107135
A
SO2_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
8.21E‐05
0.000126
0.001393
0.006549696
0.000849
0
0
0.001864
0
A
SO2_RUNEX
0.002439
0.003147
0.003237
0.003878
0.00747
0.00776
0.012069
0.015707489
0.012531
0.008537023
0.001848
0.009122
0.016362
A
SO2_STREX
0.000634
0.000823
0.000821
0.000978
0.000191
0.000103
0.000106
2.91543E‐06
9.59E‐05
5.54275E‐05
0.000456
5.74E‐05
0.000216
A
TOG_DIURN
0.247523
0.461389
0.194362
0.224935
0.090806
0.053972
0.027935
0.000735629
0.031162
0.017608377
0.075872
0.049375
24.03482
A
TOG_HTSK
0.07607
0.133175
0.058398
0.064573
0.024534
0.014609
0.007145
0.0002143
0.008347
0.006970631
3.551353
0.012659
6.708582
A
TOG_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.030129
0.021038
0.046615
0.590701071
0.043317
0
0
0.414123
0
A
TOG_RESTL
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
A
TOG_RUNEX
0.010234
0.030375
0.0117
0.014096
0.074892
0.102369
0.058846
0.301577838
0.032766
0.605087271
1.125127
0.176522
0.081903
A
TOG_RUNLS
0.193088
0.376347
0.148029
0.174218
0.133534
0.078134
0.058623
0.001675829
0.036677
0.01340336
3.70872
0.037999
0.159166
A
TOG_STREX
0.318867
0.50637
0.346567
0.416093
0.110267
0.062556
0.066229
3.28104E‐06
0.057564
0.026679811
1.386524
0.053079
0.117299
A
N2O_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.000577
0.00156
0.022912
0.127466024
0.013356
0
0
0.025052
0
A
N2O_RUNEX
0.003836
0.007587
0.004693
0.005794
0.035809
0.078017
0.147496
0.28637223
0.166731
0.156465471
0.036969
0.114242
0.069387
A
N2O_STREX
0.028712
0.035275
0.032693
0.0342
0.03488
0.019232
0.008187
5.9511E‐07
0.010319
0.009697145
0.007549
0.005409
0.030004
CalEEMod EMFAC2021 Emission Factors Input

--- page 422 ---
FleetMixLandUseSubTypeLDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
0.46273
0.043835
0.266533
0.152565
0.028158
0.006058
0.008871
0.002599
0.002335
0.000769
0.023106
0.000423
0.002018
CalEEMod EMFAC2021 Fleet Mix Input

--- page 423 ---
Source: EMFAC2021 (v1.0.1) Emission Rates
Region Type: County
Region: San Mateo
Calendar Year: 2030
Season: Annual
Vehicle Classification: EMFAC2007 Categories
Units:  miles/day for CVMT and EVMT, trips/day for Trips, kWh/day for Energy Consumption, g/mile for RUNEX, PMBW and PMTW, g/trip for STREX, HOTSOAK and RUNLOSS, g/vehicle/day for IDLEX and DIURN
Region
Calendar Y Vehicle CatModel Yea Speed
Fuel
Population Total VMT CVMT
EVMT
Trips
Energy ConNOx_RUNENOx_IDLEXNOx_STREXPM2.5_RU PM2.5_IDL PM2.5_STRPM2.5_PMPM2.5_PMPM10_RUNPM10_IDLEPM10_STR PM10_PMTPM10_PMBCO2_RUNECO2_IDLEXCO2_STREXCH4_RUNECH4_IDLEXCH4_STREXN2O_RUNEN2O_IDLEXN2O_STREXROG_RUNEROG_IDLEXROG_STREXROG_HOTSROG_RUNLROG_DIUR TOG_RUNETOG_IDLEXTOG_STREXTOG_HOTSTOG_RUNLTOG_DIUR NH3_RUNECO_RUNEXCO_IDLEX CO_STREX SOx_RUNE SOx_IDLEX SOx_STREX
San Mateo
2030 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
3.582613 348.8502 348.8502
0
71.68092
0
3.309536
0
0.000636 0.001281
0
0.000408
0.005
0.031258 0.001393
0
0.000444
0.02
0.08931 2124.112
0
48.3003 0.102341
0
7.44E‐05 0.139473
0
4.21E‐05 0.479172
0
0.000403
0.0158 0.095238 1.146877 0.699207
0
0.000441
0.0158 0.095238 1.146877
0.045
32.18037
0
4.037713 0.020999
0
0.000477
San Mateo
2030 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1338.439
117080
117080
0
15181.71
0
2.116368 45.39119 3.044846 0.023283 0.023862
0
0.008615 0.030087 0.024335 0.024941
0
0.03446 0.085963 1627.718 7731.446
0
0.000972 0.162527
0
0.256448 1.218092
0
0.020928 3.499162
0
0
0
0
0.023825
3.98353
0
0
0
0
0.207747 0.090912 50.23689
0
0.015414 0.073212
0
San Mateo
2030 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
84.88807 7748.726
0
7748.726 800.5398 14460.23
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.00845 0.017769
0
0
0
0.033801 0.050769
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 HHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 216.9868 13750.35 13750.35
0
1391.47
0
0.831786 6.734329
0
0.001446 0.012428
0
0.009
0.062879 0.001573 0.013516
0
0.036
0.179654
1389.59 7977.287
0
1.838591 17.41083
0
0.283277 1.626222
0
0.037223 0.267421
0
0
0
0
1.888896 17.79029
0
0
0
0
0.693529 12.98287 57.90215
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
237797.8
6358120
6358120
0
1114767
0
0.025015
0
0.198441
0.00084
0
0.0015
0.002
0.002348 0.000914
0
0.001631
0.008
0.006709 250.3795
0
62.47074 0.001264
0
0.048749 0.003327
0
0.026593 0.004452
0
0.219797 0.064961 0.182842 1.100035 0.006497
0
0.24065 0.064961 0.182842 1.100035 0.039859
0.49519
0
2.387223 0.002475
0
0.000618
San Mateo
2030 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
401.2092 8094.892 8094.892
0
1723.63
0
0.081629
0
0
0.005614
0
0
0.002
0.002417 0.005867
0
0
0.008
0.006907 217.7249
0
0
0.000572
0
0
0.034303
0
0
0.012309
0
0
0
0
0
0.014013
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.228322
0
0
0.002063
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
25244.08 809588.1
0
809588.1 122638.4 312567.8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001533
0
0
0
0.008
0.004381
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDA
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 9770.495 287561.1 127243.4 160317.7
40401 48420.73 0.002843
0
0.117199 0.000375
0
0.001465
0.002
0.001348 0.000407
0
0.001593
0.008
0.00385 119.3761
0
61.72963 0.000352
0
0.040464 0.000449
0
0.018494 0.001195
0
0.176635
0.03873 0.045962 0.467089 0.001743
0
0.193393
0.03873 0.045962 0.467089 0.018225
0.17816
0
1.37819
0.00118
0
0.00061
San Mateo
2030 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
27717.91 705667.7 705667.7
0
127669.4
0
0.047693
0
0.23518 0.000977
0
0.001648
0.002
0.002822 0.001063
0
0.001793
0.008
0.008064 291.8441
0
73.503
0.00227
0
0.057547 0.004614
0
0.028888 0.009274
0
0.271146 0.085215 0.246386 1.458315 0.013533
0
0.29687 0.085215 0.246386 1.458315 0.039865 0.675828
0
2.884818 0.002885
0
0.000727
San Mateo
2030 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
0.204115 6.131891 6.131891
0
1.004394
0
0.025448
0
0
0.003365
0
0
0.002
0.002682 0.003517
0
0
0.008
0.007662
360.704
0
0
0.000511
0
0
0.056829
0
0
0.011001
0
0
0
0
0
0.012524
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.101404
0
0
0.003418
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
315.4332 10759.94
0
10759.94
1561.79 4154.226
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.00153
0
0
0
0.008
0.004372
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 248.8694
7950.15 3286.476 4663.674 1029.075 1408.569 0.002656
0
0.117199 0.000235
0
0.000982
0.002
0.001357 0.000256
0
0.001068
0.008
0.003878 111.5238
0
67.77418 0.000329
0
0.040538 0.000421
0
0.018562 0.001116
0
0.176635 0.022993 0.019942 0.267154 0.001629
0
0.193393 0.022993 0.019942 0.267154 0.017362 0.166441
0
1.37819 0.001103
0
0.00067
San Mateo
2030 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
206077.5
5643289
5643289
0
980667.9
0
0.031039
0
0.220236 0.000827
0
0.001417
0.002
0.002768 0.000899
0
0.001541
0.008
0.007907 305.2696
0
76.05021 0.001503
0
0.052526 0.003653
0
0.029181 0.005296
0
0.229711 0.045237 0.123667 0.765395 0.007728
0
0.251505 0.045237 0.123667 0.765395 0.040897 0.539909
0
2.545867 0.003018
0
0.000752
San Mateo
2030 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
779.569 21227.36 21227.36
0
3709.708
0
0.028723
0
0
0.003778
0
0
0.002
0.002772 0.003949
0
0
0.008
0.00792 283.3526
0
0
0.000535
0
0
0.044642
0
0
0.011525
0
0
0
0
0
0.013121
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.115181
0
0
0.002685
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
4330.718 103349.1
0
103349.1 21553.59 39901.28
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001531
0
0
0
0.008
0.004374
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 3821.263 114216.7 48686.66 65530.03 15800.92 19792.02 0.002739
0
0.117199 0.000291
0
0.001179
0.002
0.001354 0.000317
0
0.001283
0.008
0.003869 114.9986
0
74.21213 0.000338
0
0.040354
0.00043
0
0.018393 0.001151
0
0.176635 0.026073
0.02498
0.30357
0.00168
0
0.193393 0.026073
0.02498
0.30357 0.017899 0.171627
0
1.37819 0.001137
0
0.000734
San Mateo
2030 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
13418.94 401266.7 401266.7
0
199922.2
0
0.04859 0.028514 0.462341 0.001251
0
0.000149
0.002
0.0273 0.001361
0
0.000162
0.008
0.078
782.2571
111.312 25.41512 0.002474 0.092233 0.022399 0.003012 0.002564 0.040565 0.010703 0.327199 0.105404 0.022577
0.12944 1.313798 0.015618 0.477448 0.115404 0.022577
0.12944 1.313798
0.045
0.67997 3.773798 3.355298 0.007733
0.0011 0.000251
San Mateo
2030 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
6950.283 217964.5 217964.5
0
87425.82
0
0.484943 1.179571
0
0.017739
0.02636
0
0.003
0.0273 0.018541 0.027552
0
0.012
0.078
610.5039 119.3947
0
0.004593 0.005098
0
0.096185 0.018811
0
0.098884
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.112573 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.209503 0.232836 0.909745
0
0.005785 0.001131
0
San Mateo
2030 LHDT1
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
1651.837 70758.49
0
70758.49 23140.54 46352.96
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.01365
0
0
0
0.008
0.039
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
1516.427 44034.41 44034.41
0
22592.5
0
0.0535 0.026469 0.446387 0.001188
0
0.000128
0.002
0.03185 0.001292
0
0.000139
0.008
0.091
883.1295 128.7905 24.14624 0.002097
0.08544 0.021117 0.003676 0.002338 0.038045
0.00861 0.303836 0.099505 0.023317 0.135292 1.428649 0.012564 0.443356 0.108945 0.023317 0.135292 1.428649
0.045
0.63201 3.776933 3.316614 0.008731 0.001273 0.000239
San Mateo
2030 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
3226.044 98642.37 98642.37
0
40579.57
0
0.436422 1.156649
0
0.01874 0.026765
0
0.003
0.03185 0.019587 0.027975
0
0.012
0.091
713.7283 191.5832
0
0.004866 0.005098
0
0.112448 0.030184
0
0.104751
0.10976
0
0
0
0
0.119253 0.124954
0
0
0
0
0.212304 0.238694 0.909745
0
0.006763 0.001815
0
San Mateo
2030 LHDT2
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
416.7471 17085.75
0
17085.75
5526.66 11020.92
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.015925
0
0
0
0.008
0.0455
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 MCY
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
17265.42 85331.57 85331.57
0
34530.84
0
0.471636
0
0.087961
0.00193
0
0.003402
0.001
0.0042 0.002069
0
0.003639
0.004
0.012
185.2558
0
39.68002 0.129549
0
0.143907 0.035104
0
0.005584 0.790266
0
1.025021 3.535952 3.670486 2.694632 0.977152
0
1.115488 3.535952 3.670486 2.694632
0.00908 9.714966
0
7.581403 0.001831
0
0.000392
San Mateo
2030 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
115764.2
3248131
3248131
0
549832.1
0
0.032414
0
0.238074 0.000811
0
0.001423
0.002
0.002792 0.000882
0
0.001547
0.008
0.007976 368.7759
0
92.22249
0.00155
0
0.05581 0.003744
0
0.030164 0.005553
0
0.251972 0.048156 0.134906 0.832269 0.008103
0
0.275878 0.048156 0.134906 0.832269 0.040906 0.545181
0
2.607134 0.003646
0
0.000912
San Mateo
2030 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1415.877 38111.74 38111.74
0
6658.508
0
0.017624
0
0
0.002054
0
0
0.002
0.002838 0.002147
0
0
0.008
0.008109 372.2787
0
0
0.000277
0
0
0.058653
0
0
0.005968
0
0
0
0
0
0.006794
0
0
0
0
0
0.0031 0.147116
0
0
0.003528
0
0
San Mateo
2030 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
4329.635 102706.8
0
102706.8 21508.26 39653.32
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.002
0.001532
0
0
0
0.008
0.004377
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 MDV
Aggregate Aggregate Plug‐in Hyb 2286.849 70894.89 30074.66 40820.23 9456.121 12328.93 0.002725
0
0.117199 0.000297
0
0.001215
0.002
0.001355 0.000323
0
0.001322
0.008
0.003872 114.4453
0
90.22943 0.000338
0
0.040515 0.000432
0
0.018541 0.001145
0
0.176635 0.026805 0.026275 0.314563 0.001671
0
0.193393 0.026805 0.026275 0.314563 0.017817 0.170801
0
1.37819 0.001131
0
0.000892
San Mateo
2030 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
975.2695 8905.399 8905.399
0
97.56596
0
0.146497
0
0.389106 0.001397
0
0.00035
0.003
0.015756 0.001519
0
0.00038
0.012
0.045017 1945.035
0
30.49184 0.005338
0
0.03291 0.013993
0
0.045078 0.017368
0
0.125455 4.324204 0.104731 1.656784 0.025343
0
0.137357 4.324204 0.104731 1.656784
0.045
0.266588
0
2.838247 0.019229
0
0.000301
San Mateo
2030 MH
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
518.1906 4498.521 4498.521
0
51.81906
0
2.677361
0
0
0.030184
0
0
0.004
0.015675 0.031549
0
0
0.016
0.044785 1087.256
0
0
0.003786
0
0
0.171298
0
0
0.081505
0
0
0
0
0
0.092788
0
0
0
0
0
0.206555 0.243761
0
0
0.010302
0
0
San Mateo
2030 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
896.2067 46600.57 46600.57
0
17931.3
0
0.14535 0.071332 0.336727 0.001349
0
0.000468
0.003
0.015756 0.001468
0
0.000509
0.012
0.045017 1641.475 495.3697 40.83701 0.005139 0.272865 0.039358 0.010032 0.006541 0.029695 0.022413 1.024632
0.19997 0.016844 0.142325 1.402001 0.032705
1.49514 0.218942 0.016844 0.142325 1.402001
0.045
0.405969 15.25491 4.210824 0.016228 0.004897 0.000404
San Mateo
2030 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
4347.362 170380.4 170380.4
0
52605.86
0
0.755775 11.60663 1.523653 0.006958 0.010527
0
0.003
0.015983 0.007273 0.011003
0
0.012
0.045667 1112.069 2136.504
0
0.000749
0.00921
0
0.175207 0.336607
0
0.016126 0.198289
0
0
0
0
0.018358 0.225736
0
0
0
0
0.215702 0.077124 7.484208
0
0.010531 0.020231
0
San Mateo
2030 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
446.3324 23740.44
0
23740.44 6143.241 26136.71
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.003
0.007953
0
0
0
0.012
0.022724
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 MHDT
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 59.81429 2526.343 2526.343
0
572.8236
0
0.0963 6.310343
0
0.001402 0.020216
0
0.003
0.016078 0.001525 0.021987
0
0.012
0.045938 974.2403 5301.669
0
0.781312 15.85967
0
0.198605
1.08078
0
0.011163 0.226603
0
0
0
0
0.797386 16.18596
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.055339 39.52768
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
235.2431 10564.99 10564.99
0
4706.745
0
0.160976 0.055683 0.334188 0.001132
0
0.000289
0.003
0.01568 0.001231
0
0.000315
0.012
0.044799 1631.402 356.5246 28.55452 0.004957 0.201951 0.030859 0.010543
0.00494 0.028192 0.021402 0.748646 0.154359 0.024573 0.126962 2.196095
0.03123 1.092423 0.169003 0.024573 0.126962 2.196095
0.045
0.436972 5.788883 3.119712 0.016128 0.003525 0.000282
San Mateo
2030 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
1265.064 76747.17 76747.17
0
12416.27
0
0.731147 4.662626 1.324481 0.008334 0.002706
0
0.003
0.017521 0.008711 0.002828
0
0.012
0.050059 1157.144 1158.301
0
0.000821 0.014331
0
0.182309 0.182491
0
0.017683 0.308549
0
0
0
0
0.020131 0.351259
0
0
0
0
0.218276 0.087625 5.772448
0
0.010957 0.010968
0
San Mateo
2030 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
18.67716 1366.971
0
1366.971 373.6926 1514.395
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.003
0.00784
0
0
0
0.012
0.022399
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 OBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 14.94448 957.8955 957.8955
0
133.0059
0
0.101418 1.499098
0
0.001484 0.004813
0
0.003
0.016148 0.001614 0.005235
0
0.012
0.046137 931.1349 1169.497
0
0.838494 3.763815
0
0.189818
0.23841
0
0.01198 0.053777
0
0
0
0
0.855745
3.84125
0
0
0
0
1.06
3.385525 9.413723
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
87.98822
4038.39
4038.39
0
351.9529
0
0.489617 0.750616 0.559502 0.001063
0
0.000722
0.002
0.015721 0.001156
0
0.000786
0.008
0.044917 757.0149 2429.667 55.27111 0.010391
2.44431 0.075405 0.024791 0.073975 0.052746 0.050694 10.64152 0.434086 0.098112
0.31801 1.752705 0.073972 15.52808
0.47527 0.098112
0.31801 1.752705
0.045
1.308566 82.24088 10.22191 0.007484
0.02402 0.000546
San Mateo
2030 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
160.7253 3531.519 3531.519
0
2327.302
0
2.868955 18.37325 0.553036 0.014701 0.012669
0
0.003
0.015721 0.015365 0.013242
0
0.012
0.044917 1113.173
2158.09
0
0.002281 0.007956
0
0.175381 0.340008
0
0.049109
0.1713
0
0
0
0
0.055907 0.195012
0
0
0
0
0.169646
0.15856 5.305748
0
0.010541 0.020436
0
San Mateo
2030 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
17.84997
651.998
0
651.998 163.1263
686.851
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.00236
0.00786
0
0
0
0.009438 0.022459
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 SBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 7.671522 180.9535 180.9535
0
111.0836
0
0.443878 5.198476
0
0.003378 0.013085
0
0.003
0.015721 0.003674 0.014231
0
0.012
0.044917 1201.138 4122.528
0
3.098317 14.36251
0
0.24486 0.840404
0
0.044269 0.205212
0
0
0
0
3.16206
14.658
0
0
0
0
1.06
10.05674 24.64166
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Gasoline
62.5174 4249.774 4249.774
0
250.0696
0
0.035638
0
0.310547 0.001201
0
0.000164 0.002072 0.032329 0.001307
0
0.000179 0.008288
0.09237 932.2834
0
37.52663 0.001497
0
0.032416 0.004454
0
0.04913 0.004138
0
0.115554 0.024606 0.097267 0.356985 0.006038
0
0.126517 0.024606 0.097267 0.356985
0.045
0.559001
0
5.953718 0.009217
0
0.000371
San Mateo
2030 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Diesel
238.4518 18140.33 18140.33
0
953.8071
0
0.376197
0
0
0.006839
0
0
0.008109
0.0385 0.007148
0
0
0.032436
0.11
1228.547
0
0
0.003149
0
0
0.193558
0
0
0.067807
0
0
0
0
0
0.077193
0
0
0
0
0
0.22
0.077324
0
0
0.011641
0
0
San Mateo
2030 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Electricity
72.67394 6853.165
0
6853.165 290.6957 11946.74
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.007651
0.01925
0
0
0
0.030604
0.055
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
San Mateo
2030 UBUS
Aggregate Aggregate Natural Ga 75.54888 5381.015 5381.015
0
302.1955
0
0.055771
0
0
0.000273
0
0
0.007786
0.0385 0.000286
0
0
0.031145
0.11
1266.418
0
0
4.115508
0
0
0.258168
0
0
0.058802
0
0
0
0
0
4.200177
0
0
0
0
0
0.97
46.76788
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 424 ---
Season
EmissionType
LDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
A
CH4_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.0041
0.002311
0.015963
0.229026242
0.006914
0
0
0.110559
0
A
CH4_RUNEX
0.001091
0.002215
0.001451
0.001466
0.00289
0.003582
0.009624
0.18305022
0.010248
0.641431362
0.129549
0.072674
0.004817
A
CH4_STREX
0.043749
0.056722
0.051039
0.052888
0.014423
0.007552
0.009135
3.05733E‐07
0.008239
0.004511552
0.143907
0.008986
0.021494
A
CO_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.183464
0.137123
0.628743
4.574443284
0.49944
0
0
2.802822
0
A
CO_RUNEX
0.428969
0.660194
0.521738
0.516941
0.468992
0.321574
0.163527
1.442396346
0.162707
7.377393404
9.714966
0.912101
0.258927
A
CO_STREX
2.12334
2.838305
2.46486
2.462348
2.160461
1.186135
0.977377
0.016590448
0.832894
0.828623357
7.581403
1.218105
1.853708
A
CO2_NBIO_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
7.483418
12.87527
130.0816
692.3906648
88.86546
0
0
200.5332
0
A
CO2_NBIO_RUNEX
218.1367
285.5306
296.1322
352.6558
647.7805
684.09
1103.524
1514.609777
1192.98
954.9035774
185.2558
857.525
1657.153
A
CO2_NBIO_STREX
56.37559
72.5759
74.14137
87.76861
16.36469
8.635527
9.478708
0.198459779
7.623425
5.222861474
39.68002
6.586443
19.91475
A
NOX_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.027637
0.059703
0.658867
3.566245811
0.336592
0
0
1.035723
0
A
NOX_RUNEX
0.021508
0.04649
0.029936
0.03068
0.181449
0.284207
0.558221
1.874181967
0.646065
0.210138516
0.471636
1.45062
0.995886
A
NOX_STREX
0.176589
0.231426
0.213197
0.224713
0.2977
0.159643
1.115695
2.649753409
1.022028
0.043221096
0.087961
0.50246
0.254132
A
PM10_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.000617
0.001429
0.000636
0.00208163
0.000207
0
0
0.000758
0
A
PM10_PMBW
0.006346
0.007963
0.007767
0.007787
0.074001
0.086134
0.043306
0.093281284
0.048975
0.156110891
0.012
0.043175
0.04494
A
PM10_PMTW
0.008
0.008
0.008
0.008
0.009264
0.01047
0.012
0.034539384
0.012
0.061827696
0.004
0.009879
0.013342
A
PM10_RUNEX
0.0008
0.001038
0.000883
0.000858
0.006648
0.01245
0.005391
0.020667549
0.00762
0.003949707
0.002069
0.007092
0.011597
A
PM10_STREX
0.001471
0.001765
0.001499
0.001469
0.000104
4.97E‐05
0.000118
1.82388E‐06
8.4E‐05
2.48573E‐05
0.003639
9.36E‐05
0.000248
A
PM25_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.00059
0.001367
0.000608
0.001985313
0.000198
0
0
0.000723
0
A
PM25_PMBW
0.002221
0.002787
0.002718
0.002725
0.0259
0.030147
0.015157
0.032648449
0.017141
0.054638812
0.0042
0.015111
0.015729
A
PM25_PMTW
0.002
0.002
0.002
0.002
0.002316
0.002617
0.003
0.008634846
0.003
0.015456924
0.001
0.00247
0.003336
A
PM25_RUNEX
0.000736
0.000955
0.000812
0.00079
0.006331
0.011898
0.005147
0.019767546
0.007285
0.003772866
0.00193
0.006762
0.011058
A
PM25_STREX
0.001353
0.001623
0.001378
0.001351
9.57E‐05
4.57E‐05
0.000109
1.67699E‐06
7.72E‐05
2.28554E‐05
0.003402
8.61E‐05
0.000228
A
ROG_DIURN
0.208006
0.310821
0.155511
0.165232
0.056781
0.034294
0.016264
0.000235524
0.029304
0.012421079
2.694632
0.052216
10.81642
A
ROG_HTSK
0.057819
0.083701
0.043823
0.045503
0.014537
0.008339
0.00391
6.49199E‐05
0.00656
0.003424597
3.535952
0.011692
2.824213
A
ROG_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.016598
0.012899
0.023221
0.271787437
0.032176
0
0
0.326882
0
A
ROG_RESTL
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
A
ROG_RUNEX
0.003852
0.009047
0.005145
0.005303
0.037462
0.06705
0.015705
0.022524009
0.017791
0.045171786
0.790266
0.045956
0.038893
A
ROG_RUNLS
0.160749
0.241641
0.119083
0.126689
0.083346
0.048385
0.033035
0.000391321
0.033896
0.013537374
3.670486
0.037896
0.068402
A
ROG_STREX
0.197071
0.267146
0.223211
0.238678
0.067869
0.035586
0.046415
1.65627E‐06
0.04121
0.01608249
1.025021
0.051728
0.081937
A
SO2_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
7.29E‐05
0.000123
0.001195
0.005616953
0.000834
0
0
0.001828
0
A
SO2_RUNEX
0.002156
0.002823
0.002927
0.003485
0.006325
0.006582
0.010485
0.013042303
0.011283
0.007230239
0.001831
0.008027
0.016233
A
SO2_STREX
0.000557
0.000717
0.000733
0.000868
0.000162
8.54E‐05
9.37E‐05
1.96198E‐06
7.54E‐05
5.16333E‐05
0.000392
6.51E‐05
0.000197
A
TOG_DIURN
0.208006
0.310821
0.155511
0.165232
0.056781
0.034294
0.016264
0.000235524
0.029304
0.012421079
0.066855
0.052216
10.81642
A
TOG_HTSK
0.057819
0.083701
0.043823
0.045503
0.014537
0.008339
0.00391
6.49199E‐05
0.00656
0.003424597
3.535952
0.011692
2.824213
A
TOG_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.023432
0.017024
0.04258
0.526899253
0.043038
0
0
0.511291
0
A
TOG_RESTL
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
A
TOG_RUNEX
0.005617
0.013201
0.007494
0.007717
0.044644
0.077093
0.027406
0.208786723
0.030062
0.693940204
0.977152
0.127141
0.047979
A
TOG_RUNLS
0.160749
0.241641
0.119083
0.126689
0.083346
0.048385
0.033035
0.000391321
0.033896
0.013537374
3.670486
0.037896
0.068402
A
TOG_STREX
0.215768
0.292491
0.244388
0.261323
0.074308
0.038963
0.050819
1.8134E‐06
0.04512
0.017608302
1.115488
0.056636
0.08971
A
N2O_IDLEX
0
0
0
0
0.000532
0.001598
0.019855
0.113681015
0.013363
0
0
0.02289
0
A
N2O_RUNEX
0.002889
0.0045
0.003674
0.00417
0.032136
0.070442
0.126706
0.244505965
0.159364
0.142077729
0.035104
0.090896
0.066786
A
N2O_STREX
0.023753
0.02846
0.028293
0.028531
0.02612
0.013606
0.006893
1.7284E‐07
0.007527
0.006837798
0.005584
0.006286
0.029442
CalEEMod EMFAC2021 Emission Factors Input

--- page 425 ---
FleetMixLandUseSubTypeLDA
LDT1
LDT2
MDV
LHD1
LHD2
MHD
HHD
OBUS
UBUS
MCY
SBUS
MH
0.392609
0.040642
0.308969
0.177896
0.031644
0.007414
0.008262
0.002362
0.002204
0.000645
0.024811
0.000394
0.002146
CalEEMod EMFAC2021 Fleet Mix Input

--- page 426 ---
Attachment 4:  
Project Construction Emissions and Health Risk 
Calculations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA
DPM Construction Emissions and Modeling Emission Rates 
Emissions
per
Construction
DPM
Source
No.
DPM Emissions
Point Source
Year
Activity
(ton/year)
Type
Sources
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(g/s)
2022 & 2023
Construction
0.0214
Point
24
42.8
0.01302
1.64E-03
6.83E-05
Total
0.0214
42.8
0.0130
0.0016
Emissions assumed to be evenly distributed over each construction areas
hr/day =
9
(7am -4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA
PM2.5 Fugitive Dust Construction Emissions for Modeling
DPM
Modeled
Emission
Construction
Area
PM2.5 Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
Source
(ton/year)
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
g/s/m
2
2022 & 2023
Construction CON_FUG
0.0032
6.5
0.00197
2.49E-04
1241.4
2.00E-07
Total
0.0032
6.5
0.0020
0.0002
Emissions assumed to be evenly distributed over each construction areas
hr/day =
9
(7am -4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285

--- page 427 ---
DPM Construction Emissions and Modeling Emission Rates - With Conditions of Approval
Emissions
per
Construction
DPM
Source
No.
DPM Emissions
Point Source
Year
Activity
(ton/year)
Type
Sources
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(g/s)
2022 & 2023
Construction
0.0013
Point
24
2.5
0.00077
9.74E-05
4.06E-06
Total
0.0013
2.5
0.0008
0.0001
Emissions assumed to be evenly distributed over each construction areas
hr/day =
9
(7am -4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285
PM2.5 Fugitive Dust Construction Emissions for Modeling - With Conditions of Approval
DPM
Modeled
Emission
Construction
Area
PM2.5 Emissions
Area
Rate
Year
Activity
Source
(ton/year)
(lb/yr)
(lb/hr)
(g/s)
(m
2)
g/s/m
2
2022 & 2023
Construction CON_FUG
0.0015
3.1
0.00093
1.18E-04
1241.4
9.48E-08
Total
0.0015
3.1
0.0009
0.0001
Emissions assumed to be evenly distributed over each construction areas
hr/day =
9
(7am -4pm)
days/yr = 
365
hours/year = 
3285

--- page 428 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA
Construction Health Impact Summary
Maximum Impacts at MEI Location - Without Conditions of Approval
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Emissions
PM10/DPM
PM2.5
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
Infant/Child
Adult
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2022 & 2023
0.0934
0.0158
16.61
0.27
0.02
0.11
Total
-
-
16.61
0.27
-
Maximum
0.0934
0.0158
-
-
0.02
0.11
Maximum Impacts at MEI Location - With Conditions of Approval
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Emissions
PM10/DPM
PM2.5
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
Infant/Child
Adult
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2022 & 2023
0.0056
0.0075
0.99
0.02
0.00
0.01
Total
-
-
0.99
0.02
-
-
Maximum
0.0056
0.0075
-
-
0.00
0.01
  - Tier 4 Interim Engine and BMP Conditions of Approval
Maximum Impacts at Centennial Montessori Preschool
Without COA Emissions
Maximum Concentrations
Maximum
Exhaust
Fugitive
Child
Hazard
Annual PM2.5
Construction
PM10/DPM
PM2.5
Cancer Risk
Index
Concentration
Year
(μg/m
3)
(μg/m
3)
(per million)
(-)
(μg/m
3)
2022 & 2023
0.0075
0.0015
3.59
0.0015
0.009
Total
-
-
3.59
-
-
Maximum
0.0075
0.0015
-
0.0015
0.009
Cancer Risk
(per million)
Cancer Risk
(per million)

--- page 429 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 7.6 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0929
10
1.26
2022 & 2023
0.0929
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0929
10
15.26
2022 & 2023
0.0929
1
0.27
0.019
0.005
0.10
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
16.53
0.27
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 430 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 4.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0934
10
1.27
2022 & 2023
0.0934
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0934
10
15.34
2022 & 2023
0.0934
1
0.27
0.019
0.016
0.11
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
16.61
0.27
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 431 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 1.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0298
10
0.41
2022 & 2023
0.0298
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0298
10
4.90
2022 & 2023
0.0298
1
0.09
0.01
0.033
0.06
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
5.31
0.09
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 432 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - With Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 7.6 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0055
10
0.08
2022 & 2023
0.0055
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0055
10
0.91
2022 & 2023
0.0055
1
0.02
0.001
0.00
0.01
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.98
0.02
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 433 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - With Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 4.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0056
10
0.08
2022 & 2023
0.0056
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0056
10
0.91
2022 & 2023
0.0056
1
0.02
0.001
0.01
0.01
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.99
0.02
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 434 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - With Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Off-Site MEI Location - 1.5 meter receptor height
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age -->
3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Infant/Child - Exposure Information
Infant/Child
Adult - Exposure Information
Adult
Exposure
Age
Cancer
Modeled
Age
Cancer
Maximum
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
2022 & 2023
0.0018
10
0.02
2022 & 2023
0.0018
-
-
1
1
0 - 1
2022 & 2023
0.0018
10
0.29
2022 & 2023
0.0018
1
0.01
0.000
0.02
0.02
2
1
1 - 2
0.0000
10
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
3
1
2 - 3
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
4
1
3 - 4
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
5
1
4 - 5
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
6
1
5 - 6
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
7
1
6 - 7
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
8
1
7 - 8
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
9
1
8 - 9
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
10
1
9 - 10
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
11
1
10 - 11
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
12
1
11 - 12
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
13
1
12 - 13
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
14
1
13 - 14
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
15
1
14 - 15
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
16
1
15 - 16
0.0000
3
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
17
1
16-17
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
18
1
17-18
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
19
1
18-19
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
20
1
19-20
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
21
1
20-21
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
22
1
21-22
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
23
1
22-23
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
24
1
23-24
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
25
1
24-25
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
26
1
25-26
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
27
1
26-27
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
28
1
27-28
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
29
1
28-29
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
30
1
29-30
0.0000
1
0.00
0.0000
1
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.31
0.01
*  Third trimester of pregnancy

--- page 435 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Construction Impacts - Without Conditions of Approval
Maximum DPM Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Calculations From Construction
Impacts at Centennial Montessori Preschool - 1 meter - Child Exposure
Student Cancer Risk (per million) = CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x SAF x 8-Hr BR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
SAF  = Student Adjustment Factor (unitless)
          = (24 hrs/9 hrs) x (7 days/5 days) = 3.73
8-Hr BR = Eight-hour breathing rate (L/kg body weight-per 8 hrs)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Values
School Infant
School Child
Adult
Age -->
0 - <2
2 - <16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
3
1
CPF =
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
1.10E+00
8-Hr BR* =
1200
520
240
A =
1
1
1
EF =
250
250
250
AT =
70
70
70
SAF =
3.73
3.73
1.00
* 95th percentile 8-hr breathing rates for moderate intensity activities
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Child - Exposure Information
Child
Exposure
Age*
Cancer
Exposure
Duration
DPM Conc (ug/m3)
Sensitivity
Risk
Hazard
Fugitive
Total
Year
(years)
Age
Year
Annual
Factor
(per million)
Index
PM2.5
PM2.5
1
1
1 - 2
2022 & 2023
0.0075
10
3.6
0.0015
0.0015
0.009
2
1
0.0000
3
0.0
3
1
0.0000
3
0.0
4
1
0.0000
3
0.0
5
1
0.0000
3
0.0
6
1
0.0000
3
0.0
7
1
0.0000
3
0.0
8
1
0.0000
3
0.0
9
1
0.0000
3
0.0
Total Increased Cancer Risk
3.59
*  Children assumed to be 1 years of age or older with 1 year of Construction Exposure
Maximum

--- page 436 ---
Attachment 5:  
Community Risk Modeling Information and Calculations 
 
CT-EMFAC2017 Emissions Factors for El Camino Real 2022, 2024

--- page 437 ---
|
File Name:
CT-EMFAC2617 Version:
Run Date:
Area:
Analysis Year:
Season:

Vehicle Category

El Camino Real 2024.EF
1.6.2.27461

16/29/2621 12:21:12 PM
San Mateo (SF)

2024

Annual

VMT Fraction
Across Category

Diesel VMT Fraction
Within Category

Gas VMT Fraction
Within Category

Truck 1 8.017 6.491 8.509
Truck 2 8.014 8.878 8.113
Non-Truck 8.969 6.817 8.957
Road Type: Major /Collector
Silt Loading Factor: CARB @.032 g/m2
Precipitation Correction: CARB P = 68 days N = 365 days

Fleet Average Running Exhaust Emission Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name 35 mph
PM2.5 6.001347

TOG 6.035838

Diesel PM 6.000248

Fleet Average Running Loss Emission Factors (grams/veh-hour)

Pollutant Name Emission Factor
TOG 1.148758

Fleet Average Tire Wear Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name
PM2.5

Emission Factor
8.062045

Fleet Average Brake Wear Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name
PM2.5

Emission Factor
8.016809

Fleet Average Road Dust Factors (grams/veh-mile)

Pollutant Name
PM2.5

Emission Factor
8.014921

END:



--- page 438 ---
El Camino Real Traffic Emissions and Health Risk Calculations 2022, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
DPM Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and DPM Emissions
Year =
2022
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length   
(m)
Link 
Length    
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
DPM_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,364
DPM_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,364
Total
38,729
Emission Factors
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00050
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes and DPM Emissions - DPM_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
3.85%
746
4.31E-05
9
6.74%
1305
7.55E-05
17
6.40%
1240
7.17E-05
2
3.18%
616
3.56E-05
10
8.25%
1597
9.23E-05
18
4.10%
794
4.59E-05
3
2.35%
454
2.63E-05
11
6.24%
1208
6.98E-05
19
2.38%
462
2.67E-05
4
1.01%
195
1.13E-05
12
7.41%
1435
8.30E-05
20
1.21%
235
1.36E-05
5
1.01%
195
1.13E-05
13
6.74%
1305
7.55E-05
21
3.05%
591
3.42E-05
6
2.18%
422
2.44E-05
14
6.57%
1273
7.36E-05
22
5.06%
981
5.67E-05
7
4.73%
916
5.29E-05
15
5.90%
1143
6.61E-05
23
3.35%
649
3.75E-05
8
3.39%
656
3.79E-05
16
4.23%
819
4.73E-05
24
0.67%
130
7.50E-06
Total
19,364
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and DPM Emissions - DPM_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
3.85%
746
4.31E-05
9
6.74%
1305
7.54E-05
17
6.40%
1240
7.16E-05
2
3.18%
616
3.56E-05
10
8.25%
1597
9.22E-05
18
4.10%
794
4.58E-05
3
2.35%
454
2.62E-05
11
6.24%
1208
6.98E-05
19
2.38%
462
2.67E-05
4
1.01%
195
1.12E-05
12
7.41%
1435
8.29E-05
20
1.21%
235
1.36E-05
5
1.01%
195
1.12E-05
13
6.74%
1305
7.54E-05
21
3.05%
591
3.42E-05
6
2.18%
422
2.44E-05
14
6.57%
1273
7.35E-05
22
5.06%
981
5.66E-05
7
4.73%
916
5.29E-05
15
5.90%
1143
6.60E-05
23
3.35%
649
3.75E-05
8
3.39%
656
3.79E-05
16
4.23%
819
4.73E-05
24
0.67%
130
7.49E-06
Total
19,364

--- page 439 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2022
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length    
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
PM2.5_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
PM2.5_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
Total
38,729
Emission Factors - PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.001702
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
217
4.24E-05
9
7.12%
1379
2.70E-04
17
7.43%
1439
2.81E-04
2
0.41%
80
1.57E-05
10
4.38%
848
1.66E-04
18
8.24%
1595
3.12E-04
3
0.38%
73
1.42E-05
11
4.65%
900
1.76E-04
19
5.72%
1108
2.17E-04
4
0.17%
33
6.54E-06
12
5.89%
1140
2.23E-04
20
4.30%
833
1.63E-04
5
0.45%
88
1.72E-05
13
6.17%
1195
2.34E-04
21
3.26%
630
1.23E-04
6
0.85%
165
3.22E-05
14
6.05%
1171
2.29E-04
22
3.31%
641
1.25E-04
7
3.73%
723
1.41E-04
15
7.05%
1366
2.67E-04
23
2.49%
482
9.42E-05
8
7.77%
1504
2.94E-04
16
7.19%
1392
2.72E-04
24
1.87%
363
7.10E-05
Total
19,364
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
217
4.23E-05
9
7.12%
1379
2.69E-04
17
7.43%
1439
2.81E-04
2
0.41%
80
1.57E-05
10
4.38%
848
1.66E-04
18
8.24%
1595
3.12E-04
3
0.38%
73
1.42E-05
11
4.65%
900
1.76E-04
19
5.72%
1108
2.17E-04
4
0.17%
33
6.54E-06
12
5.89%
1140
2.23E-04
20
4.30%
833
1.63E-04
5
0.45%
88
1.72E-05
13
6.17%
1195
2.34E-04
21
3.26%
630
1.23E-04
6
0.85%
165
3.22E-05
14
6.05%
1171
2.29E-04
22
3.31%
641
1.25E-04
7
3.73%
723
1.41E-04
15
7.05%
1366
2.67E-04
23
2.49%
482
9.41E-05
8
7.77%
1504
2.94E-04
16
7.19%
1392
2.72E-04
24
1.87%
363
7.09E-05
Total
19,364

--- page 440 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
TOG Exhaust Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Exhaust Emissions
Year =
2022
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEXH_NB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
TEXH_SB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
Total
38,729
Emission Factors - TOG Exhaust
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.03831
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
217
9.53E-04
9
7.12%
1379
6.07E-03
17
7.43%
1439
6.33E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.53E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.73E-03
18
8.24%
1595
7.02E-03
3
0.38%
73
3.20E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.96E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.88E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.47E-04
12
5.89%
1140
5.02E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.67E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.86E-04
13
6.17%
1195
5.26E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.78E-03
6
0.85%
165
7.25E-04
14
6.05%
1171
5.16E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.82E-03
7
3.73%
723
3.18E-03
15
7.05%
1366
6.01E-03
23
2.49%
482
2.12E-03
8
7.77%
1504
6.62E-03
16
7.19%
1392
6.13E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.60E-03
Total
19,364
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
217
9.52E-04
9
7.12%
1379
6.06E-03
17
7.43%
1439
6.33E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.53E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.73E-03
18
8.24%
1595
7.02E-03
3
0.38%
73
3.20E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.96E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.88E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.47E-04
12
5.89%
1140
5.02E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.67E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.86E-04
13
6.17%
1195
5.26E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.77E-03
6
0.85%
165
7.24E-04
14
6.05%
1171
5.15E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.82E-03
7
3.73%
723
3.18E-03
15
7.05%
1366
6.01E-03
23
2.49%
482
2.12E-03
8
7.77%
1504
6.62E-03
16
7.19%
1392
6.12E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.60E-03
Total
19,364

--- page 441 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
TOG Evaporative Emissions Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Evaporative Emissions
Year =
2022
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEVAP_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
TEVAP_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
Total
38,729
Emission Factors - PM2.5 - Evaporative TOG
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle per Hour (g/hour)
1.24545
Emissions per Vehicle per Mile (g/VMT) 
0.03558
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
217
8.86E-04
9
7.12%
1379
5.64E-03
17
7.43%
1439
5.88E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.28E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.47E-03
18
8.24%
1595
6.52E-03
3
0.38%
73
2.97E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.68E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.53E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.37E-04
12
5.89%
1140
4.66E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.41E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.59E-04
13
6.17%
1195
4.89E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.58E-03
6
0.85%
165
6.74E-04
14
6.05%
1171
4.79E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.62E-03
7
3.73%
723
2.96E-03
15
7.05%
1366
5.59E-03
23
2.49%
482
1.97E-03
8
7.77%
1504
6.15E-03
16
7.19%
1392
5.69E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.48E-03
Total
19,364
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
217
8.85E-04
9
7.12%
1379
5.63E-03
17
7.43%
1439
5.88E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.28E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.46E-03
18
8.24%
1595
6.52E-03
3
0.38%
73
2.97E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.68E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.53E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.37E-04
12
5.89%
1140
4.66E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.41E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.59E-04
13
6.17%
1195
4.88E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.58E-03
6
0.85%
165
6.73E-04
14
6.05%
1171
4.79E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.62E-03
7
3.73%
723
2.95E-03
15
7.05%
1366
5.58E-03
23
2.49%
482
1.97E-03
8
7.77%
1504
6.15E-03
16
7.19%
1392
5.69E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.48E-03
Total
19,364

--- page 442 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - Off-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
Fugitive Road PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and Fugitive Road PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2022
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
FUG_NB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
FUG_SB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,364
Total
38,729
Emission Factors - Fugitive PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Tire Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00205
Brake Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01680
Road Dust - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01482
otal Fugitive PM2.5 - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.03367
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
217
8.38E-04
9
7.12%
1379
5.33E-03
17
7.43%
1439
5.57E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.11E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.28E-03
18
8.24%
1595
6.17E-03
3
0.38%
73
2.81E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.48E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.29E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.29E-04
12
5.89%
1140
4.41E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.23E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.40E-04
13
6.17%
1195
4.63E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.44E-03
6
0.85%
165
6.37E-04
14
6.05%
1171
4.53E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.48E-03
7
3.73%
723
2.80E-03
15
7.05%
1366
5.29E-03
23
2.49%
482
1.86E-03
8
7.77%
1504
5.82E-03
16
7.19%
1392
5.39E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.40E-03
Total
19,364
2022 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
217
8.37E-04
9
7.12%
1379
5.33E-03
17
7.43%
1439
5.56E-03
2
0.41%
80
3.10E-04
10
4.38%
848
3.28E-03
18
8.24%
1595
6.17E-03
3
0.38%
73
2.81E-04
11
4.65%
900
3.48E-03
19
5.72%
1108
4.29E-03
4
0.17%
33
1.29E-04
12
5.89%
1140
4.41E-03
20
4.30%
833
3.22E-03
5
0.45%
88
3.39E-04
13
6.17%
1195
4.62E-03
21
3.26%
630
2.44E-03
6
0.85%
165
6.37E-04
14
6.05%
1171
4.53E-03
22
3.31%
641
2.48E-03
7
3.73%
723
2.80E-03
15
7.05%
1366
5.28E-03
23
2.49%
482
1.86E-03
8
7.77%
1504
5.81E-03
16
7.19%
1392
5.38E-03
24
1.87%
363
1.40E-03
Total
19,364

--- page 443 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - On-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
DPM Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and DPM Emissions
Year =
2024
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length   
(m)
Link 
Length    
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
DPM_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,748
DPM_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
55.7
3.4
35
19,748
Total
39,496
Emission Factors
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00024
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes and DPM Emissions - DPM_NB_ECR
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
3.80%
751
2.07E-05
9
6.65%
1313
3.62E-05
17
6.48%
1280
3.53E-05
2
3.14%
620
1.71E-05
10
8.30%
1639
4.52E-05
18
3.84%
758
2.09E-05
3
2.48%
490
1.35E-05
11
6.32%
1247
3.44E-05
19
2.35%
464
1.28E-05
4
0.99%
196
5.40E-06
12
7.64%
1508
4.16E-05
20
1.19%
235
6.50E-06
5
0.99%
196
5.40E-06
13
6.81%
1345
3.71E-05
21
2.81%
555
1.53E-05
6
2.15%
424
1.17E-05
14
6.65%
1313
3.62E-05
22
4.79%
947
2.61E-05
7
4.83%
954
2.63E-05
15
5.99%
1182
3.26E-05
23
3.47%
685
1.89E-05
8
3.34%
660
1.82E-05
16
4.33%
856
2.36E-05
24
0.66%
131
3.60E-06
Total
19,748
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and DPM Emissions - DPM_SB_ECR
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
3.80%
751
2.07E-05
9
6.65%
1313
3.62E-05
17
6.48%
1280
3.53E-05
2
3.14%
620
1.71E-05
10
8.30%
1639
4.52E-05
18
3.84%
758
2.09E-05
3
2.48%
490
1.35E-05
11
6.32%
1247
3.44E-05
19
2.35%
464
1.28E-05
4
0.99%
196
5.40E-06
12
7.64%
1508
4.16E-05
20
1.19%
235
6.49E-06
5
0.99%
196
5.40E-06
13
6.81%
1345
3.71E-05
21
2.81%
555
1.53E-05
6
2.15%
424
1.17E-05
14
6.65%
1313
3.62E-05
22
4.79%
947
2.61E-05
7
4.83%
954
2.63E-05
15
5.99%
1182
3.26E-05
23
3.47%
685
1.89E-05
8
3.34%
660
1.82E-05
16
4.33%
856
2.36E-05
24
0.66%
131
3.60E-06
Total
19,748

--- page 444 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - On-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2024
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length    
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
PM2.5_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
PM2.5_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
Total
39,496
Emission Factors - PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.001347
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
221
3.41E-05
9
7.12%
1406
2.18E-04
17
7.43%
1467
2.27E-04
2
0.42%
82
1.27E-05
10
4.38%
864
1.34E-04
18
8.23%
1625
2.52E-04
3
0.38%
75
1.16E-05
11
4.65%
919
1.42E-04
19
5.73%
1132
1.75E-04
4
0.18%
35
5.39E-06
12
5.90%
1164
1.80E-04
20
4.30%
849
1.31E-04
5
0.46%
91
1.41E-05
13
6.17%
1219
1.89E-04
21
3.25%
643
9.95E-05
6
0.85%
168
2.59E-05
14
6.05%
1194
1.85E-04
22
3.31%
654
1.01E-04
7
3.73%
737
1.14E-04
15
7.05%
1392
2.16E-04
23
2.48%
490
7.59E-05
8
7.76%
1533
2.37E-04
16
7.18%
1418
2.20E-04
24
1.88%
371
5.74E-05
Total
19,748
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and PM2.5 Emissions - PM2.5_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
221
3.41E-05
9
7.12%
1406
2.17E-04
17
7.43%
1467
2.27E-04
2
0.42%
82
1.27E-05
10
4.38%
864
1.34E-04
18
8.23%
1625
2.51E-04
3
0.38%
75
1.15E-05
11
4.65%
919
1.42E-04
19
5.73%
1132
1.75E-04
4
0.18%
35
5.39E-06
12
5.90%
1164
1.80E-04
20
4.30%
849
1.31E-04
5
0.46%
91
1.41E-05
13
6.17%
1219
1.89E-04
21
3.25%
643
9.94E-05
6
0.85%
168
2.59E-05
14
6.05%
1194
1.85E-04
22
3.31%
654
1.01E-04
7
3.73%
737
1.14E-04
15
7.05%
1392
2.15E-04
23
2.48%
490
7.58E-05
8
7.76%
1533
2.37E-04
16
7.18%
1418
2.19E-04
24
1.88%
371
5.73E-05
Total
19,748

--- page 445 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - On-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
TOG Exhaust Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Exhaust Emissions
Year =
2024
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEXH_NB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
TEXH_SB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
Total
39,496
Emission Factors - TOG Exhaust
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.03583
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_NB_ECR
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
221
9.08E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.79E-03
17
7.43%
1467
6.04E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.38E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.56E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.69E-03
3
0.38%
75
3.07E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.78E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.66E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.43E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.79E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.50E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.76E-04
13
6.17%
1219
5.02E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.65E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.90E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.92E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.69E-03
7
3.73%
737
3.04E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.73E-03
23
2.48%
490
2.02E-03
8
7.76%
1533
6.31E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.84E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.53E-03
Total
19,748
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Exhaust Emissions - TEXH_SB_ECR
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
221
9.08E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.78E-03
17
7.43%
1467
6.04E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.38E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.56E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.69E-03
3
0.38%
75
3.07E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.78E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.66E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.43E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.79E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.49E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.75E-04
13
6.17%
1219
5.02E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.64E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.89E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.91E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.69E-03
7
3.73%
737
3.03E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.73E-03
23
2.48%
490
2.02E-03
8
7.76%
1533
6.31E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.83E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.53E-03
Total
19,748

--- page 446 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - On-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
TOG Evaporative Emissions Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and TOG Evaporative Emissions
Year =
2024
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
TEVAP_NB_ECR
El Camino Real Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
TEVAP_SB_ECR
El Camino Real Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
Total
39,496
Emission Factors - PM2.5 - Evaporative TOG
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Emissions per Vehicle per Hour (g/hour)
1.14876
Emissions per Vehicle per Mile (g/VMT) 
0.03282
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
221
8.32E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.30E-03
17
7.43%
1467
5.53E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.10E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.26E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.13E-03
3
0.38%
75
2.82E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.47E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.27E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.31E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.39E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.20E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.44E-04
13
6.17%
1219
4.60E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.42E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.32E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.50E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.47E-03
7
3.73%
737
2.78E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.25E-03
23
2.48%
490
1.85E-03
8
7.76%
1533
5.78E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.35E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.40E-03
Total
19,748
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and TOG Evaporative Emissions - TEVAP_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
221
8.31E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.30E-03
17
7.43%
1467
5.53E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.09E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.26E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.13E-03
3
0.38%
75
2.81E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.46E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.27E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.31E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.39E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.20E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.44E-04
13
6.17%
1219
4.59E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.42E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.31E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.50E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.47E-03
7
3.73%
737
2.78E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.25E-03
23
2.48%
490
1.85E-03
8
7.76%
1533
5.78E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.34E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.40E-03
Total
19,748

--- page 447 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - On-Site Residential
Cumulative Operation - El Camino Real
Fugitive Road PM2.5 Modeling - Roadway Links, Traffic Volumes, and Fugitive Road PM2.5 Emissions
Year =
2024
Road Link
Description
Direction
No. 
Lanes
Link 
Length  
(m)
Link 
Length   
(mi)
Link 
Width    
(m)
Link 
Width 
(ft)
Release 
Height    
( m)
Average 
Speed  
(mph)
Average 
Vehicles 
per Day
FUG_NB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Northbound
NB
3
665.9
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
FUG_SB_ECR
El Camino Real 
Southbound
SB
3
665.3
0.41
17.0
56
1.3
35
19,748
Total
39,496
Emission Factors - Fugitive PM2.5
Speed Category 
1
2
3
4
Travel Speed (mph) 
35
Tire Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.00205
Brake Wear - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01681
Road Dust - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.01492
otal Fugitive PM2.5 - Emissions per Vehicle (g/VMT) 
0.03378
Emisson Factors from CT-EMFAC2017
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_NB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/s
1
1.12%
221
8.56E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.46E-03
17
7.43%
1467
5.69E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.19E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.35E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.31E-03
3
0.38%
75
2.90E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.57E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.39E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.35E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.52E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.30E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.54E-04
13
6.17%
1219
4.73E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.49E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.50E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.64E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.54E-03
7
3.73%
737
2.86E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.40E-03
23
2.48%
490
1.90E-03
8
7.76%
1533
5.95E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.50E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.44E-03
Total
19,748
2024 Hourly Traffic Volumes Per Direction and Fugitive PM2.5 Emissions - FUG_SB_ECR
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
%  Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
Hour
% Per 
Hour
VPH
g/mile
1
1.12%
221
8.55E-04
9
7.12%
1406
5.45E-03
17
7.43%
1467
5.69E-03
2
0.42%
82
3.18E-04
10
4.38%
864
3.35E-03
18
8.23%
1625
6.30E-03
3
0.38%
75
2.89E-04
11
4.65%
919
3.56E-03
19
5.73%
1132
4.39E-03
4
0.18%
35
1.35E-04
12
5.90%
1164
4.52E-03
20
4.30%
849
3.29E-03
5
0.46%
91
3.54E-04
13
6.17%
1219
4.73E-03
21
3.25%
643
2.49E-03
6
0.85%
168
6.50E-04
14
6.05%
1194
4.63E-03
22
3.31%
654
2.54E-03
7
3.73%
737
2.86E-03
15
7.05%
1392
5.40E-03
23
2.48%
490
1.90E-03
8
7.76%
1533
5.95E-03
16
7.18%
1418
5.50E-03
24
1.88%
371
1.44E-03
Total
19,748

--- page 448 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
at Construction Residential MEI Receptors (1 Location - 4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2022
Receptor Information
Construction Residential MEI receptor
Number of Receptors
1
Receptor Height
4.5 Meters
Receptor Distances
At Construction Residential MEI locations
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco International Airport M 2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction Residential MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
Construction Residential MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.0455
0.0429
0.0026
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 449 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at Construction Residential MEI - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.018
0.004
0.0003
0.02
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.218
0.044
0.0031
0.27
0.0003
0.04
0.05
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.218
0.044
0.0031
0.27
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.034
0.007
0.0005
0.04
17
1
16-17
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
18
1
17-18
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
19
1
18-19
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
20
1
19-20
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
21
1
20-21
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
22
1
21-22
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
23
1
22-23
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
24
1
23-24
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
25
1
24-25
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
26
1
25-26
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
27
1
26-27
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
28
1
27-28
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
29
1
28-29
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
30
1
29-30
1
0.0013
0.0471
0.0559
0.004
0.001
0.0001
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.99
0.200
0.014
1.20
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
2050
2051
2044
2045
2046
2047
2048
2049
2030
2043
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2031
Maximum 
2022
2022
2023
2024
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2026
2027
2028
2029
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
2025

--- page 450 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
On-Site Receptors (4.5 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2024
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
24
Receptor Height
4.5 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco International Airport M2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction On-Site MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
Construction On-Site MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.1133
0.1090
0.0043
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 451 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic - TACs & PM2.5
AERMOD Risk Modeling Parameters and Maximum Concentrations
On-Site Receptors (7.6 meter receptor height)
Emission Year
2024
Receptor Information
Maximum On-Site Receptor
Number of Receptors
24
Receptor Height
7.6 meter 
Receptor Distances
7 meter spacing
Meteorological Conditions
BAAQMD San Francisco International Airport M2013-2017
Land Use Classification
Urban
Wind Speed
Variable
Wind Direction
Variable
Construction On-Site MEI Cancer Risk Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
DPM
Exhaust TOG
Evaporative TOG
2013-2017
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
Construction On-Site MEI PM2.5 Maximum Concentrations
Meteorological
Data Years
Total PM2.5 Fugitive PM2.5
Vehicle PM2.5
2013-2017
0.0423
0.0407
0.0016
Concentration (μg/m3)*
PM2.5 Concentration (μg/m3)*

--- page 452 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 2nd Floor Receptors - 4.5 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.012
0.030
0.0016
0.04
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.142
0.362
0.0195
0.52
0.0002
0.11
0.11
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.142
0.362
0.0195
0.52
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.022
0.057
0.0031
0.08
17
1
16-17
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
18
1
17-18
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
19
1
18-19
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
20
1
19-20
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
21
1
20-21
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
22
1
21-22
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
23
1
22-23
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
24
1
23-24
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
25
1
24-25
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
26
1
25-26
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
27
1
26-27
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
28
1
27-28
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
29
1
28-29
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
30
1
29-30
1
0.0009
0.3859
0.3529
0.002
0.006
0.0003
0.01
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.65
1.640
0.088
2.37
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2033
Maximum 
2024
2024
2025
2026
2027
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2045
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2052
2053
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
2051

--- page 453 ---
1 Hayward Ave, San Mateo, CA - El Camino Real Traffic Cancer Risk
Impacts at On-Site 3rd Floor Receptors - 7.6 meter receptor height
30 Year Residential Exposure
Cancer Risk Calculation Method
Cancer Risk (per million) =CPF x  Inhalation Dose x ASF x ED/AT x  FAH x 1.0E6
Where: CPF = Cancer potency factor (mg/kg-day)
-1 
ASF = Age sensitivity factor for specified age group
ED = Exposure duration (years)
AT = Averaging time for lifetime cancer risk (years)
FAH = Fraction of time spent at home (unitless)
Inhalation Dose = Cair x DBR x A x (EF/365) x 10
-6
Where: Cair = concentration in air (μg/m
3)
DBR = daily breathing rate (L/kg body weight-day)
A = Inhalation absorption factor
EF = Exposure frequency (days/year)
10
-6 = Conversion factor
Cancer Potency Factors (mg/kg-day)
-1
CPF
1.10E+00
Vehicle TOG Exhaust
6.28E-03
Vehicle TOG Evaporative
3.70E-04
Values
Infant/Child
Adult
Age --> 3rd Trimester
0 - 2
2 - 16
16 - 30
Parameter
ASF = 
10
10
3
1
DBR* =
361
1090
572
261
A =
1
1
1
1
EF =
350
350
350
350
AT =
70
70
70
70
FAH =
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.73
* 95th percentile breathing rates for infants and 80th percentile for children and adults
Construction Cancer Risk by Year - Maximum Impact Receptor Location
Exposure
Exposure
Duration
DPM
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
DPM
Year
(years)
Age
0
0.25
-0.25 - 0*
10
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.007
0.012
0.0007
0.02
Hazard 
Index 
Fugitive 
PM2.5 
Total 
PM2.5 
1
1
0 - 1
10
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.079
0.150
0.0081
0.24
0.0001
0.04
0.04
2
1
1 - 2
10
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.079
0.150
0.0081
0.24
3
1
2 - 3
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
4
1
3 - 4
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
5
1
4 - 5
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
6
1
5 - 6
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
7
1
6 - 7
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
8
1
7 - 8
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
9
1
8 - 9
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
10
1
9 - 10
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
11
1
10 - 11
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
12
1
11 - 12
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
13
1
12 - 13
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
14
1
13 - 14
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
15
1
14 - 15
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
16
1
15 - 16
3
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.012
0.024
0.0013
0.04
17
1
16-17
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
18
1
17-18
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
19
1
18-19
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
20
1
19-20
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
21
1
20-21
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
22
1
21-22
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
23
1
22-23
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
24
1
23-24
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
25
1
24-25
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
26
1
25-26
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
27
1
26-27
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
28
1
27-28
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
29
1
28-29
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
30
1
29-30
1
0.0005
0.1596
0.1459
0.001
0.003
0.0001
0.00
Total Increased Cancer Risk
0.36
0.678
0.037
1.07
*  Third trimester of pregnancy
TAC
DPM
Maximum - Exposure Information
Concentration (ug/m3)
Cancer Risk (per million)
2033
Maximum 
2024
2024
2025
2026
2027
TOTAL
Year
Age 
Sensitivity 
Factor
Exhaust 
TOG
Evaporative 
TOG
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2045
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
2042
2043
2044
2052
2053
2046
2047
2048
2049
2050
2051

--- page 454 ---
Date of Request
10/4/2021
Contact Name
Zachary Palm
Affiliation
Illingworth & Rodkin, Inc.
Phone
707‐794‐0400 x117
Email
zpalm@illingworthrodkin.com
Project Name
1 Hayward Ave
Address
1 Hayward Ave
City
San Mateo
County
San Mateo
Type (residential, 
commercial, mixed 
use, industrial, etc.)
Mixed Use
Project Size (# of 
units or building 
square feet)
18 Dwelling Units, 4,650 sf 
office
Table A: Requester Contact Information
Comments:
Risk & Hazard Stationary Source Inquiry Form
This form is required when users request stationary source data from BAAQMD
This form is to be used with the BAAQMD's Google Earth stationary source screening tables. 
Click here for guidance on coducting risk & hazard screening, including roadways & freeways, refer to the District's Risk & Hazard Analysis flow chart. 
Click here for District's Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards document.
For Air District assistance, the following steps must be completed:
1. Complete all the contact and project information requested in 
. Incomplete forms will not be processed. Please include a project site map.
2. Download and install the free program Google Earth, http://www.google.com/earth/download/ge/, and then download the county specific Google Earth stationary 
source application files  from the District's website, http://www.baaqmd.gov/Divisions/Planning‐and‐Research/CEQA‐GUIDELINES/Tools‐and‐Methodology.aspx. The 
small points on the map represent stationary sources permitted by the District (Map A on right). These permitted sources include diesel back‐up generators, gas 
stations, dry cleaners, boilers, printers, auto spray booths, etc. Click on a point to view the source's Information Table, including the name, location, and preliminary 
estimated cancer risk, hazard index, and PM2.5 concentration.
3. Find the project site in Google Earth by inputting the site's address in the Google Earth search box.
4. Identify stationary sources within at least a 1000ft radius of project site. Verify that the location of the source on the map matches with the source's address in the 
Information Table, by using the Google Earth address search box to confirm the source's address location. Please report any mapping errors to the District.
5. List the stationary source information in 
blue section only. 
6. Note that a small percentage of the stationary sources have Health Risk Screening Assessment (HRSA) data INSTEAD of screeninglevel data. These sources will be 
noted by an asterisk next to the Plant Name (Map B on right). If HRSA values are presented, these values have already been modeled and cannot be adjusted further.
7. Email this completed form to District staff.  District staff will provide the most recent risk, hazard, and PM2.5 data that are available for the source(s). If this 
information or data are not available, source emissions data will be provided. Staff will respond to inquiries within three weeks.  
Note that a public records request received for the same stationary source information will cancel the processing of your SSIF request.
Submit forms, maps, and questions to Areana Flores at 415‐749‐4616, or aflores@baaqmd.gov
Table A: Requester Contact Information 
Table B 
Table A

--- page 455 ---
Construction MEI
Distance from 
Receptor (feet) or 
MEI1
Plant No.
Facility Name
Address
Cancer Risk2 Hazard Risk2
PM2.5
2
Source No.3
Type of Source4
Fuel Code5
Status/Comments
Distance 
Adjustment 
Multiplier
Adjusted 
Cancer Risk 
Estimate
Adjusted 
Hazard 
Risk
Adjusted 
PM2.5
1000+
22188 Lesley Foundation dba Lesley Senior Co700 Laurel Avenue
2.42
0
0
Generators
2018 Dataset
0.04
0.10
0.00
0.00
Footnotes:
Project Site
1. Maximally exposed individual 
Distance from 
Receptor 
(feet) or MEI1
FACID (Plant No.)
Distance 
Adjustment 
Multiplier
Adjusted 
Cancer Risk 
Estimate
Adjusted 
Hazard 
Risk
Adjusted 
PM2.5
900
22188 0.05
0.12
0.00
0.00
c. BAAQMD Reg 11 Rule 16 required that all co‐residential (sharing a wall, floor, ceiling or is in the same building as a residential unit) dry cleaners cease use of perc on July 1, 2010. 
Date last updated: 
03/13/2018
g. This spray booth is considered to be insignificant.
4. Permitted sources include diesel back‐up generators, gas stations, dry cleaners, boilers, printers, auto spray booths, etc.
11. Further information about common sources:
a. Sources that only include diesel internal combustion engines can be adjusted using the BAAQMD's Diesel Multiplier worksheet. 
b. The risk from natural gas boilers used for space heating when <25 MM BTU/hr would have an estimated cancer risk of one in a million or less, and a chronic hazard index of 0.003 or less. 
Therefore, there is no cancer risk, hazard or PM2.5 concentrations from co‐residential dry cleaning businesses in the BAAQMD.
d. Non co‐residential dry cleaners must phase out use of perc by Jan. 1, 2023. Therefore, the risk from these dry cleaners does not need to be factored in over a 70‐year period, but instead should reflect 
e. Gas stations can be adjusted using BAAQMD's Gas Station Distance Mulitplier worksheet.
6. If a Health Risk Screening Assessment (HRSA) was completed for the source, the application number will be listed here.
7. The date that the HRSA was completed.
8. Engineer who completed the HRSA. For District purposes only.
9. All HRSA completed before 1/5/2010 need to be multiplied by an age sensitivity factor of 1.7.
10. The HRSA "Chronic Health" number represents the Hazard Index.
5. Fuel codes: 98 = diesel, 189 = Natural Gas.
2. These Cancer Risk, Hazard Index, and PM2.5 columns represent the values in the Google Earth Plant Information Table.
3. Each plant may have multiple permits and sources.
f. Unless otherwise noted, exempt sources are considered insignificant. See BAAQMD Reg 2 Rule 1 for a list of exempt sources.
Table B: Google Earth data

--- page 456 ---
   	

 

 !"#%&'()"!"*)+ ,'-'(&%!.#)/%(

0	1123245
6  07489:;<

--- page 457 ---
   	





 
!"# 
$%&''%()*&+&'&%, -
 .
.
$%&''%()*&+&'&%, -
/
012

3344
56
7
  --
8%,+%)9:('&9:(;
8%,+%%:&9
<9:&'&%,
=8%+
>%:%
:'%9
<
/
?5@
6
A
BC3
DEFGH
I6@

 J :'%9
K
K
K
L%:%'9,
 .9'%MN%%,'&'%(&,O:(NP(&Q*',R9'N%,%,9*%,S9+(;%%TQ%*'%('9;%,;,':'&+++9S%SN%:,&'%,Q%*&R&*U%+'NV&,O*%%:&:W
,,%,,%:',%*9:(*'%(K
MN%,*%%:&:W+%>%+Q&,:9'%*9%:(%(R9%>+'&:W,%:,&'&>%+:(,%,,*N,,*N99+,,%:&9*%:'%,(*%,:(N%+'NR*&+&'&%,K
X<9Q&WN' -Y
%
&Z+&':W%%:'[&,'&*'

--- page 458 ---
Attachment 6:  San Mateo Climate Action Plan Compliance Checklist

--- page 459 ---
Appendix 3: 
CAP Consistency 
Checklist 
The following checklist assists project applicants and City staff to determine whether a proposed project 
complies with the City of San Mateo CAP. The CAP is an implementation tool of the General Plan, 
demonstrating the City’s strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with Section 15183.5 
of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. New projects deemed consistent with the CAP 
are eligible for streamlining the analysis of GHG emissions. Projects inconsistent with the CAP may refer to this 
checklist for informational purposes but may have to submit a separate GHG analysis for the project. Examples 
of projects inconsistent with the City’s forecast include: 
 
Stationary source emissions regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  
 
General Plan amendments.  
 
New specific plans, amendments to specific plans, or new development agreements that would increase 
the population and nonresidential land use expectations beyond those anticipated in the General Plan 
buildout scenario.

--- page 460 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-64 
 
Development Checklist 
Project Description Characteristics  
Please identify the applicable land uses included in the proposed project and provide a brief description of the 
proposed project (or the project description to be used for the associated environmental document). 
1) What is the size of the project (in acres)?  
      
2) Identify the applicable land uses: 
Residential 
Commercial 
Industrial 
Manufacturing 
Other 
3) If there is a residential component to the project, how many units are being proposed?  
Single-family residences:  
:      
Multi-family residences: 
:      
4) Please provide a brief project description, including the square footage of conditioned space by land 
use: 
      
5) Does the project require any amendments to the General Plan or specific plans?  
Yes No 
If yes, please explain:

--- page 461 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-65 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
6) Is the project located in a specific plan area?  
Yes No 
If so, which one? _______________ 
7) Please complete the following table to identify project compliance with any applicable CAP measures.  
Standards for CAP Consistency – New Development  
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
BE 1: All new development: The project does not 
have natural gas connections, and does not have 
any natural gas appliances or other equipment 
installed 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 2. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space: The project includes an on-site renewable 
energy system that meets or exceeds the minimum 
requirements of the California State Building Code 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the kW potential of 
the renewable energy system?  
      
Additional notes:

--- page 462 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-66 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
RE 3. All new developments with nonresidential 
space:  The project includes an on-site energy 
storage system, such as a battery. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how much electricity does 
the system store? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
EE 3. All new developments with residential 
units: The project includes trees that provide 
shade to residences. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many residences are 
shaded by newly planted trees? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers or are pre-wired 
for EV chargers, consistent with state and any local 
regulations. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces include 
installed EV chargers? 
      
If yes, how many spaces are pre-
wired for EV chargers? 
      
Additional notes: 
      
CF 1. All new development with dedicated off-
street parking: The project includes parking 
spaces with installed EV chargers that are 
accessible by members of the public beyond those 
who live and/or work at the project. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, how many spaces with 
installed EV chargers are accessible 
by members of the public? 
      
If yes, how many Level 3 chargers 
installed as part of this project are 
publicly accessible? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 463 ---
CAP CONSISTENCY CHECKLIST 
A-67 
City of San Mateo 
April 2020
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
ST 6. New developments of at least six multi-
family units and/or 10,000 square feet of 
nonresidential space: Implement TDM strategies 
to comply with the appropriate trip reduction 
target identified in applicable area plans and San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
       
Additional notes: 
      
ST 6. Projects of at least 20 multi-family units 
and/or 50,000 square feet of nonresidential 
space undergoing additions or alterations (as 
defined in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.06.012): Implement TDM strategies consistent 
with the targets in relevant area plans and the San 
Mateo Citywide TDM Plan. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, what is the trip reduction 
target for the project?  
     % short-term commute trip 
reduction  
     % long-term commute trip 
reduction 
What strategies will the project use 
to achieve these trip reduction 
targets?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
ST 7. All new development: Be located along El 
Camino Real, within one-half mile of any Caltrain 
station, or in the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development or Hillsdale Station Area Plan areas. 
Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Additional notes:

--- page 464 ---
APPENDIX 3  
April 2020 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
A-68 
 
Reduction Measure and Applicable Standard 
Does the 
Project Comply?
Notes & Comments 
SW 1. All developments with multifamily units 
or nonresidential space: Provide an area of 
sufficient space to store and allow access to a 
compost bin. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
Does the project participate in any 
composting programs?  
      
Does the project compost on-site?  
      
Additional notes: 
      
WW 3. All new development: Include a greywater 
system. 
 Yes 
 No 
 N/A 
If yes, is the greywater system 
“laundry-to-landscape” or another 
type of system? 
      
Additional notes:

--- page 465 ---
From:
Jennifer Schellenberg
To:
Wendy Lao
Subject:
PA 2019-045 1 Hayward ave
Date:
Sunday, May 1, 2022 7:01:51 AM
Hello
I am a property owner at 962 laurel ave. I received the notice on this development
I would like to register my opposition to this project because it is shifting to office mixed use and the current
improvement on that site is all residential.
As a property owner it will change the block and the Hayward park neighborhood. The removal of trees that are not
sick is an issue for me too
I plan to attend the meeting remote
If there is a website to log my opposition or anything besides this email needed to record my objection please let me
know
Warm Regards,
Jennifer schellenberg
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 466 ---
From:
Ann-Tin Ho
To:
Wendy Lao
Subject:
PA19-045 1 Hayward Ave. SPAR + SDPA - Study Session?
Date:
Sunday, May 1, 2022 12:10:10 PM
Dear Ms. Lao,
I received a public hearing notice regarding  PA19-045 1 Hayward Ave. SPAR +
SDPA project for May10. However during the neighborhood meeting in Sep 2019
lots concerns were shared by neighbors and the Developer informed a Study
Session will be the next step and neighbors will be invited.
Can you please advise if the Study Session was hosted? If not, why is the project
directly moved to the Public Hearing stage? Thank you.
SIncerely,
Ann Tin Ho

--- page 467 ---
1 Hayward Ave.
Office/Residential Development
PA-2019-045
Planning Commission Public Hearing
May 10, 2022
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 468 ---
PROJECT SITE
• E2-1/R4 zoning
• 12,820 sq. ft. (0.29 acre)
• 3 existing buildings
o5 residential units 
o1 commercial unit (1,115 sf)
PROJECT SITE
2

--- page 469 ---
SURROUNDING USES
3
Project site
North
South
East
West

--- page 470 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
• 4-stories; 42’-8” height
• FAR: 1.98 (25,320 sq. ft.)
• Office: 4,495 sq. ft. on ground floor
• 18 apartment units on level 2-4
• 2 affordable units – very-low-income level
• All one bedrooms
• 640 – 935 sq. ft.
• 22 parking spaces in underground garage
• 9 for residents; 13 for office
• Additional street parking on El Camino Real
4

--- page 471 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION (con’t)
• Removal of 6 trees
• 5 Protected Trees
• Tree replacement:
• 2 new Japanese Maple trees
• Payment of in-lieu fees
• 3,260 of open space
• 2,550 sf of usable open space 
(includes balconies and 
outdoor common areas)
• 23 bicycle parking spaces
5

--- page 472 ---
DENSITY BONUS
7
Allowable density 
w/ concession & 
w/o DB:
Allowable density 
w/ concession & 
w/ 50% DB: 
Proposed density:
DU/AC
44
66
62
DUs on project site 
(0.29 acre)
12
19
18
• 2 BMR units (VLI – 50% AMI)
• State DB parking standard: 0.5 spaces/DU (9 spaces/18 DU)

--- page 473 ---
DENSITY BONUS – CONCESSION
1) Reduce landscape 
buffer from ½ building 
height to 8’ to 10’
2) n/a
3) n/a
8

--- page 474 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
9

--- page 475 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 80’ to 70’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
10

--- page 476 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
11

--- page 477 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
12

--- page 478 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking 
stalls from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
13

--- page 479 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 
20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf to 
1 space/360 sf
14

--- page 480 ---
DENSITY BONUS – WAIVERS
1) Reduce min. parcel width requirement from 70’ to 80’
2) Increase in building height from 40’ to 42’-8”
3) Reduce min. ground floor office height from 15’ to 14’
4) Increase the allowable percentage of compact parking stalls 
from 30% to 59%
5) Increase the max. slope of driveway ramp from 18% to 20%
6) Reduce office parking requirements from 1 space/335 sf 
to 1 space/360 sf
15

--- page 481 ---
INCLUSIONARY HOUSING & COMMERCIAL 
LINKAGE FEE
1) Project proposes 16% VLI units, which exceeds the City’s 
requirement to either:
a)
Provide 15% low-income units, or
b)
Provide 10% very-low-income units
2) 2 or 3 VLI replacement rental units may be required
3) Project will not provide Affordable Housing Commercial 
Linkage Fee; not > 5,000 SF
16

--- page 482 ---
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS
17
Trip Generation
AM Peak Hour
PM Peak Hour
Net New Trips
12
15
Vehicle Miles Traveled 
(VMT)
Proposed Project
City’s Standard
VMT/Capita
14.8
13.1
VMT/Employee
22.2
15.3
Impacts will be reduced to a less than significant level through COAs

--- page 483 ---
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT 
(TDM) PLAN
Strategies include:
• Unbundled parking
• New resident & employee 
packets
• Bike share
• TDM coordinator
• TDM communications 
• and more.
18

--- page 484 ---
PUBLIC NOTICING
• Neighbors within 1,000’ of project site
• Interested Parties List
• 2 public comments received. Concerns 
include:
• Proposed use
• Removal of trees
• Potential Study Session
19
1,000’ radius

--- page 485 ---
RECOMMENDATION
• Determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in 
Attachment 1; and,
• Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for the 
construction of a new mixed-use building with ground floor office uses 
and 18 multi-family residential apartment units located at 1 Hayward 
Avenue.
20

--- page 486 ---
Thank You
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219
21

--- page 487 ---
CITY OF



--- page 488 ---
SECTION HEADER

—— CITY OF ———_


--- page 489 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 490 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 491 ---
O n e  H a y w a r d  A v e n u e
S a n  M a t e o ,  C A
P l a n n i n g  C o m m i s s i o n
M e e t i n g
M a y  1 0 ,  2 0 2 2

--- page 492 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
MERIDIAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT - ABOUT US
2
•
MERIDIAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT WAS FOUNDED 
IN 1997 AND SPECIALIZES IN REAL ESTATE AND 
PRIVATE INVESTMENTS
•
LOCAL FAMILY COMPANY HEADQUARTERED IN 
REDWOOD CITY
•
PLANS TO LONG TERM HOLD AND MANAGE THE 
PROJECT
•
ONE HAYWARD IS OUR FIRST PROJECT IN SAN MATEO 
AND EXCITED ABOUT DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITY

--- page 493 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
WHY THIS PROJECT
3
•
Provides much needed housing in San Mateo, including 2 Below 
Market Rate units
•
Provides housing adjacent to existing downtown amenities, 
including mass transit
•
Provides for Transportation Demand Measures (TDM) to reduce 
vehicle trips and promote alternative transportation modes
•
Housing focused with small commercial component which provides a 
ground floor interface along the El Camino
•
Improved pedestrian experience along El Camino with widened 
sidewalks, streetscape amenities, and plaza at corner
•
Enhances the Hayward Avenue Gateway to the existing 
neighborhood and downtown San Mateo
•
Enhances both pedestrian and vehicular safety on El Camino with 
removal of curb cuts and wider sidewalks

--- page 494 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
4
PROJECT SITE
HAYWARD STATION
0.8 MILE WALK 
5 MIN BY BIKE
-
1 MILE RADIUS – 15 MINUTE WALK
Neighborhood Context
DOWNTOWN STATION
0.8 MILE WALK 
5 MIN BY BIKE
CENTRAL PARK
0.25 MILE WALK 
BUS STOP
0.3 MILE WALK

--- page 495 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
PROJECT SITE
5
PROJECT SITE
5 MIN. (0.3 MILE) 
WALK TO 
CALTRAIN STATION
EL CAMINO REAL
E. 3RD AVE.
E. 2ND AVE.
E. 1ST AVE.
E. 4TH AVE.
S. ELLSWORTH AVE.
PROJECT SITE
9TH AVE
EL CAMINO REAL
HAYWARD AVE

--- page 496 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
EXISTING CONDITIONS
6
•
SITE AT CORNER OF EL CAMINO REAL AND HAYWARD AVE
•
SITE AREA – 12,820 S.F. / 0.29 ACRES
•
CURRENT USE – THREE TWO-STORY BUILDINGS 
                                 COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL USES
VIEW OF EXISTING SITE FROM EL CAMINO REAL

--- page 497 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
PROJECT HISTORY
7
•
Community Meeting held 9/25/19
•
Worked closely with staff throughout process
•
Responded to comments from staff and neighbors
•
Design Changes and Project Enhancements Include:
•
Further screening and landscape buffer to adjacent residential
•
Enhancing façade details including balcony rails
•
Improved pedestrian experience along El Camino with widened 
sidewalks, streetscape amenities, and plaza at corner
•
Primary residential views toward El Camino and Hayward
•
Refined massing and balconies
•
Adjusted materials and color palette
•
Removal of existing curb cuts and signage on El Camino
•
Open space buffer at grade
•
Offset window locations for privacy with adjacent condos
•
Open air corridor to units with screening for condos

--- page 498 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
PROPOSED PROJECT
8
•
MIXED USE BUILDING – 4 STORIES 
•
TRANSIT ORIENTED PROJECT ALONG EL CAMINO CORRDIDOR
•
GROUND FLOOR 4,495 SF OFFICE AND RESIDENTIAL LOBBY
•
3 LEVELS OF RESIDENTIAL APARTMENTS
•
18 1BDRM UNITS TOTAL
•
2 BMR UNITS
•
ONE LEVEL BELOW GRADE PARKING
•
22 TOTAL SPACES
•
9 RESIDENTIAL STALLS- SECURE
•
13 OFFICE STALLS
•
OFFICE STALLS SHARED AFTER BUSINESS HOURS

--- page 499 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
PROJECT SITE PLAN
9
Pedestrian
 Plaza
Shared Courtyard & Landscape 
Buffer
Widened Sidewalks/Street Amenities
Hayward Park Condominiums
Dental
Office
Secur
e  
Gate
Secur
e  
Gate
Office
Setback above 
at Residential

--- page 500 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
BELOW GRADE PARKING
10
Residenti
al
Parking
Commercial
Parking

--- page 501 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
FLOOR PLANS
11
Office
Lobby
Garage
Ramp
Open Air Corridor
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 502 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
THIRD LEVEL AND FOURTH LEVEL PLANS
12
Open Air Corridor
Open Air Corridor
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL

--- page 503 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
SIDEWALK VIEW – EL CAMINO REAL
13

--- page 504 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
ENLARGED SIDEWALK VIEW – EL CAMINO REAL
14

--- page 505 ---
ONE HAYWARD

? =

—=

__s



--- page 506 ---
ONE HAYWARD

Mie

16
anc TEC


--- page 507 ---
ONE HAYWARD

THANK YOU — ANY QUESTIONS?

all

NY

NN
a tT

|
i;

=
—
se
a
—

AL

——

MN

HTL TTL
|

TL

ARC TEC


--- page 508 ---
ARC TEC


--- page 509 ---
ONE HAYWARD

Screening Planting Types

19

ARC TEC


--- page 510 ---
ONE HAYWARD

ARC TEC


--- page 511 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
SOUTH EAST AND SOUTH WEST ELEVATIONS
21

--- page 512 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
SOUTH EAST AND SOUTH WEST ELEVATIONS
22

--- page 513 ---
O N E  H A Y W A R D
ROOF PLANS
23
Office: 5,199 
SF

--- page 514 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-6072
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 10, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Pre-Application for a Proposed Four-Story Mixed-Use Office and Commercial Building at 31 – 57 S. B Street (PA-2021-082)
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the project on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the applicant and staff on the 
proposed project, with specific focus on the following project elements:
1.
Rezoning – Zoning reclassification request from C1-2/R5 to CBD;
2.
Building Design and Massing – Architectural style and transition with surrounding buildings; 
3.
Public Right-of-Way Improvements – Proposed sidewalk widths on B Street and First Avenue; and
4.
Other project aspects that should be considered during the formal planning application.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC, has submitted a Preliminary Planning Application (PA-2021-082) to 
demolish two existing commercial structures at 31 - 57 South B Street and construct a new four-story mixed-use building. 
The proposed building would consist of approximately 5,434 square feet of ground floor commercial space and 36,365 
square feet of office space. As proposed, the project would require a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the 
proposed mixed-use building and associated site improvements, a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for tree 
removal, and a zoning Reclassification from Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use (C1-2/R5) to 
Central Business District (CBD) in order to allow a Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of 3.0.  
As part of the Pre-Application Study Session, staff recommends the Planning Commission focus its review on the project’s 
building design and massing with respect to the Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines, the project’s street interface 
and encroachments into the public right-of-way on South B Street and First Avenue, the zoning reclassification request and 
other site and architectural design elements necessary to make positive findings to approve the project after the formal 
planning application is submitted. Additionally, staff requests that the Commission provide input and direction on other 
project aspects, if any, that should be considered during the formal planning application.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site
The project site has a General Plan Land Use designation of Downtown Retail Core and is zoned C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood 
Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use). The site is located within the Retail Core Sub-area of the Downtown Area 
Plan and is located on the same block as the Downtown Caltrain station. The land area of the site is approximately 0.37 
acres, or 16,413 square feet. 
The project site is bounded by South B Street to the west, a commercial building to the north, the Downtown Caltrain 
station to the east, and First Avenue to the south. It is also immediately adjacent to the Downtown Historic District and

--- page 515 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
located in an area of high archaeological sensitivity. The existing site consists of restaurant and retail/service spaces, a 
surface parking lot, and a shared alleyway providing back of house access to multiple properties. Surrounding uses include 
the Downtown Caltrain Station to the East, and mix of commercial uses to the north, west and south of the project site. 
Buildings along South B Street range between one to five stories in height (the latter with the development of 303 Baldwin 
Avenue at the former Trag’s Market site). Buildings along Baldwin and First Avenue range between one to four stories. 
Additionally, the buildings across South B Street and First Ave are historic or contributor buildings to the Downtown 
Historic District. A vicinity map is included as Attachment 1. 
Building Program and Site Plan
The proposed four-story mixed-use building has an approximate total floor area of 41,799 square feet, with 5,434 square 
feet of ground floor commercial space and 36,365 square feet of office space. The ground floor may be divided into 
multiple commercial/retail tenant spaces and the second through fourth floors consist of open floor plan that could also 
be utilized as multiple office spaces. The project also includes two ground level public gathering areas, and roof level 
common open space terraces accessible from the third and fourth floors. The proposed project does not include on-site 
parking; however, since the site is located within the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID), it can pay a fee in-lieu of 
providing the required on-site parking, provided there is sufficient capacity within the district. 
The Pre-Application plans are conceptual in nature and do not contain sufficient detail to determine compliance with 
applicable bicycle and loading zone requirements. The applicant has stated an intention of addressing loading function and 
back of business functions in the shared alley or the area adjacent to the alley. The formal planning application for this 
project will be reviewed by city departments for conformance with applicable requirements including vehicular parking, 
bicycle parking and loading spaces as required by the Zoning Code. 
The overall architectural style is categorized as contemporary due to its use of various building materials and massing 
techniques to distinguish between the ground level commercial uses and the upper level office uses in the building. A 
detailed discussion of the building’s design and massing are included below in the Items for Planning Commission 
Discussion section. Pre-application project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, elevations and architectural 
renderings are included in Attachment 2.
The project also proposes improvements in the public right-of-way that propose to modify the travel lane(s), on-street 
parking stalls, and sidewalk realm. The conceptual plans appear to conflict with city adopted plans and policies such as the 
Pedestrian Master Plan and Bicycle Master Plan. A detailed discussion of the public right-of-way changes are included 
below in the Items for Planning Commission Discussion section. 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core, which is intended to combine a 
diversity of uses to support a thriving downtown.  As a mixed-use commercial-office building, the project presently 
conforms to Land Use Element Policy LU1.10 Commercial Development, in that the project appears compatible with the 
desired character of the area by permitting commercial-office mixed-use developments, that contributes to maintaining 
downtown as the economic center of the city. The preliminary list of General Plan and other adopted policies applicable to 
the proposed project is included in Attachment 3 for the Commission’s consideration in this study session.
Zoning Code
The project site is currently zoned C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use), however, the 
applicant is requesting a zoning reclassification of the site to CBD (Central Business District). Without the rezoning, 
development standards applicable to the project default to the base C1-2 zoning district in Chapter 27.30 of the Municipal 
Code; and the project, as proposed, exceeds the district’s maximum 2.0 FAR. The /R5 overlay allows for a FAR of up to 3.0 
for residential or mixed-use projects with a residential component. Since the applicant is proposing a commercial-office 
mixed-use project, they are also requesting a zoning reclassification of the site to CBD, which would allow for a FAR up to 
3.0 and change the development standards applicable to the proposed project.

--- page 516 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The project site is also within the limits of the Primary Benefit Zone, a sub-area of the Central Parking and Improvement 
District (CPID). As a project within the CPID, the Municipal Code allows the project to default to the Zoning Code’s parking 
ratios or have a parking demand study prepared to determine project-specific parking ratios. As proposed, the applicant is 
requesting a parking demand study to determine the project specific parking and to pay the fee in-lieu of providing 
required parking spaces on-site, provided there is sufficient capacity within the CPID district to absorb the additional 
demand.   
The conceptual plans do not contain the level of detail that is necessary for staff to complete a comprehensive review of 
project’s conformance with applicable regulations; however, a preliminary project data sheet is included in Attachment 4.  
Downtown Plan
The project site is located within the City’s 2009 Downtown Area Plan. The Plan establishes goals and policies to 
implement the overall vision of the downtown area. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include:

Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place

Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses

Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown
The project site is within the Downtown Retail Core sub-area of the Downtown Plan. Recommended future conditions 
include permitting a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and downtown’s 
pedestrian oriented environment; and providing an entry feature at the entryways to downtown in the vicinity of South B 
Street/First Avenue intersection. Staff has communicated initial concerns rearding the project design to applicant in the 
pre-appliction comment letter dated March 7, 2022; and will conduct a more detailed review of the project’s conformance 
to the Downtown Plan upon filing of the formal planning application. For ease of reference, excerpts of the Downtown 
Plan are also included in Attachment 3.
Pedestrian Master Plan
The 2012 Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan contains recommendations to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the 
City. The Plan designates South B Street as a Greenway pedestrian corridor, which is intended to provide high quality 
pedestrian connections to residential areas, transit, recreation, and retail. Additional pedestrian amenities, public art, and 
wide sidewalks are recommended on these corridors to provide a distinguished pedestrian-friendly environment. 
Based on the configuration of street parking and mixed-use building type, the applicable sidewalk standard is A.6 
Retail/Commercial Type A Parallel Parking along the project’s frontages (refer to excerpt in Attachment 3). This standard 
recommends an overall sidewalk width ranging from 11’ to 15’ (or 11 to 15 feet). As presently designed, the conceptual 
plan proposes a sidewalk width as wide as 22’ to 24’ near the South B Street/First Avenue; and narrows to approximately 
16’ toward the north on South B Street and to 8’-4” (or 8 feet 4 inches) east toward the Caltrain station. The wider 
sidewalk is proposed to be achieved through extending the sidewalk into the on-street parking spaces and vehicular travel 
lane, and curb extensions (aka bulb outs) into the public right-of-way (ROW) at the intersections of South B Street/First 
Avenue and First Avenue/Transit Center Way. This proposed configuration will require additional evaluation during the 
formal planning application phase.
Based on the current C1-2/R5 zoning requirements, the project is not subject to any required setback along its South B 
Street frontage; however, in order to achieve the objective of the Pedestrian Master Plan’s 11’ to 15’ sidewalk the options 
include encroaching into the public ROW, incorporating a step back of the building line, or a combination of both. The 
project is proposing to encroach into the public ROW, between 16’ to 22’-4” along South B Street and 8’-4” to 24’ along 
First Avenue, which would affect the on-street parking area, travel lane and impact the City’s bike lane project on First 
Avenue. Staff is seeking Planning Commission input on the proposed changes in the public right-of-way. Additionally, the 
City Council will hold a future study session to provide direction regarding use of South B Street public right-of-way. Staff 
expects the applicant to further develop the site plan and sidewalk designs for greater consistency with the Pedestrian 
Master Plan based upon input from the Planning Commission and City Council study sessions. The City will conduct a more 
detailed review of the project’s conformance upon filing of the formal planning application.

--- page 517 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Bicycle Master Plan
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use. The Bicycle Master Plan also lays out a proposed bicycle network of various bicycle lanes, paths and 
routes. Specific to the area near the project site, the Bicycle Master Plan calls for a separated bike lane (Class IV) along the 
project’s South B Street frontage, and a buffered bike lane (Class II) along the project’s First Avenue frontage which is 
being implemented as part of a City project. As presently shown, the project proposes the curb lines are proposed to be 
relocated to accommodate wider sidewalks by narrowing the on-street parking area and vehicular travel lane. The 
proposed changes to the public ROW conflict with a current Bike Lane project on First Avenue and may affect the City’s 
ability to implement a future Separated Bike Lane along B Street (refer to excerpt of Bicycle Master Plan in Attachment 3). 
A full evaluation of the project’s consistency with the Bicycle Master Plan will be completed during the formal planning 
application phase.
ITEMS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION:
Zoning Reclassification
The project site currently has a zoning designation of C1-2/R5 with a base Floor Area Ratio (FAR) of 2.0 for 
commercial/office uses and up to 3.0 FAR for mixed-use that includes residential. The applicant proposes to reclassify the 
project site to CBD to match adjacent properties to the south and the west, that have the same land use designation 
(Downtown Retail Core). Following a review of city records, the proposed zoning appear to be consistent with the General 
Plan designation for this site and its inclusion within the Downtown Area Plan and application of the Downtown Retail Core 
Design Guidelines. The zoning reclassification planning application will require a recommendation from the Planning 
Commission with final decision by the City Council. Following the Pre-Application process, the formal planning application 
for the zoning reclassification may be processed concurrently with the development project or in advance, based on 
applicant’s preference.
Staff is seeking Planning Commission feedback regarding the reclassification as the proposed building is approximately 
41,700 square feet with a proposed FAR of 2.54, which exceeds the current base FAR of 2.0; but would be consistent with 
the 3.0 FAR allowed in the CBD designation.

Does the Commission have any input or feedback on the zoning reclassification request and its consistency with the 
General Plan?  Would a CBD zoning designation be appropriate for this site?
Building Design
The project’s overall architectural style can be considered Contemporary due to its use of building materials and massing 
techniques to distinguish it from commercial buildings in the nearby Downtown Historic District. The ground floor consists 
of large glass door and windows systems separated by brick columns to express the individual commercial entrances at the 
pedestrian level. The design utilizes brick, glass, metal, and wood borrowing from materials found in nearby Downtown 
buildings. The use of these materials along the building’s east, south and west frontages provides a pedestrian-scale base 
to the proposed building; however, the north elevation’s four-story blank wall may benefit from additional detailing where 
it transitions from the adjacent two-story building. Staff’s analysis of the conceptual design is included in the Pre-
Application Comment Letter (Attachment 6).
The proposed building height of 54-foot to the plate line is within the maximum allowable building height of 55 feet for 
this site. The building step back at the third floor along South B Street and at the fourth floor along First Avenue appears to 
be consistent with the street wall requirement for properties in the Downtown Plan area. 
To guide revisions to the project’s design before submittal of the formal application, staff is seeking Planning Commission 
input on the overall style, design elements, and massing of the building, and whether the proposed project is consistent 
with the General Plan, Downtown Plan, and Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines. When evaluating the design of the 
proposed building, staff recommends the Commission consider the following questions: 

Would the Planning Commission recommend improving the proposed project design to address the following:

--- page 518 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
A.
Relate height of new buildings to pattern of Downtown;
B.
Design building fronts that recognize the traditional lot widths in Downtown;
C.
Incorporate key architectural elements common to not buildings in Downtown;
D. Incorporate architectural detailing that is in scale with human proportions, adds interest and create three 
dimensional appearance to the building face;
E.
Incorporate recessed entrances to provide for window shopping, pedestrian standing room and protection from 
wind and rain;
F.
Incorporate different window sizes with larger windows at the ground floor to enhance the ground floor 
commercial uses and smaller windows on upper levels to distinguish it as a different use;
G. Utilize awnings/canopies to add depth to ground floor storefronts and provide location for future signage; and
K.
Incorporate design elements that provide for alley that is architecturally attractive, safe and inviting for 
pedestrians, and accommodates the necessary back of house services and loading?

Does the Planning Commission have other design or site comments? 
Upon filing of the formal planning application, staff will engage a third-party consultant for design review and consistency 
with the General Plan, Downtown Area Plan, Downtown Design Guidelines and to address any comments/concerns 
expressed by the Planning Commission if directed by the Commission.
Public Right-of-Way Improvements 
The project proposes approximately 16’ to 22’-4” of improvements along South B Street and 8’-4” to 24’ of improvements 
along First Avenue. These improvements within the public right-of-way appear to affect the travel lane(s), on-street 
parking area and sidewalk area; and conflict with city adopted Pedestrian Master Plan and Bicycle Master Plan. It is 
important to balance the needs of a variety of users given the city adopted plans and policies. Circulation connections such 
as those needed for the bicycle network require a comprehensive approach to evaluating the needs of the network and 
where new connections are needed. This is typically done by looking at connections across multiple blocks rather than on a 
block by block basis; however, the conceptual plans show changes that are proposed for this one block. Therefore, staff is 
seeking Planning Commission input on the proposed improvements within the public street right-of-way from the 
perspective of the pedestrian and bicycle network, as well as, balancing other users such as SamTrans, fire trucks, delivery 
trucks, and other vehicles.

Should the proposed sidewalk width be 11’ to 15’ to align with the Pedestrian Master Plan, or should a wider 
sidewalk be considered?

If wider sidewalks are desired, should that additional width be created in the public ROW, on private property or 
combination of both? 
It should also be noted that there will be a future City Council study session on the topic of prioritizing uses within the B 
Street ROW that will provide further direction.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting on April 11, 2022 in which six members of the public 
attended. Questions and comments regarding the following topics were expressed:

Building design, height and size;

Exterior materials;

Alley as an extension of Main Street; and

The proposed right-of-way changes.
The applicant’s neighborhood meeting summary and presentation is included in Attachment 7. Public comments 
submitted to City staff during the pre-application review are included in Attachment 8.  Any public comments received 
after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration at the study session and 
posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”

--- page 519 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the review of a pre-application is not a project under the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the Planning Commission is not taking action at this time. An 
environmental review will be conducted as part of the formal planning application in conformance with CEQA.
NEXT STEPS:
Following this Study Session, the applicant and project architect will have the opportunity to revise the design based on 
feedback given by the public and the Planning Commission. As currently proposed, the project is anticipated to require the 
following planning applications, which would be subject to approval by the Planning Commission:
1.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of a new mixed-use building; and 
2.
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for tree removal.
And the Zoning Reclassification to change the zoning designation from C1-2/R5 to CBD would require City Council 
approval.  
 
Sample Findings of Approval for the above planning application types are included as Attachment 9.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this
Study Session was noticed to the following parties at least 10 days in advance of the neighborhood meeting and 
Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 

utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be 
added to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Vicinity Map
Att 2 – Project Plans
Att 3 – Applicable Policies 
Att 4 – Data Sheet
Att 5 – Zoning and Required Retail Frontage Zone Maps 
Att 6 – Pre-Application Comment Letter
Att 7 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary and Presentation
Att 8 – Public Comments
Att 9 – Sample Findings
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216

--- page 520 ---
VICINITY MAP 
PA 2021-082 
31 S. B St., Pre-Application 
 
Address: 
31 – 57 S. B St. 
Parcel Number: 
034-154-030 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site

--- page 521 ---
BUILDING HEIGHT (FT.):
55' - 0"
NUMBER OF STORIES:
4
NUMBER OF BUILDINGS ON SITE:
1
OCCUPANCY TYPE: 
B, M
CONSTRUCTION TYPE (ASSUMES MASS TIMBER:
III-B (CBC TABLE 503, 601)
(MAY CHANGE IF MATERALS CHANGE)
PROPOSED BUILDING AREA PER CBC 2019:
1ST FLOOR
12,137 SF 
2ND FLOOR
11,286 SF
3RD FLOOR
9,853 SF
4TH FLOOR
8,523 SF
TOTAL:          
41,799 SF (2.55 FAR)
NOTE: 
PROPOSED BUILDING TO BE FULLY SPRINKLERED. BASE FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM TO MEET NFPA13 
REQUIREMENTS
PARKING ZONE:
CPID LIMITED PARKING ZONE (LPZ)
REQUIRED (SMMC 27.64.100)
RETAIL (1.9/1,000):
10 STALLS
OFFICE (2.6/1,000):
95 STALLS
PROVIDED:
0 - IN-LIEU FEE TO BE PAID
BIKE PARKING
SHORT TERM REQ'D - OFFICE (1/20,000 SF):
2
SHORT TERM REQ'D - RETAIL (1/2,000 SF):
4
LONG TERM REQ'D - OFFICE (1/10,000 SF):
4
LONG TERM REQ'D - RETAIL (1/12,000 SF):
1
PROVIDED SHORT TERM:
6
PROVIDED LONG TERM:
12
THIS SET OF DRAWINGS IS FOR A NEW 4-STORY MASS TIMBER OFFICE BUILDING OF APPROXIMATELY 
41,799 SF AT THE INTERSECTION OF S. B STREET AND 1ST AVENUE IN THE DOWNTOWN CORE OF SAN 
MATEO, CA. THIS PROJECT INCLUDES ON- AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDING GROUND-LEVEL AND 
TERRACE LANDSCAPING, A CORNER RETAIL PLAZA, AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS.
NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION WILL PURSUE USGBC LEED GOLD LEVEL, AND WILL BE IN FULL 
COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE. THE BUILDING IS ALSO EXPECTED TO RUN ON 
ALL-ELECTRIC SYSTEMS WITH A POTENTIAL EXCEPTION FOR A FUTURE RESTAURANT TENANT.
ADDRESS OF PROJECT:
31, 35, 43, 47, 57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBER:
034-054-030
EXISTING ZONING DISTRICT:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD)
DEPENDENT ON APPLICANT-LED ZONING AMENDMENT
2009 DOWNTOWN PLAN AREA:
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE
LOT SIZE (SQ. FT.):
+/- 16,413 SQ. FT.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
3.0
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA:
49,239 SQ. FT.
FRONT SETBACK:
NONE
SIDE SETBACK:
NONE
REAR SETBACK:
NONE
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (TITLE 24), EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2020:
• PART 1 - CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
• PART 2 - CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE, VOLUMES 1 AND 2
• PART 2.5 - CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL CODE
• PART 3 - CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
• PART 4 - CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
• PART 5 - CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
• PART 6 - CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
• PART 7 –VACANT/ NOT USED
• PART 8 - CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE
• PART 9 - CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
• PART 10 - CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE
• PART 11 - CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE (CALGREEN CODE)
• PART 12 - CALIFORNIA REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
• CAL/ OSHA – TITLE 8, 2019 ELEVATOR SAFETY CODE
• STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND DETAILS AND OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS ISSUED         
  BY AGENCIES HAVING JURISDICTION OVER THE PROJECT.
• THE WORK SHALL MEET OR EXCEED THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODES AND 
  REGULATIONS LISTED ABOVE, NCLUDING SUPPLEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS IN EFFECT AT 
  THE TIME THE DOCUMENTS WERE ISSUED
NOTES:
1. 
REQUIREMENTS PER 2019 CPC TABLE 422.1.
2. 
SQUARE FEET AREAS SHOWN ARE USABLE SPACES LESS ACCESSORY AREAS (HALLWAYS, RESTROOMS, STAIR 
ENCLOSURE, UTILITY ROOMS AND STORAGE ..) PER CPC TABLE A EXCEPTION
3. 
OCCUPANT LOAD FACTORS:
A.
ASSEMBLY; A2
30 SF
B.
OFFICE; B
200 SF
FIXTURES REQUIRED
WOMEN
MEN
DF
OCC 
(M/W)
AREA
OCC
GROUP
LEVEL
FIXTURES REQUIRED TOTAL
2 WC / 1 LAVS
1WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
1
FLR 3
23/23
8,950 SF
B
FLR 4
20/20
7,988 SF
B
1
LOAD 
FACTOR
200
87/87
2
7 WC / 4 LAVS
4 WC / 3 UR / 4 LAVS
2 WC / 1 LAVS
1WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
FIXTURES PROVIDED
4
7 WC / 7 LAVS
7 WC / 0 UR / 5 LAVS
4. 
CPC 2016 - 422.0 - 3  THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS FOR FEMALES SHALL BE NOT LESS 
THAN THE TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED WATER CLOSETS AND URINALS FOR MALES. [BSC] THIS 
REQUIREMENT SHALL NOT APPLY WHEN SINGLE OCCUPANCY TOILET FACILITIES ARE PROVIDED FOR EACH 
SEX IN AN A OR E OCCUPANCY WITH AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF LESS THAN 50. EITHER THE REQUIRED URINAL 
SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BE OMITTED OR IF INSTALLED, THE URINAL SHALL NOT REQUIRE A SECOND WATER 
CLOSET TO BE PROVIDED FOR THE FEMALE.
5. 
RESTROOMS ARE PROVIDED AS SINGLE-OCCUPANT FACILITIES. 50% ARE PROVIDED AS ACCESSIBLE.
2 WC / 1 LAVS
1WC / 1 UR / 1 LAVS
1
FLR 2
26/26
10,239 SF
B
1 WC / 1 LAVS
1WC / 0 UR / 1 LAVS
1
FLR 1
18/18
7,185 SF
M
200
200
200
PROJECT SITE
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:43 PM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.1
COVER SHEET
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
R ISSUED FOR REFERENCE ONLY
X ISSUED AS PART OF THIS SET
ISSUE LOG KEY:
SHEET #
SHEET NAME
PRE-APPLICATION
ISSUE #2
ISSUE #3
ISSUE #4
ISSUE #5
REMARKS
ARCHITECTURAL
A0.1
COVER SHEET
X
A0.2
FIRST AND SECOND FLOOR CODE PLANS
X
A0.3
THIRD AND FOURTH FLOOR CODE PLANS
X
A0.4
RENDERINGS
X
A0.5
RENDERINGS
X
A0.6
RENDERINGS
X
A0.7
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT
X
A1.0
EXISTING SITE PLAN
X
A1.1
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
X
A2.0
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
X
A2.1
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
X
A2.2
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
X
A2.3
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
X
A2.4
ROOF PLAN
X
A3.0
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
X
A4.0
BUILDING SECTIONS
X
CIVIL
C2.00
CONCEPT GRADING AND DRAINAGE
X
C2.50
CONCEPT UTILITIES
X
C6.00
CONCEPT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
X
LANDSCAPE
L1.00
GROUND FLOOR
X
L1.01
LEVEL 2 TERRACE
X
L1.02
LEVEL 3 TERRACE
X
L1.03
LEVEL 4 TERRACE
X
L1.04
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS (GROUND LEVEL)
X
L1.05
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS (GROUND LEVEL)
X
L1.06
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS (L2&3)
X
L1.07
LANDSCAPE RENDERINGS (LEVEL 4)
X
SHEET TOTAL: 27
OWNER
DTSM DONUT DELITE VENTURE, LLC
180 GRAND AVENUE, SUITE 1400
OAKLAND, CA 94612
PH: 510.466.1485
PRESTON O'CONNELL - PARTNER
ARCHITECT
RMW ARCHITECTURE & INTERIORS
30 E. SANTA CLARA STREET, SUITE 200
SAN JOSE, CA 95113
PH: 415.781.9800
RUSS NICHOLS - PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURAL
DCI ENGINEERS
135 MAIN STREET, SUITE 1800
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
PH: 415.781.1505
JEFF BRINK - PRINCIPAL
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROPOSED BUILDING DATA
APPLICABLE CODES
GENERAL INFORMATION
SHEET INDEX
CIVIL
SHERWOOD DESIGN ENGINEERS
2548 MISSION STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94110
PH: 415.677.7300
ELIZABETH LO - SR. PROJECT MANAGER
LANDSCAPE 
PLACE
735 NW 18TH AVENUE
PORTLAND, OR 97209
PH: 503.334.2080
CHARLES BRUCKER - PRINCIPAL
MECHANICAL - ELECTRICAL - PLUMBING
PAE ENGINEERS
48 GOLDEN GATE AVENUE
SAN FRANCISCO, CA  94102
PH: 415.544.7500
MOANA REYNAU - SR. ASSOCIATE
PROJECT TEAM
VICINITY MAP
PRE-APPLICATION PLANNING SUBMISSION FOR:
DONUT DELITE
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
PARKING CALCULATIONS
PLUMBING FIXTURE CALCULATIONS

--- page 522 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
119' - 1 1/4"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
112' - 1"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
FEC
FEC
148' - 0 1/32"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
105' - 1"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4 1/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1/
5120 SF
FUTURE
RETAIL
M
144
50
3
1/
1100 SF
LOBBY
A3
74
15
2
1/
493 SF
MAIN
ELEC.
B
2
300
1
1/
332 SF
TRANSFORMER
B
2
300
1
1/
224 SF
MPOE
B
1
300
1
1/
52 SF
EM. ELEC.
B
1
300
1
1/
50 SF
G.I.
B
1
300
1
1/
318 SF
TRASH
B
2
300
1
1/
370 SF
WATER/PUMP
B
2
300
1
1/
146 SF
ELEV.
EQMT.
B
1
300
1
1/
464 SF
FACILITIES
B
5
100
1
1/
113 SF
BIKE
B
2
100
1
1/
260 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
1/
249 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
ELEVATORS
3
36"
1"
OPENING
15
60"
3"
OPENING
43
60"
7"
OPENING
43
60"
7"
OPENING
15
60"
3"
OPENING
15
60"
3"
OPENING
15
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
14
60"
3"
OPENING
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1/
520 SF
TERRACE
A2
37
15
1
1/
10090 SF
OFFICE
B
103
100
2
1/
13 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
91 SF
IDF
B
1
300
1
1/
251 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
1/
73 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
239 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
ELEVATORS
1/
59 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
56 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
55
36"
9"
OPENING
55
60"
19"
STAIR
37
36"
6"
OPENING
58
60"
12"
STAIR
55
36"
9"
OPENING
PATH OF EGRESS ROUTE
MAX DIAGONAL DISTANCE
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION, CBC SECTION 1007.1.1, EXCEPTION 2
ILLUMINATED EXIT SIGN WITH 
DIRECTIONAL ARROWS (WHERE 
SHOWN)
1/
OFFICE
Occupancy
15
150 SF
100
1
ROOM TYPE
OCCUPANCY TYPE
CODE ROOM TAG
LOAD FACTOR
ROOM AREA
NO. OF REQD EXITS
CALCULATED OCCUPANCY LOAD
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT WITH ADA COMPLIANT SIGNAGE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET - RECESSED MOUNTED, UON
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SEPARATION  - ACCESS RADIUS 
RANGE OF 75" MAXIMUM
NTS
R = 75'
1 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL, (MAX 100 FEET PER CBC 
TBL1006.3.2(2)
REQUIRED POINT OF EGRESS
E
ER
ESD
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT ROUTE" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:   " EXIT STAIR DOWN" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
171
26"
72"
OPENING OR  STAIR (WHERE INDICATED)
OCC LOAD SERVED
REQD WIDTH
PROVIDED WIDTH
[PH]
PANIC HARDWARE REQUIRED FOR  NON-RATED DOORS
[PHR]
PANIC HARDWARE - RATED REQUIRED FOR RATED DOORS
AE
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE ROUTE (MAX 300 FEET 
PER CBC TBL 1017.2)
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
(SEE EXIT WIDTH CALCS AT POINT OF EGRESS CHART)
OP-XX
CR
ELECTRONIC CARD READER DEVICE
TI AREA NON-RATED
NEW PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
1 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
2 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPES
TRAVEL ROUTE AND DISTANCE TO NEAREST FEC (MAX 75')
EXIT ROUTE SIGNAGE
A
B
C
OCCUPANT LOAD SIGN TO BE MINIMUM 8-1/2 “X 11” WITH CONTRASTING 
BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS NOT LESS THAN 3/4” HIGH AND 1/16” STROKE. 
SIGN SHALL INDICATE USE OF ROOM AND ADDRESS OF OCCUPANCY 
D
2 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
TOTAL STAIR WIDTH
TOTAL EGRESS WIDTH
FACTOR = 0.15
FACTOR = 0.2
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXITS
OCCUPANT LOAD
LEVEL
REQUIRED
236 OCC
FLR 1
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
35.4"
900"
NA
NA
2
13
NOTES:
1.
CALCULATIONS IN THIS TABLE ARE BASED ON 2016 CBC SECTION 1005.3 
2.
EGRESS WIDTHS BASED ON CBC SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2
3.
EGRESS WIDTH MEETS CBC SECTION 1005.5 FOR DISTRIBUTION OF MINIMUM WIDTH AND REQUIRED CAPACITY
147 OCC
FLR 2
22.05"
72"
29.4"
120"
2
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:43 PM
As indicated
A0.2
FIRST AND SECOND
FLOOR CODE PLANS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
CODE PLAN LEVEL 1
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
CODE PLAN LEVEL 2
OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATION
EXIT WIDTH CALCULATION
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
KEYNOTES
1. 
SHEET NOTES AND KEY NOTES ARE FOR THE C+S SCOPE OF WORK AND ARE SPECIFIC TO THIS SHEET ONLY, UON
THE ITEMS BELOW ARE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY. ALL 2019 CBC REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE ADHERED TO.
2. 
THE OCCUPANCIES FOR THE TENANT SPACES WERE CALCULATED PER CBC TABLE 1004.1.2.
3. 
REQUIRED EXITS ARE PLACED AT LEAST 1/3 THE CALCULATED DISTANCE FROM THE FARTHEST POINTS OF THE NEW 
SPACE. (CBC SECTION 1007.1.1 EXCEPTION 2).
4. 
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE IS 250'-0" FOR A OCCUPANCY AND 300'-0" FOR B OCCUPANCY; CBC TABLE 1017.2.
5. 
EGRESS WIDTH CALCULATIONS FOR OPENINGS AND STAIRS IS BASEB UPON CBC, SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2. 
6. 
EXCEPTION 1
- EXIT OPENING WIDTH FACTOR  = 0.15 X OCCUPANT LOAD
- STAIR WIDTH FACTOR 
    = 0.2 X OCCUPANT LOAD
7. 
EGRESS WIDTH AND EXIT COMPONENTS IS BASED UPON CBC SECTION 1005.3.
8. 
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED EXITS IS BASED UPON CBC TABLE 1006.2.1.
9. 
REFER TO DOOR SCHEDULE FOR DOOR AND FRAME TYPES, RATINGS, SIZE AND HARDWARE TYPES.
10. 
ALL DOORS SHALL HAVE CLEAR WIDTH NOT LESS LESS THAN 32" PER CBC SECTION 1010.1.1, UON.
11. 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR C+S SCOPE OR WORK. LOCATE A MAXIMUM OF 75 FEET FROM ANY 
12. 
LOCATION WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA AND 100 FEET BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL FEC UNITS; 3,000 SF PER CABINET. LOCATE 
UNITS WHERE SHOWN OR AS DIRECTED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CBC 
SECTION 906 AND TABLE 906.3.1. FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO BE MOUNTED ON FREE STANDING PEDESTALS. LARSEN'S MP5 WITH RATING 2A 10B:C, 5 LBS CAPACITY.
13. 
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-703 FOR SIGNAGE.
14. 
PROVIDE SYMBOL OF ACCESSIBILITY AT FRONT ENTRANCE.
15. 
PROVIDE STAIRWELL TACTILE EXIT SIGNAGE PER CODE REQUIREMENT.  REFER TO TACTILE SIGNAGE NOTES (2019 CBC
SECTION 1023.9 AND 11B-504.8). REFER TO ENLARGED STAIR PLANS.
16. 
ALL INTERIOR TACTILE EGRESS SIGNAGE TO BE PROVIDE DURING FUTURE TI PHASE.
17. 
ALL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND ROOMS CONTAINING CONTROLS FOR AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, SPRINKLER
RISERS AND VALVES, OR OTHER SUPPRESSION OR CONTROL ELEMENTS SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY APPROVED SIGNAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PER SECTION 509, 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE. COORDINATE SIGNAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS WITH LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL JURISDICTION.
18. 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
19. 
THE MAXIMUM REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION IS BASED UPON CBC, SECTION 1007.1.
20. 
RESTROOM FIXTURE CALCULATION BASED UPON 2019 CPC CODE:
A.   REQUIREMENTS PER 1029 CPC TABLE 422.1.
B.   AREA SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN INCLUDES USABLE SPACES, LESS ACCESSORY AREAS, (HALLWAYS, CIRCULATION, 
      RESTROOM, STAIR ENCLOSURE, UTILITY/STORAGE ROOMS, PER TABLE A EXCEPTION.
C.  OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS USED INCLUDE:
     -    ASSEMBLY: A2, A3 = 1/30
     -    BUSINESS: B = 1/200
21. 
ALL REQUIRED OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS FOR THE FUTURE MIXED OCCUPANCY ZONES TO BE DETERMINED DURING THE 
FUTURE TI SCOPE OF WORK.
KEY NOTE SYMBOL USED ON DRAWINGS
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 1
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
BIKE
B
113 SF
100
2
EM. ELEC.
B
52 SF
300
1
FACILITIES
B
464 SF
100
5
FUTURE OFFICE
1956 SF
FUTURE RETAIL
M
5120 SF
50
103
G.I.
B
50 SF
300
1
LOBBY
A3
1100 SF
15
74
MAIN ELEC.
B
493 SF
300
2
MPOE
B
224 SF
300
1
TRANSFORMER
B
332 SF
300
2
TRASH
B
318 SF
300
2
WATER/PUMP
B
370 SF
300
2
10592 SF
195
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 2
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
59 SF
100
1
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
56 SF
100
1
ELEC
B
13 SF
300
1
ELEC
B
73 SF
300
1
IDF
B
91 SF
300
1
OFFICE
B
10090 SF
100
101
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
TERRACE
A2
520 SF
15
35
10981 SF
143

--- page 523 ---
FEC
148' - 0 1/32"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
104' - 9"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
FEC
148' - 0 1/32"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
105' - 1"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4"
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION PROVIDED
22' - 4 1/8"
MAX. DIAGONAL DISTANCE
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1/
1306 SF
TERRACE
A2
87
15
2
1/
13 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
91 SF
IDF
B
1
300
1
1/
8784 SF
OFFICE
B
90
100
2
1/
239 SF
STAIR 1
B
3
100
1
ELEVATORS
1/
73 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
59 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
56 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
251 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
97
60"
20"
STAIR
92
36"
14"
OPENING
97
60"
20"
STAIR
92
36"
14"
OPENING
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1/
1139 SF
TERRACE
A2
81
15
2
1/
13 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
7756 SF
OFFICE
B
78
100
2
1/
239 SF
STAIR  1
B
3
100
1
ELEVATORS
1/
59 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
39 SF
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
56 SF
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
1
100
1
1/
73 SF
ELEC
B
1
300
1
1/
91 SF
IDF
B
1
300
1
1/
251 SF
STAIR 2
B
3
100
1
127
60"
25"
STAIR
81
36"
13"
OPENING
43
36"
7"
OPENING
46
60"
9"
STAIR
43
36"
7"
OPENING
PATH OF EGRESS ROUTE
MAX DIAGONAL DISTANCE
ACTUAL EXIT SEPARATION, CBC SECTION 1007.1.1, EXCEPTION 2
ILLUMINATED EXIT SIGN WITH 
DIRECTIONAL ARROWS (WHERE 
SHOWN)
1/
OFFICE
Occupancy
15
150 SF
100
1
ROOM TYPE
OCCUPANCY TYPE
CODE ROOM TAG
LOAD FACTOR
ROOM AREA
NO. OF REQD EXITS
CALCULATED OCCUPANCY LOAD
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
ACCESSIBLE ENTRANCE / EXIT WITH ADA COMPLIANT SIGNAGE
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET - RECESSED MOUNTED, UON
FEC
FIRE EXTINGUISHER SEPARATION  - ACCESS RADIUS 
RANGE OF 75" MAXIMUM
NTS
R = 75'
1 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
COMMON PATH OF EGRESS TRAVEL, (MAX 100 FEET PER CBC 
TBL1006.3.2(2)
REQUIRED POINT OF EGRESS
E
ER
ESD
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:  "EXIT ROUTE" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
- TACTILE SIGNAGE:   " EXIT STAIR DOWN" (SEE DETAIL 11/A9.6.1)
171
26"
72"
OPENING OR  STAIR (WHERE INDICATED)
OCC LOAD SERVED
REQD WIDTH
PROVIDED WIDTH
[PH]
PANIC HARDWARE REQUIRED FOR  NON-RATED DOORS
[PHR]
PANIC HARDWARE - RATED REQUIRED FOR RATED DOORS
AE
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE ROUTE (MAX 300 FEET 
PER CBC TBL 1017.2)
EGRESS LOADS/WIDTHS FOR EXIT OPENING AND STAIR
(SEE EXIT WIDTH CALCS AT POINT OF EGRESS CHART)
OP-XX
CR
ELECTRONIC CARD READER DEVICE
TI AREA NON-RATED
NEW PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
1 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPE
2 - HOUR RATED PARTITION, SEE FLOOR PLANS FOR PARTITION TYPES
TRAVEL ROUTE AND DISTANCE TO NEAREST FEC (MAX 75')
EXIT ROUTE SIGNAGE
A
B
C
OCCUPANT LOAD SIGN TO BE MINIMUM 8-1/2 “X 11” WITH CONTRASTING 
BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS NOT LESS THAN 3/4” HIGH AND 1/16” STROKE. 
SIGN SHALL INDICATE USE OF ROOM AND ADDRESS OF OCCUPANCY 
D
2 - HOUR RATED ROOM 
TOTAL STAIR WIDTH
TOTAL EGRESS WIDTH
FACTOR = 0.15
FACTOR = 0.2
TOTAL NUMBER OF EXITS
OCCUPANT LOAD
LEVEL
REQUIRED
184 OCC
FLR 3
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
REQUIRED
PROVIDED
27.6"
72"
36.8"
180"
2
2
NOTES:
1.
CALCULATIONS IN THIS TABLE ARE BASED ON 2016 CBC SECTION 1005.3 
2.
EGRESS WIDTHS BASED ON CBC SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2
3.
EGRESS WIDTH MEETS CBC SECTION 1005.5 FOR DISTRIBUTION OF MINIMUM WIDTH AND REQUIRED CAPACITY
166 OCC
FLR 4
24.9"
33.2"
2
2
72"
180"
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:44 PM
As indicated
A0.3
THIRD AND FOURTH
FLOOR CODE PLANS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
CODE PLAN LEVEL 3
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
CODE PLAN LEVEL 4
OCCUPANT LOAD CALCULATION
EXIT WIDTH CALCULATION
LEGEND
SHEET NOTES
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 3
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
59 SF
100
1
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
56 SF
100
1
ELEC
B
13 SF
300
1
ELEC
B
73 SF
300
1
IDF
B
91 SF
300
1
OFFICE
B
8784 SF
100
88
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
TERRACE
A2
1306 SF
15
88
10461 SF
183
Code Plan-Occupancy Schedule - Level 4
NAME
OCCUPANCY AREA (SF)
LOAD FACTOR
OCCUPANT LOAD
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
59 SF
100
1
ACCESSIBLE
RESTROOM
B
56 SF
100
1
ELEC
B
73 SF
300
1
ELEC
B
13 SF
300
1
IDF
B
91 SF
300
1
OFFICE
B
7756 SF
100
78
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
RESTROOM
B
39 SF
100
1
TERRACE
A2
1139 SF
15
76
9266 SF
161
KEYNOTES
1. 
SHEET NOTES AND KEY NOTES ARE FOR THE C+S SCOPE OF WORK AND ARE SPECIFIC TO THIS SHEET ONLY, UON
THE ITEMS BELOW ARE HIGHLIGHTS ONLY. ALL 2019 CBC REQUIREMENTS SHALL BE ADHERED TO.
2. 
THE OCCUPANCIES FOR THE TENANT SPACES WERE CALCULATED PER CBC TABLE 1004.1.2.
3. 
REQUIRED EXITS ARE PLACED AT LEAST 1/3 THE CALCULATED DISTANCE FROM THE FARTHEST POINTS OF THE NEW 
SPACE. (CBC SECTION 1007.1.1 EXCEPTION 2).
4. 
MAXIMUM EXIT TRAVEL DISTANCE IS 250'-0" FOR A OCCUPANCY AND 300'-0" FOR B OCCUPANCY; CBC TABLE 1017.2.
5. 
EGRESS WIDTH CALCULATIONS FOR OPENINGS AND STAIRS IS BASEB UPON CBC, SECTION 1005.3.1 AND 1005.3.2. 
6. 
EXCEPTION 1
- EXIT OPENING WIDTH FACTOR  = 0.15 X OCCUPANT LOAD
- STAIR WIDTH FACTOR 
    = 0.2 X OCCUPANT LOAD
7. 
EGRESS WIDTH AND EXIT COMPONENTS IS BASED UPON CBC SECTION 1005.3.
8. 
THE NUMBER OF REQUIRED EXITS IS BASED UPON CBC TABLE 1006.2.1.
9. 
REFER TO DOOR SCHEDULE FOR DOOR AND FRAME TYPES, RATINGS, SIZE AND HARDWARE TYPES.
10. 
ALL DOORS SHALL HAVE CLEAR WIDTH NOT LESS LESS THAN 32" PER CBC SECTION 1010.1.1, UON.
11. 
PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR C+S SCOPE OR WORK. LOCATE A MAXIMUM OF 75 FEET FROM ANY 
12. 
LOCATION WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA AND 100 FEET BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL FEC UNITS; 3,000 SF PER CABINET. LOCATE 
UNITS WHERE SHOWN OR AS DIRECTED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL. FIRE EXTINGUISHERS SHALL COMPLY WITH 2019 CBC 
SECTION 906 AND TABLE 906.3.1. FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS TO BE MOUNTED ON FREE STANDING PEDESTALS. LARSEN'S MP5 WITH RATING 2A 10B:C, 5 LBS CAPACITY.
13. 
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-703 FOR SIGNAGE.
14. 
PROVIDE SYMBOL OF ACCESSIBILITY AT FRONT ENTRANCE.
15. 
PROVIDE STAIRWELL TACTILE EXIT SIGNAGE PER CODE REQUIREMENT.  REFER TO TACTILE SIGNAGE NOTES (2019 CBC
SECTION 1023.9 AND 11B-504.8). REFER TO ENLARGED STAIR PLANS.
16. 
ALL INTERIOR TACTILE EGRESS SIGNAGE TO BE PROVIDE DURING FUTURE TI PHASE.
17. 
ALL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT AND ROOMS CONTAINING CONTROLS FOR AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, SPRINKLER
RISERS AND VALVES, OR OTHER SUPPRESSION OR CONTROL ELEMENTS SHALL BE IDENTIFIED BY APPROVED SIGNAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE BY FIRE DEPARTMENT PER SECTION 509, 2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE. COORDINATE SIGNAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACCESS WITH LOCAL FIRE MARSHAL JURISDICTION.
18. 
PROVIDE EMERGENCY VOICE/ALARM COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.
19. 
THE MAXIMUM REQUIRED EXIT SEPARATION IS BASED UPON CBC, SECTION 1007.1.
20. 
RESTROOM FIXTURE CALCULATION BASED UPON 2019 CPC CODE:
A.   REQUIREMENTS PER 1029 CPC TABLE 422.1.
B.   AREA SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN INCLUDES USABLE SPACES, LESS ACCESSORY AREAS, (HALLWAYS, CIRCULATION, 
      RESTROOM, STAIR ENCLOSURE, UTILITY/STORAGE ROOMS, PER TABLE A EXCEPTION.
C.  OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTORS USED INCLUDE:
     -    ASSEMBLY: A2, A3 = 1/30
     -    BUSINESS: B = 1/200
21. 
ALL REQUIRED OCCUPANCY SEPARATIONS FOR THE FUTURE MIXED OCCUPANCY ZONES TO BE DETERMINED DURING THE 
FUTURE TI SCOPE OF WORK.
KEY NOTE SYMBOL USED ON DRAWINGS

--- page 524 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:44 PM
A0.4
RENDERINGS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1
CORNER VIEW
NO SCALE

--- page 525 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:44 PM
A0.5
RENDERINGS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1
1ST AVE VIEW
NO SCALE
1
B ST VIEW
NO SCALE

--- page 526 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:44 PM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.6
RENDERINGS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1
OFFICE ENTRY ELEVATION
NO SCALE
2
1ST AVE ELEVATION
NO SCALE
3
B ST ALTERNATE VIEW
NO SCALE
4
CORNER PLAZA VIEW
NO SCALE
5
3RD TERRACE VIEW
NO SCALE

--- page 527 ---
PROPOSED BUILDING
CALTRAIN STATION
PROPOSED BUILDING
COMMERCIAL/RESTAURANT
RESTAURANT
RESTAURANT
RESTAURANT
RESTAURANT
GARAGE/COMMERCIAL
RESTAURANT
COMMERCIAL
1ST AVE
S B STREET
BALDWIN AVE
N B STREET
TRANSIT CENTER WAY
TRANSIT CENTER WAY
COMMERCIAL
RESTAURANT
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
OFFICE/RESIDENTIAL
3
4
5
7
8
10
12
1
6
9
11
2
1. UNDER CONSTRUCTION OFFICE/RESIDENTIAL
3. COMMERCIAL/RESTAURANT
2. RESTAURANT
4. RESTAURANT
7. RESTAURANT
8. COMMERCIAL
5. RESTAURANT
6. RESTAURANT
11. PARKING LOT/ALLEY
12. CALTRAIN STATION
9. COMMERCIAL
10. PARKING GARAGE/COMMERCIAL
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:45 PM
12" = 1'-0"
A0.7
NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021

--- page 528 ---
N48°40'00"E  35.00'
N41°20'00"W  126.2'
N48°41'41"E  110.0'
N41°20'00"W  126.2'
CHEN
IZMIRIAN
PM
PM
TS BOX
SL
SL
NEWSPAPER
STAND
SL BOX
PM
WV
FH
TS BOX
2-WMs
3-WMs
PM
SSCO
BENCH
SL
BOX
SL
BENCH
WM
PAC
BELL
SL
BOX
SL
PGE
CATV
UTIL
BOX
SSCO
SSCO
SEWER
BOX
BFP
FDC
BOLLARDS
CAR
CHARGER
SL
CAR
CHARGER
CAR
CHARGER
SL
CAR
CHARGER
SL
AC
CONC
CONCRETE
DRIVE ISLE / PARKING AREA
DRIVEWAY
DRIVEWAY
DRIVEWAY
UTILITY
BOX
BEL
PAC BELL
CONCRETE
DRIVE ISLE / PARKING AREA
ADA
RAMP
ADA
RAMP
AC PVMT/PARKING AREA
WALL
WALL
1
2
1
4
5
5
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:45 PM
1" = 10'-0"
A1.0
EXISTING SITE PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1" = 10'-0"
2
EXISTING SITE PLAN
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
EXISTING BUILDING TO BE REMOVED
2
EXISTING PAVEMENT AND PARKING AREA TO BE REMOVED
4
EXISTING DRIVEWAY TO BE REMOVED
5
EXISTING CURB TO BE MODIFIED PER CIVIL DRAWINGS
KEYNOTES

--- page 529 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
1
2
PROPOSED BUILDING FOOTPRINT
12,137 SF 
3
3
3
3
4
5
5
5
110' - 0"
20' - 0"
126' - 2 3/4"
19' - 0"
27' - 8 1/2"
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:46 PM
1" = 10'-0"
A1.1
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1" = 10'-0"
1
SITE PLAN
KEYNOTES
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
PROPOSED BUILDING
2
PROPOSED OUTDOOR PLAZA
3
PROPOSED PLANTING AREAS. REFER TO LANDSCAPE AND CIVIL DRAWINGS
4
PORTION OF EXISTING CMU WALL TO REMAIN
5
PROPOSED IMRPOVEMENTS TO PUBLIC R.O.W. REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS

--- page 530 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
FEC
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
101A
FUTURE RETAIL
100
LOBBY
109
MAIN ELEC.
________
A3.0
4
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
111
TRANSFORMER
112
MPOE
110
EM. ELEC.
108
G.I.
107
TRASH
106
WATER/PUMP
105
ELEV. EQMT.
104
FACILITIES
113
BIKE
102
STAIR 1
103
STAIR 2
20' - 0"
20' - 0"
20' - 0"
20' - 0"
20' - 0"
100' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
24' - 6"
114' - 6"
1
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
2' - 9 7/8"
12' - 5 5/8"
3' - 4"
7' - 2"
4"2' - 10"
9 7/8"
5
1
3 CU YD 
3 CU YD
PALLET
STAGING
3 CU YD
0.5 CU YD
0.5 CU YD
101B
FUTURE OFFICE
3' - 7"
4" 3' - 7"
4"
3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
4"2' - 10"4"
4"2' - 10"4"
4"2' - 10"4"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7"
4"
4"2' - 10"4"
4"2' - 10"4"
4" 3' - 7"
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:48 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A2.0
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FIRST FLOOR PLAN
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
3
STEEL BRACE FRAME
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
OUTLINE OF FLOOR ABOVE

--- page 531 ---
FEC
FEC
FEC
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
201
TERRACE
200
OFFICE
208
IDF
________
A3.0
4
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.0
3
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
5
1
4
6
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7"
3' - 7"
4"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7" 4"
4" 3' - 7"
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
4"
3' - 7"
4"
3' - 7"
3' - 7"
207
ELEC
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:49 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A2.1
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
3
STEEL BRACE FRAME
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
LOBBY ENTRY CANOPY BELOW
6
UNCOVERED TENANT TERRACE

--- page 532 ---
FEC
FEC
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
301
TERRACE
308
IDF
309
OFFICE
________
A3.0
4
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.0
3
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
5
1
4
6
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
4" 3' - 7"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7" 4" 3' - 7" 4"
3' - 7"
4"
3' - 7"
4"
307
ELEC
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:50 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A2.2
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
DARK FRAMED STOREFRONT GLAZING, TYP.
2
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
3
STEEL BRACE FRAME
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
6
UNCOVERED TENANT TERRACE (TO BE SUBDIVIDED AS PART OF FUTURE TENANT IMPROVEMENTS)

--- page 533 ---
FEC
FEC
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
401
TERRACE
206
OFFICE
________
A3.0
4
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
1
4
5
402
ELEC
403
IDF
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:08:50 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A2.3
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
BUTT-JOINT GLAZED CURTAINWALL SYSTEM
2
MASS TIMBER STRUCTURAL COLUMN, TYP.
3
STEEL BRACE FRAME
4
MECHANICAL SHAFT
5
UNCOVERED TENANT TERRACE

--- page 534 ---
FEC
NIC (NOT IN CONTRACT)
NEW PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG, SEE SHEET
NEW FIRE RATED PARTITION / CONSTRUCTION WITH TAG
NEW FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND CABINET
NEW DOOR ASSEMBLY
1
A
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
1
A4.0
__________
2
A4.0
__________
________
A3.0
4
________
A3.0
1
________
A3.0
2
________
A3.0
3
3
5
1
1
2
4
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:09:05 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A2.4
ROOF PLAN
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
KEYNOTES
LEGEND
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
ROOF PLAN
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
ROOF PARAPET AND SOFFIT BELOW
2
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SCREEN
3
ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
4
ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE
5
PROPOSED SOLAR ARRAY (FINAL AREA AND LAYOUT TO BE DETERMINED)

--- page 535 ---
FLOOR 1
0"
1
FLOOR 3
28' - 0"
FLOOR 2
15' - 0"
FLOOR 4
41' - 0"
2
3
4
5
6
ROOF
54' - 0"
1
A4.0
__________
GL-1
BR-1
GL-1
GL-4
WD-1
GL-1 3
2
ST-1
WP-1
MS-1
FLOOR 1
0"
A
FLOOR 3
28' - 0"
FLOOR 2
15' - 0"
FLOOR 4
41' - 0"
B
C
D
E
ROOF
54' - 0"
2
A4.0
__________
BR-1
GL-2
CP-1
GL-1
MS-1
RC-1
GL-2
ST-1
WD-1
ST-1
GL-4
BR-1
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
A4.0
__________
ST-1
CP-1
BR-1
GL-4
GL-1
RC-1
MS-1
ST-1
ST-1
A
B
C
D
E
2
A4.0
__________
BR-1
ST-1
GL-2
GL-4
GL-1
GL-3
ST-1
BR-1
GL-2
CP-1
RC-1
MS-1
GL-3
GL-4
EXTERIOR BRICK:
TEXTURED WALL PANEL
CEMENT PLASTER:
CP-1
BR-1
WP-1
BUTT-JOINT CURTAINWALL GLAZING:
DARK-FRAMED STOREFRONT:
WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT:
GL-3
GL-1
GL-2
GLASS GUARDRAIL:
EXPOSED WOOD:
STEEL CANOPY:
ST-1
GL-4
WD-1
ROOF CANOPY:
ROOF MECHANICAL SCREEN:
RC-1
MS-1
*FINAL TEXTURE 
NOT YET SELECTED
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:09:32 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A3.0
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
1ST AVENUE - SOUTH ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
RAILROAD - EAST ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"
3
MID-BLOCK - NORTH ELEVATION
1/8" = 1'-0"
4
S. B STREET - WEST ELEVATION
MATERIAL PALETTE

--- page 536 ---
FLOOR 1
0"
A
FLOOR 3
28' - 0"
FLOOR 2
15' - 0"
FLOOR 4
41' - 0"
B
C
D
E
ROOF
54' - 0"
2
A4.0
__________
35' - 0"
9' - 6"
45° BULK MASS BOUNDARY
1
2
4
FLOOR 1
0"
1
FLOOR 3
28' - 0"
FLOOR 2
15' - 0"
FLOOR 4
41' - 0"
2
3
4
5
6
ROOF
54' - 0"
35' - 0"
45° BULK MASS BOUNDARY
1
2
2
3
4
5
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/9/2021 4:09:34 PM
1/8" = 1'-0"
A4.0
BUILDING SECTIONS
2202017.00
Checker
Author
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
1/8" = 1'-0"
1
NORTH-SOUTH SECTION
1/8" = 1'-0"
2
EAST-WEST SECTION
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/09/2021
KEYNOTES
#
KEYNOTE DESCRIPTION
1
METAL LOVERED MECHANICAL SCREEN
2
METAL ROOF CANOPY
3
STEEL SHADE CANOPY
4
GLASS RAILING AT BALCONY
5
REMAINING WALL AT ALLEY

--- page 537 ---
HARDSCAPE SLOPE
SOFTSCAPE SPOT ELEVATION
HARDSCAPE SPOT ELEVATION
SOFTSCAPE SLOPE
1.0%
1.0%
FS 100.00
FG 100.00
EX BUILDING
EX BUILDING
1ST AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
1ST AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
SD
R5.00
R5.00
R5.00
R5.00
R12.00
R12.00
92.37
31.11
12.12
BUS STOP
68.14
45.95
9.47
16.00
12.00
22.00
18.00
R5.00
R5.00
14.00
20.00
(NOTE 4)
10.00
20.00
24.00
8.00
8.00
10.00
(NOTE 5)
1.5%
1.5%
0.5%
0.46%
1.8%
0.33%
1.0%
1.5%
1.1%
TC 100.61
FL 100.11
(FS 100.14)
FS 100.29
(TC 99.90)
(FL 99.42)
TC 100.18
(FL 99.85)
FS 100.56
FS 100.58
TC 100.48
FL 100.15
TC 100.57
FL 100.07
TC 100.22
FL 100.22
TC 100.80
FL 100.30
TC 100.01
FL 100.01
FS 100.49
FS 100.58
FS 100.41
FS 100.30
FS 100.36
TC 100.36
FL 99.86
TC 100.24
FL 99.65
TC 99.19
FL 98.69
TC 99.36
FL 98.86
TC 98.97
FL 98.64
TC 98.74
FL 98.41
(TC 98.39)
(FL 97.97)
1.5%
FS 99.48
FS 99.55
FS 99.67
(FS 99.72)
0.4%
0.4%
FS 99.60
FS 99.59
FS 99.28
(FS 98.47)
1.5%
1.5%
1.5%
FS 100.88
(FS 99.61)
FS 98.98
FS 99.32
FS 99.39
FS 99.27
FS 99.20
FS 98.44
TC 98.80
FL 98.47
2.0%
3.5%
FS 99.10
1.5%
1.5%
FS 99.16
FS 99.26
FS 99.10
FS 99.32
FS 99.39
FS 99.44
FS 99.51
1.1%
(P) BACK OF CURB
(P) FACE OF CURB
(P) TRUNCATED DOMES
(P) DRIVEWAY
(P) ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
(P) PROPERTY LINE
(P) LANDSCAPE
(P) TREATMENT AREA
(P) TREE
(P) CURB RAMP
(P) PAVEMENT MARKING
(P) PERMEABLE PAVEMENT
SD
(P) HYDRODYNAMIC SEPARATOR
(P) STORM DRAIN PIPE
(P) FLOWLINE
TREATMENT AREA
(E) DRAINAGE INLET
(P) SD POC
SD
(P) SD MANHOLE
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/7/2021 1:12:18 PM
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
12/09/2021
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
PRE-APPLICATION
0
7.5'
15'
30
NORTH
NOTES
LEGEND
1.
PROPOSED GRADES AND UTILITIES SHOWN ARE CONCEPTUAL. FINAL GRADES TO BE DEVELOPED
DURING THE DESIGN PHASE.
2.
FUTURE GRADING WILL CONFORM TO EXISTING CONDITIONS AT THE PROJECT PERIMETER.
3.
ALL GRADING SHALL COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE PERMITS, LOCAL ORDINANCES AND
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
4.
DRIVEWAY EASEMENT ESTABLISHED IN DOCUMENT NO. 27972-D IN BOOK 786, PAGE 128 OF
OFFICIAL RECORDS.
5.
GAS PIPELINE EASEMENT ESTABLISHED IN DOCUMENT NO. 56325-H IN BOOK 1573, PAGE 365 OF
OFFICIAL RECORDS.
C2.00
CONCEPT GRADING
AND DRAINAGE
 
 
 
 1"=15'
 
TP
 
RA
 
21-034
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034_Timber_San_Mateo\03_Design\01_CAD\SheetSet\Pre-App\C2.00 CONCEPT GRADING AND DRAINAGE.dwg
,C2.00,Piper Crawford,12/9/2021 2:06:48 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
EXISTING CONDITIONS
SCALE: 1"=15'
PROPOSED GRADING
SCALE: 1"=15'

--- page 538 ---
E
E
E
G
G
G
(P) ELECTRIC TRENCH
(P) ELECTRIC POC
(P) GAS TRENCH
(P) GAS POC
(P) WATER PIPE
FW
FW
IRR
IRR
W
W
W
(P) FIRE WATER PIPE
(P) IRRIGATION WATER PIPE
(P) WATER POC
(P) FIRE WATER POC
(P) IRRIGATION WATER POC
(P) WATER VAULT
W
(P) BACKFLOW PREVENTER
EX BUILDING
EX BUILDING
1ST AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
SDMH
100.68 RIM
89.48 30" INV (NW)
89.77 30" INV (NE)
93.46 12" INV (SW)
SSMH
100.74 RIM
93.10 INV (NW)
93.04 INV (NE)
93.09 INV (SW)
SDCB
99.23 RIM
FILLED WITH
DEBRIS
SDCB
99.47 RIM
93.67 BOTTOM
95.27 12" INV (NE)
SDCB
98.21 RIM
93.56 12" INV (NW)
93.59 12" INV (SW)
W
W
W
W
W
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
T
T
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SDCB
98.19 RIM
94.59 12" INV (E)
SSMH (ABANDONED)
99.21 RIM
PIPES RUNNING NW/SE
ARE BLOCKED
SDMH
99.22 RIM
91.42 30" INV (NE)
91.30 30" INV (SE)
91.06 30" INV (SW)
94.22 12" INV (W)
SDMH
POSSIBLE MH LOCATION
PAVED OVER
SDMH
98.81 RIM
91.31 30" INV (NW)
91.35 30" INV (SE)
92.21 12" INV (SW)
SDCB
97.82 RIM
95.27 4" INV (SW)
SDMH
100.52 RIM
93.32 INV (NW)
94.12 INV (NE)
92.62 INV (SW)
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
W
WATER POC TO BE
COORDINATED WITH MEP
SS
SS
SS
SSCO
GAS POC
ELECTRIC POC
SS POC
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
FW
FW
FW
FW
FW
FW
FW
IRR
IRR
IRR
IRR
IRR
IRR
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/7/2021 1:12:18 PM
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
12/09/2021
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
PRE-APPLICATION
0
5'
10'
20'
NORTH
NOTES
1.
PROPOSED GRADES AND UTILITIES SHOWN ARE CONCEPTUAL. FINAL GRADES TO BE DEVELOPED DURING THE DESIGN
PHASE.
2.
FUTURE GRADING WILL CONFORM TO EXISTING CONDITIONS AT THE PROJECT PERIMETER.
3.
ALL GRADING SHALL COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE PERMITS, LOCAL ORDINANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
LEGEND
UTILITY KEYNOTES
C2.50
CONCEPT UTILITIES
 
 
 
 
 
----
 
----
 
21-034
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034_Timber_San_Mateo\03_Design\01_CAD\SheetSet\Pre-App\C2.50 CONCEPT UTILITIES.dwg
,C2.50,Piper Crawford,12/9/2021 2:07:12 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1

--- page 539 ---
LANDSCAPE
TREATMENT AREA
DRAINAGE AREA BOUNDARY
PROPERTY LINE
HARDSCAPE
ROOF
(P) PERMEABLE PAVEMENT
EX BUILDING
EX BUILDING
1ST AVENUE
SOUTH B STREET
SSMH
100.74 RIM
93.10 INV (NW)
93.04 INV (NE)
93.09 INV (SW)
W
W
W
W
W
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
T
T
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SSMH (ABANDONED)
99.21 RIM
PIPES RUNNING NW/SE
ARE BLOCKED
SDMH
100.52 RIM
93.32 INV (NW)
94.12 INV (NE)
92.62 INV (SW)
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
AREA 1
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 2
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 3
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 3
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 3
PLANTER BOX ON LEVEL 4
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
UD
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
12/7/2021 1:12:18 PM
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
12/09/2021
www.sherwoodengineers.com
2548 Mission Street
San Francisco, CA 94110
PRE-APPLICATION
0
5'
10'
20'
NORTH
1.
THIS PLAN REPRESENTS METHODS FOR FULFILLING THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SAN MATEO
WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PROGRAM.
2.
THE INTENT OF THE PROJECT IS TO TREAT STORMWATER RUNOFF USING LID AND BMPS.
STORMWATER COMPLIANCE STRATEGY SHOWN IS CONCEPTUAL. AS THE PROJECT DESIGN IS
FURTHER REFINED, THESE BMPS WILL BE REVISED ACCORDINGLY.
NOTES
LEGEND
C6.00
CONCEPT
STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT PLAN
 
 
 
1"=10'
 
TP
 
RA
 
21-034
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P:\2021\21-034_Timber_San_Mateo\03_Design\01_CAD\SheetSet\Pre-App\C3.00 CONCEPT STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.dwg
,C6.00,Piper Crawford,12/9/2021 2:07:37 PM
,ARCH full bleed E1 (30.00 x 42.00 Inches)
,1:1
31-57 SOUTH B STREET
AREA
ROOF
HARDSCAPE
LANDSCAPE
PERMEABLE
PAVEMENT
DRAINAGE TO
SELF TREATED
AREA
BIORETENTION
AREA
TOTAL
AREA
TREATEMENT AREA REQUIRED
WITH 12" PONDING DEPTH
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
SF
1
12261
2068
608
994
1988
478
16409
321
EXISTING CONDITIONS
PERMEABLE
AREA
IMPERMEABLE
AREA
TOTAL AREA
SF
SF
SF
0
16409
16409

--- page 540 ---
FIRST AVE
B STREET
FIRST AVE
B STREET
G1
G2
P3
G1
P2
C1
C1
G1
Q1
P2
C2
G3
K3
P2
C2
G2
C1
G2
P1
K4
G3
Q2
C2
A1
G1
G3
P1
G3
P2
G2
P3
B1
K2
H1
R1
R1
R1
G2
K5
P4
R2
R2
NO PARKING
NO PARKING
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER, CITY STANDARD
VEHICULAR CONCRETE
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 1
PRECAST CONCRETE UNIT PAVER 2
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
B1
C1
C2
H1
K2
K3
PLANTER, CURBS
AT GRADE PLANTING AREA
RAISED PLANTING AREA
AT GRADE STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
RAISED STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
PERMEABLE PAVING
CURB CUT
CURB EXTENSION
BULB-OUT
PLANTING AREA FOR VINES
BUILT-IN BENCH
MOVEABLE FURNITURE
(TBD BY TENANT)
BIKE RACK(8 SPACES)
FENCE ENCLOSURE (36" HT)
PARKING (5 SPACES)
BUS LOADING ZONE
EXISTING CURBLINE
PROPERTY LINE
SITE FURNISHINGS, PARKING
G1
G2
G3
G4
K4
P1
P2
P3
Q1
Q2
R1
K5
R2
P4
0
16
SCALE:  1/8" = 1' - 0"
8
4
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
LANDSCAPE PLAN -
GROUND FLOOR
L1.00
N
12/09/2021

--- page 541 ---
FIRST AVE
B STREET
G1
G2
B1
A1
P1
P2
P3
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER ON PEDESTAL,TYP
WOOD DECKING ON PEDESTAL,TYP
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
B1
PLANTER
RAISED PLANTING AREA, 36"
RAISED TREE PLANTING AREA, 48"
OUTDOOR WORK STATION
BAR WORK STATION
FAMILY STYLE DINNER
FIRESIDE CHAT AREA
LIBRARY WORKBENCHES
FLEXIBLE CONFERENCE TABLE
LOUNGE CHAIRS
POOL TABLE
LOUNGE WITH FIRETABLE
WORKBENCH
WORKTABLE
BANQUETTE BENCH WITH FLEXIBLE SEATING
BUILDING IN SEAT
PING PONG TABLE
BBQ
SURROUND BENCH BY THE TREE
SITE FURNISHINGS (TBD BY FUTURE TENANT)
G1
G2
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P10
P11
P12
P13
P14
P15
P16
LANDSCAPE PLAN -
LEVEL 2 TERRACE
0
16
SCALE:  1/8" = 1' - 0"
8
4
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
L1.01
N
NOTE: TERRACE TO BE FURNISHED BY OWNER
12/09/2021

--- page 542 ---
FIRST AVE
B STREET
FEC
FEC
FEC
P4
B2
G1
P5
A1
P6
G2
P7
P8
P2
P9
G2
B1
A1
G1
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER ON PEDESTAL,TYP
WOOD DECKING ON PEDESTAL,TYP
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
B1
PLANTER
RAISED PLANTING AREA, 36"
RAISED TREE PLANTING AREA, 48"
OUTDOOR WORK STATION
BAR WORK STATION
FAMILY STYLE DINNER
FIRESIDE CHAT AREA
LIBRARY WORKBENCHES
FLEXIBLE CONFERENCE TABLE
LOUNGE CHAIRS
POOL TABLE
LOUNGE WITH FIRETABLE
WORKBENCH
WORKTABLE
BANQUETTE BENCH WITH FLEXIBLE SEATING
BUILDING IN SEAT
PING PONG TABLE
BBQ
SURROUND BENCH BY THE TREE
SITE FURNISHINGS
G1
G2
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P10
P11
P12
P13
P14
P15
P16
LANDSCAPE PLAN -
LEVEL 3 TERRACE
0
16
SCALE:  1/8" = 1' - 0"
8
4
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
L1.02
N
NOTE: TERRACE TO BE FURNISHED BY OWNER
12/09/2021

--- page 543 ---
FIRST AVE
B STREET
FEC
FEC
FEC
G1
P10
A1
P11
P12
G2
P6
A2
A1
P13
P14
P15
P12
P12
B1
G2
P16
P13
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVER ON PEDESTAL,TYP
WOOD DECKING ON PEDESTAL,TYP
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
B1
PLANTER
RAISED PLANTING AREA, 36"
RAISED TREE PLANTING AREA, 48"
OUTDOOR WORK STATION
BAR WORK STATION
FAMILY STYLE DINNER
FIRESIDE CHAT AREA
LIBRARY WORKBENCHES
FLEXIBLE CONFERENCE TABLE
LOUNGE CHAIRS
POOL TABLE
LOUNGE WITH FIRETABLE
WORKBENCH
WORKTABLE
BANQUETTE BENCH WITH FLEXIBLE SEATING
BUILDING IN SEAT
PING PONG TABLE
BBQ
SURROUND BENCH BY THE TREE
SITE FURNISHINGS
G1
G2
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P10
P11
P12
P13
P14
P15
P16
LANDSCAPE PLAN -
LEVEL 4 TERRACE
0
16
SCALE:  1/8" = 1' - 0"
8
4
2
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
L1.03
N
NOTE: TERRACE TO BE FURNISHED BY OWNER
12/09/2021

--- page 544 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
LANDSCAPE
RENDERINGS
(GROUND LEVEL)
L1.04
1
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF S B STREET AND 1ST AVE
2
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF S B STREET AND 1ST AVE
3
B STREET LOOKING SOUTH
4
B STREET AT CURB EXTENSION AND PARKLET
12/09/2021

--- page 545 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
LANDSCAPE
RENDERINGS
(GROUND LEVEL)
L1.05
1
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF S B STREET AND 1ST AVE
2
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF S B STREET AND 1ST AVE
3
1ST AVE LOOKING EAST
4
SECONDARY ENTRANCE AT 1ST AVE & ALLEY
5
1ST AVE LOOKING WEST
12/09/2021

--- page 546 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
LANDSCAPE
RENDERINGS
(L2&3)
L1.06
1
2ND FLOOR TERRACE AERIAL
2
2ND FLOOR TERRACE LOOKING NORTH
3
3RD FLOOR TERRACE AERIAL
4
3RD FLOOR TERRACE LOOKING SOUTH
FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY
12/09/2021

--- page 547 ---
RMW
Architecture
Interiors
160  Pine  Street
4th  Floor
San  Francisco
California  94111
Office
415  781-9800
Fax
415 788-5216
rmw.com
SHEET NUMBER:
STAMP:
plot date :
REVISIONS :
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE:
ISSUE DATE:
SCALE:
PROJECT NUMBER:
CHECKED BY:
DRAWN BY:
SHEET NAME:
CLIENT:
PROJECT NAME & ADDRESS:
9.7.2021
57 S. B STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
57 S. B STREET
#
DESCRIPTION
DATE
PRE-APPLICATION
12/08/2021
2202017.00
CB
TH
LANDSCAPE
RENDERINGS
(Level 4)
L1.07
1
4TH FLOOR TERRACE AERIAL
2
4TH FLOOR TERRACE LOOKING WEST
3
4th FLOOR TERRACE
FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY
12/09/2021

--- page 548 ---
Project: PA-2021-082, 31 – 57 S B St Pre-App  
Attachment 3 - Applicable Policies 
 
GENERAL PLAN – LAND USE ELEMENT  
GOAL 1d: Concentrate major high-intensity commercial office and retail development in specific focal areas, as 
delineated on the City Image Plan, Figure UD-1. 
GOAL 1f: Provide a wide range of land uses, including retail, commercial services, office, industrial, parks, open space, 
and housing, to adequately meet the needs of the community. 
GOAL 1g: Attain development which occurs in an orderly fashion and which limits adverse environmental impacts to the 
community. 
LU 1.4: Development Intensity/Density. Adopt and maintain the development intensity/density limits as identified 
on the Land Use Map and Building Intensity Plan, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2. Development intensity/density 
shall recognize natural environmental constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake faults, debris flow areas, hazards, 
traffic and access, necessary services, and general community and neighborhood design. Maintain a density and 
building intensity range, with densities/intensities at the higher end of the range to be considered based on 
provision of public benefits such as affordable housing, increased open space, public plazas or recreational facilities, 
or off-site infrastructure improvements. 
LU 1.5: Building Height. Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix C, and as specified in Policy 
LU 6A.2, closely matched with the Land Use categories and Building Intensity standards. 
LU 1.8: Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing commercial mixed use 
development which includes multi-family dwellings in all non-residential land use categories except service 
commercial, manufacturing/ industrial and parks/open space. 
LU 1.10: Commercial Development. Encourage industrial, service, retail, and office development which is compatible 
with the desired character of the area and with adjacent residential areas in terms of intensity of use, height, bulk 
and design as delineated on the Land Use Plan, Building Height Plan and Building Intensity Plan. Commercial 
development adjacent to residential areas shall address concerns pertaining to traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling 
activities, noise, visual impacts, and public safety including hazardous material storage, fire safety, air pollutant 
emissions and odors. 
LU 1.11: Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at locations delineated on the 
Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the commercial nodes delineated on the Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.15: Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office uses with residential uses at 
locations and intensities/densities as delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan. 
GOAL 2a: Promote economic vitality which provides jobs for existing and future residents and maintains the City's ability 
to finance public improvements and human services. 
GOAL 2c: Promote an intensity of commercial activity that enhances the business climate in the City to increase the level 
of business types which will benefit existing commercial uses.  
LU 2.1: Economic Development. Attract new businesses and encourage the retention and expansion of existing 
businesses which enhance the City's economic base.  
LU 2.2: High City Revenue Generators. Retain existing businesses and attract new businesses which are high City 
revenue generators.  
LU 2.3: Local Employment. Encourage uses which provide opportunities for employment of all the City's residents, 
with emphasis placed on major employers that provide high value-added jobs 
LU 2.4: Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City with 
a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities while 
encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods.  
LU 2.10: Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the development potential of 
property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core and along South El Camino Real.

--- page 549 ---
LU 3.1: Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the downtown shall maintain a wide 
range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities. 
GOAL 4c: Health and Safety. Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by maintaining adequate fire and life 
safety protection, providing a safe environment with a minimum of crime, reducing unreasonable risk to life and 
property caused by flooding, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and managing the use, storage, transport and 
disposal of hazardous materials. 
LU 4.2: Developer's Contribution Policy. Require new development to pay on an equitable basis for new or expanded 
public improvements needed to support the new or changed land use or development. 
LU 4.3: Location of Critical Facilities. Encourage active, healthy lifestyles, by promoting pedestrian and bicycle 
connectivity between civic facilities. Avoid locating critical facilities, such as hospitals, schools, fire, police, 
emergency service facilities and utilities in areas subject to slope failure, flooding and other hazards as identified in 
the Safety Element, where feasible. 
LU 4.32: Recycling and Composting. Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State requirements. 
Require provisions for onsite recycling for all new development and expand composting of green waste and food 
scraps, as directed by the City’s Climate Action Plan which is an appendix of the General Plan. 
GOAL 8b: Recognize potential climate change consequences such as increased sea level rise, changing weather events, 
less snow melt in the Sierras - therefore less drinking water availability, hotter temperatures, changing air quality and 
more heat related health issues. 
Built Environment 
GOAL 8d: Increase new annual installations of solar or renewable energy systems consistent with the Climate Action 
Plan. 
LU 8.9: Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction 
activities by requiring the following measures:  
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be applied to all construction activities within San Mateo.  
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with applicable BAAQMD requirements 
involving lead paint and asbestos containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and 
asbestos. 
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by BAAQMD as appropriate for the 
specifics of the project (e.g., length of time of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may 
include the utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the length of time of use of 
certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction 
equipment (alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters). 
3. DOWNTOWN.  
The goals, policies, and objectives for downtown San Mateo are located in the Downtown Plan. A general discussion of 
the downtown also occurs in Section 3 of this Land Use Element.  
Provisions of the voter-approved Measure H and Measure P, which reduced building heights, floor area ratios and 
residential densities, were also incorporated, including the provisions following below (the Measure H and P provisions 
are in italics).  
a. A Specific Plan for the Downtown was adopted by the City Council in July 1985, and amended in 1993, consistent 
with the provisions of Measure H as adopted by the voters in November 1991. This Specific Plan also constituted an 
amendment to the previous General Plan.  
GENERAL PLAN – CIRCULATION ELEMENT 
GOAL 1: Design and regulate use of city streets according to their classification and intended function as shown in Figure 
C-1. 
C 1.3: Protect Local Streets. Minimize the impact of new development on local streets. When warranted, construct 
improvements on local streets consistent with the City’s Neighborhood Traffic Management Program.

--- page 550 ---
C 1.4: Neighborhood Traffic Management. Manage traffic and speeds on arterials, collector and local streets using 
techniques specified in the City’s Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP). 
C 2.4: Transportation Fee Ordinance. Require new developments to pay for on-site improvements to meet the needs 
of development and their proportionate share of the costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City 
of San Mateo. Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements equitably. The off-
site improvements will include intersection and street improvements to maintain intersection levels of service, 
traffic safety improvements and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle trips such as bicycle system 
enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction measures. 
C 2.9: Dedication of Needed Right-of-Way for Roadway Improvements. Require dedication of needed rights-of-way 
for roadway improvements shown in Appendix D, which are deficient in land area. Dedication shall be required 
where the development project contributes to the need for the roadway improvement and where the cost of 
dedication is not so disproportionate to the size of the project or traffic generated to make it unreasonable. 
C 2.10: Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Participate in the TDM Program as outlined by the San Mateo 
City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG). Encourage TDM measures as a condition of approval for 
development projects, which are anticipated to cause substantial traffic impacts. C/CAG requires the preparation of 
a TDM program for all new development that would add 100 peak hour trips or more to the regional road network. 
C 2.12: Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Downtown. Establish and implement a TDM program, a 
Transportation Management Association (TMA), and other measures to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit 
use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility for development within one-half mile of the Downtown transit 
center. 
GOAL 3: Support the provision of public transit services adequate to provide a viable alternative to automobile travel for 
all citizens and to provide a convenient means of transportation to the "transit dependent" population. 
C 3.1: Increase Bus Ridership. Strongly promote increased bus ridership and improved accessibility to bus transit by 
encouraging SamTrans to implement the following bus service improvements: 
a. Evaluate the need to provide service in areas exceeding a quarter mile from local routes and designated bus 
stops, as shown on Figure C-4.  
b. Evaluate the need for improved bus service in high concentration employment centers, including: 
Downtown, Mariner’s Island, Peninsula Office Park, Crossroads, and the Corridor Plan area among others as 
shown in the Land Use Element, Figure LU-2 (Employment Locations). Evaluate the need to improve bus 
service to the College of San Mateo, between schools and recreation facilities, and to special events. 
c. Promote increased usage of the Park-N-Ride lot at the US 101 and SR 92 Interchange.  
d. Promote increased bus ridership through an expanded Public Information Program such as at train stations, 
public institutions, and through TDM.  
e. Recognize the importance of complementary land uses, such as higher-density, compact development with 
pedestrian-friendly environments, to especially justify increasing levels of transit service. 
C 3.2: Caltrain. Continue the City's strong support of Caltrain as an essential element of the overall circulation 
system on the Peninsula and in the City. Support the following rail service improvements:  
a. Continue to work with the Joint Powers Board which locally manages and oversees improvement plans for 
Caltrain.  
b. Increased service during non-commute periods and increase system capacity.  
c. Development of a Downtown San Francisco terminal within the vicinity of the Transbay Terminal or Financial 
District to improve commute service and linkage to other regional transit systems.  
d. Expenditure of Measure A (1/2-cent sales tax) funds and other available funds for grade crossing 
improvements at existing at grade crossings and where existing grade separations have inadequate vertical 
clearance above the crossing street.  
e. Caltrain Public Shuttle Programs.  
f. Caltrain’s Project 2025 future vision includes three major phases of development: state of good repair, 
electrification enhancements and post-electrification enhancements. All three phases of the program will 
provide increased frequency of service to San Mateo and Peninsula residents and commuters

--- page 551 ---
GOAL 4: Maintain a comprehensive bicycle and pedestrian circulation network which provides safe recreation 
opportunities and an alternative to automobile travel.  
C 4.1: Bicycle Master Plan. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended programs and projects to create and 
maintain a fully-connected safe and logical bikeways system; support the City's Sustainable Transportation Actions; 
and coordinate with the countywide system.  
C 4.3: Dedication of Needed Right-of-Way for Bikeways. Require dedication of necessary rights-of-way for bike lanes 
and paths shown on Figure C-5, which are deficient in land area. Dedication shall be required where the 
development project contributes to the need for the bikeways improvement and where the cost of dedication is not 
so disproportionate to the size of the project to make it unreasonable.  
C 4.4: Pedestrian Master Plan. Implement the Pedestrian Master Plan’s recommended programs and projects to 
create and maintain a walkable environment in San Mateo and support the City’s Sustainable Transportation 
Actions.  
C 4.5: Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Continue to require as a condition of development project 
approval the provision of sidewalks and wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged 
sidewalks. Require that utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on sidewalks be placed and 
maintained to permit wheelchair access and pedestrian use. Increase awareness of existing trails and routes by 
promoting these amenities to residents.  
C 4.6: Wheelchair Access and Pedestrian Accessibility. Continue to assess and improve wheelchair access throughout 
the City. Install wheelchair ramps or take other corrective measures where most needed in accordance with the 
established Citywide Wheelchair Program.  
C 4.7: Pedestrian Safety. Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of intersection and other roadway 
improvements.  
C 4.8: Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Balance pedestrian mobility and bicycle accessibility and safety with 
vehicular congestion when considering intersection improvements to address level of service degradation. 
C 4.9: Pedestrian and Bicycle Connections. Implement an area-wide pedestrian and bicycle circulation plan which 
will result in convenient and direct connections throughout San Mateo. Implementing connections in the Rail 
Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) area and into adjacent neighborhoods and districts is a 
priority.  
C 4.10: Bikeway Systems. Review the City’s planned bikeways systems for adequacy, consistency and connectivity 
throughout the City to facilitate ease of use and safety for the users including adequate parking for bicycles. The City 
will seek to implement infrastructure improvements citywide that support bicycle activity.  
C 5.1: Parking Standards.  
a. Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking supply as a condition of development 
approval.  
b. Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking supply for change and/or expansion of 
land use resulting in increased parking demand. 
C 6.1: Modal Share. Increase mode share for pedestrian and bicycle travel, for trips of one mile or less, by regularly 
updating and implementing plans for sustainable transportation infrastructure including the Bicycle Master Plan and 
the Pedestrian Master Plan. Additional potential supportive actions to increase mode share are detailed in the 
Climate Action Plan. 
C 6.3: Travel to Schools. Reduce private automobile school trips by collaborating with private and public partners to 
increase the number of students walking or bicycling to school, expanding pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure for 
school routes, implementing “walking pools” to schools, increasing carpooling for students, and making flexible local 
transit available for student travel. 
C 6.4: Commuting. Reduce single occupant commuting 20% before 2020 by expanding the Transportation 
Management Association beyond Corridor Plan Area, establishing parking maximums, requiring trip reduction for all 
development and facilitating the provision of transit passes or other direct transit subsidies for residents and

--- page 552 ---
employees within San Mateo. Additional actions to reduce single occupant commuting is detailed in the Climate 
Action Plan, Appendix of the General Plan. 
GENERAL PLAN – HOUSING ELEMENT 
H 2.12: Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing commercial areas, or in locating 
adjacent or near transit nodes, where the residences can be buffered from noise and safety concerns and can 
provide adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or height bonuses for residential 
development in selected areas of the City. 
GENERAL PLAN – URBAN DESIGN ELEMENT 
GOAL 1: Establish a positive and distinctive City image by taking advantage of the natural setting and by developing and 
improving focal points, gateways, and major corridors. 
UD 1.1: Focal Points. Emphasize and improve established focal points identified as the Downtown, Hillsdale Station 
Area, including the Caltrain Station and the Hillsdale Shopping Center, Bridgepointe, Hayward Park Caltrain Station 
and adjacent office development areas, the intersections of US 101 and SR 92 and SR 92 and El Camino Real (SR 82), 
and the SR 92 corridor. Encourage focal points by emphasizing a particular use, or feature, or through entry or 
landscape treatments. Focal points should be discouraged at inappropriate locations 
UD 1.3: Gateways. Develop gateways by creating strong architectural or landscape features exhibiting the character 
of San Mateo at the following locations: entrances to the Downtown, the north and south ends of El Camino Real (SR 
82), US 101 and Third Avenue, US 101 and Hillsdale Boulevard, and Mariner's Island Boulevard and J. Hart Clinton 
Drive at the border of Foster City.  
By developing gateway features, the entries to the City will be identified. Gateways may be constructed in a variety 
of ways: a prominent landscape or architectural feature, a notable open area or possibly an arch to pass through. All 
gateways should have some common element or feature to give San Mateo a unique and consistent image. 
COMMERCIAL AREAS  
Commercial streets represent a large part of the image of San Mateo. Visual character and pedestrian activity are two 
general but very important qualities that contribute to the livability and vitality of a commercial street. The following are 
factors that contribute to these qualities. SITTING How the building, parking and pedestrian spaces are oriented on a site 
can have a strong effect on its appearance and use.  
 
A building that sits at or near the street property line provides visual interest for drivers and pedestrians and a sense of 
street enclosure. Parking should be located towards the rear of the parcel, helping to buffer the commercial areas from 
adjoining residential uses. Buildings that are located at the rear of the parcel typically feature a parking lot along the 
street. The parking lot is generally unattractive. It also eliminates any desire for on street parking, reducing any 
pedestrian activity on the sidewalk. The street also develops much more visual clutter due to varied building setbacks, 
more exposed building faces and the need for freestanding signage adjacent to the street.

--- page 553 ---
FORM  
The quality of a street is composed of an aggregation of all its pieces. Each building has the ability to contribute to the 
visual character or detract from it. A street with buildings of greatly varying heights and widths appears confusing. 
Larger buildings appear more important and smaller buildings appear out of place. Buildings that have generally the 
same proportions can have variation in size, style and design but will still be perceived as being organized as a whole. A 
larger building may visually fit with smaller buildings if it adopts the form or spacing of the facade width and height set 
up by neighboring buildings. This can be done by providing breaks in the street facade or building form, or by adopting a 
window or detailing pattern common to the area.  
San Mateo's commercial areas are generally not dominated by a particular style but have a variety of designs that can 
work together. When a style is introduced that has a very strong individual character, such as a trademark roof design or 
large symbolic arches, it detracts from the surrounding structures and stands out. As more of these types of structures 
are added, more visual clutter is created as each competes for attention. Buildings with a particular corporate image are 
also less adaptable to change over time, as their style often dictates a particular use or service.  
ACTIVITY  
People are obviously a necessary part of any successful commercial area. The presence of people attracts others and 
adds to the excitement of the area. The design of commercial areas should include provisions to make people want to be 
there and be seen. 
People are attracted by comfortable spaces and interesting things to look at and do. As stated above, placing the 
building toward the front property line near on-street parking helps create activity on the sidewalk. The sidewalk, 
however, must be wide enough to comfortably accommodate pedestrians. Many sidewalks are too narrow for 
commercial areas, particularly when they are shared by utility poles, fire hydrants and news boxes. Pedestrians also 
need places to sit, protection from the sun by trees or awnings and interesting things to look at. Building materials that 
provide interest at close range should be used where people walk next to buildings. Buildings with glass on the first floor 
display retail goods or show how the ground floor is used. Blank walls should be avoided at street level. The design of 
the ground level should always consider the needs of pedestrians.

--- page 554 ---
GOAL 4: Improve the visual character, livability and vitality of commercial areas. 
UD 2.6: Orient Buildings Toward the Street. Encourage commercial development to be located at the street in retail 
areas to encourage pedestrian activity and the use of on-street parking. Locate required parking towards the side 
and rear of parcels. 
UD 2.7: Respect Existing Scale. Encourage new commercial development to respect the scale of surrounding 
buildings by providing breaks in the building face at spacings common to buildings in the area and by stepping back 
upper floors. 
UD 2.8: Trademark Building Forms. Discourage 'signature' or trademark building forms or colors where they would 
contribute to the visual clutter of the area. 
UD 2.9: Pedestrian Oriented Design. On retail commercial projects, designate pedestrian activity as a priority 
through the design and provision of adequate sidewalk widths, locating windows along ground floor street facades, 
trees and awnings, and human scale construction materials and features.  
UD 2.10: Outdoor Display and Eating. To add visual interest and activity to commercial areas, encourage the outdoor 
display of plants, books and food, and restaurant seating areas. 
UD 2.14: Sustainable Design and Building Construction. Require new development and building alterations to 
conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and 
standards pertaining to sustainable building construction. 
GENERAL PLAN – CONSERVATION 
GOAL 4: Expand the aesthetic and functional contributions made to the urban environment by public open spaces, trail 
systems, scenic roadways, and street trees and plantings. 
C/OS 6.6: New Development Street Trees. Require street tree planting as a condition of all new developments in 
accordance with the adopted Street Tree Master Plan, El Camino Real Master Plan, or Hillsdale Station Area Plan, as 
applicable. 
C/OS 6.7: Street Tree Planting. Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the City and especially in 
gateway areas such as Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue, El Camino Real (SR 82), Hillsdale Boulevard, and 42nd Avenue; 
encourage neighborhood participatio 
C/OS 7.1: Resource Protection. Preserve, to the maximum extent feasible, archaeological sites with significant 
cultural, historical, or sociological merit. 
C/OS 8.2: Historic Districts. Consider the protection of concentrations of buildings which convey the flavor of local 
historical periods or provide an atmosphere of exceptional architectural interest or integrity, after additional study.

--- page 555 ---
C/OS 10.1: Public Open Space Design. Review planning applications for opportunities to promote exceptional design 
and use of public open spaces in new developments and new public buildings. (Note: Related Urban Design policies 
UD-2.9, 2.10.)  
C/OS 14.7: Area Studies and Specific Plans. Include direction in Area Studies and Specific Plans, prepared for new 
development or redevelopment of portions of the City, that adverse impacts on existing park sites and recreation 
services will be avoided or mitigated.  
Policy 14.7 intends that in-progress and future planning efforts for specific portions of the City take a comprehensive 
view of impacts on recreation facilities and services resulting from increased worker or resident population pursuant 
to the plans and that the plans provide for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts. 
C/OS 16.5: Development Fees. Assess appropriate fees and taxes to ensure that new development contributes 
adequate funding to compensate for its impacts on recreation facilities and services.  
GOAL 4: Minimize potential damage to life, environment and property through timely, well-prepared and well-
coordinated emergency preparedness, response plans and programs. 
GENERAL PLAN - NOISE ELEMENT 
N 2.1: Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City's existing noise control ordinance: a) 
which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a public 
nuisance, and b) restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
N 2.3: Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as “noise sensitive” in Table N-1 from 
adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise generated by new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation 
measures into development design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dB 
(Ldn) or above at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
Commercial and industrial areas typically tolerate higher noise levels than residential neighborhoods. However, some 
control is necessary for new development within non-residential areas so that exceptionally noisy uses are restricted.

--- page 556 ---
DOWNTOWN PLAN 
GOALS 
ONE Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place Downtown San Mateo 
possesses a traditional downtown image, including an informal, cozy atmosphere. Key landmarks and landscaping in the 
form of street trees, San Mateo Creek and Central Park contribute to downtown’s unique character. New development 
should complement this character, while at the same time bringing contemporary elements that revitalize and energize 
the downtown.  
TWO Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses 
Maintain and improve on the wide range of uses available downtown including retail and service establishments, 
entertainment uses, such as the Downtown Century Theater, residential uses and unique facilities, such as Central Park. 
Facilitate a wide mix of retail stores, service uses such as restaurants, and housing uses. 
THREE Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown. 
Allow for outdoor uses, such as cafes and sitting areas, to promote the pedestrian activity and multiple destination trips 
to the downtown. Strengthen the links between Central Park and downtown, and between the downtown and 
surrounding residential areas. 
FOUR Protect Key Landmarks and the Historic Character that Exists In Parts of Downtown The downtown is of particular 
importance with respect to historic resources. The areas along Third Avenue and B Street contain the largest 
concentration of historical structures within the downtown. This sense of history within the downtown adds to its 
unique sense of place. However, there is a need to balance historic preservation with the need for new development. 
Encourage development which creates a diverse urban form but, at the same time, ensures that new buildings are in 
scale and compatible with the existing downtown buildings.  
FIVE Ensure Adequate Parking to Meet Expected Needs, Enhance the Quality of the Parking Environment, and Improve 
Public Perceptions About Parking Availability Downtown parking should be efficiently arranged so as to minimize the 
space devoted to parking but also meet demand. Customers need to be aware of the location and availability of parking 
facilities. Pricing strategies, time limits, access, and safety improvements will increase use in some underutilized areas.

--- page 557 ---
IMPLEMENT A NEW FINANCING MECHANISM FOR SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION
DOWNTOWN PARKING. INITIATIVES. In order to improve pedestrian, bicycle,
The Central Parking and Improvement District (CPID) was | shuttle, and transit access implement Downtown Area
created by the City in 1954 as a means of financing land Plan policies to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit
acquisition and construction of downtown public parking use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility.
facilities. The CPID includes on-street parking, surface

lots and five (5) parking structures. The bonds issued to Additionally, the Downtown Area Plan includes vehicle trip
fund these downtown parking facilities have been retired, reduction, bicycle and pedestrian accessibility policies.

and the City is presently examining methods to fund These policies will be employed on a case by case basis
additional downtown parking. as development is reviewed, with the goal of reducing
vehicle trips and promoting alternative means of mobility.

Funding of additional public parking in downtown should \ ee a
consider the following principles: bc | ol | “=

a. Property owners should participate in the funding of
future parking expansion through assessments or
other appropriate methods.

b. Parking in-lieu fees when combined with
assessments and other parking revenues should
be maintained at a level to provide the full cost of
constructing a new parking space.

F Outdoor Seating,

Mountain View

SUPPORT THE DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO

ASSOCIATION IN CREATION OF A PROPERTY

BASED IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FOR DOWNTOWN

IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.

As a way to provide funding for additional parking

facilities, the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)

is currently exploring the formation of a Property Based

Improvement District (PBID) as well as other funding

options, including options with contributions by property

owners and/or tenants. The City should continue to
support these efforts in an attempt to address funding
issues related to the provision of additional downtown

parking facilities. at on
Outdoor
Outdoor Seating
Seating Hayward
Hayward

20 CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN


--- page 558 ---
Downtown Retail Core

Background

The Downtown Retail Core extends from Sth Avenue to
2nd Avenue between El Camino Real and the Railroad.
3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue and B Street are the primary retail
streets (see map at end of this chapter). The two vacant
former gas station sites at 3rd Avenue/E! Camino Real
present opportunities and challenges at this gateway to
the downtown. Mills Health Center, the Downtown Century
Cinema, and the Downtown Transit Center (see next sub-
area discussion) are also included in this sub-area.

Future Conditions

Downtown Plan policies continue to support the retail
core shopping area by requiring retail uses along 2nd, 3rd
and 4th Avenues, San Mateo Drive, Ellsworth Avenue,
and B Street. This will require a good mix of ground

floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality
and downtown's pedestrian oriented environment. New
priorities for the retail core include:

a. Provide housing for new households that will utilize
downtown businesses and is within proximity to the
transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle
ownership. In order to implement this policy, the City
should allow flexibility in architectural style to facilitate
use of nontraditional housing designs, such as loft
spaces, and allow flexibility in design where more
modem forms relate to existing buildings within an
historic environment.

b. Examine the feasibility of reducing lanes on 4th
Avenue down to 3 lanes to provide pedestrian
enhancements.

c. Examine the potential for providing a public plaza in
the retail core. The City has commissioned ERA to
examine a public plaza at the northwest comer of
3rd Avenue and San Mateo Drive in conjunction with
a mixed use development at 2nd Avenue and San
Mateo Drive.

Continue to seek additional sites for parking and
actively explore alternative methods to manage
existing parking inventory. Parking inventory
management may include experimenting with lang
term/overnight reserved parking for premium fees,
use of technological advancements, encouraging
short tarm parking turn over, and other methods as
they become available.

Provide an entry feature at the entryways to
downtown in the vicinity of the 3rd Avenue/El Camino
Real intersection, 4th Avenue/El Camino Real
intersection, B Street/Sth Avenue intersection, and B
Street/1st Avenue intersection.

Improve pedestrian linkages to Central Park and
other plazas, and provide additional widened
sidewalks where adequate parking and circulation
can be maintained.

Focus on 5th Avenue/San Mateo Drive and
opportunities to directly tie Downtown to Central
Park, including physically and visually open up to
intersection at Sth/San Mateo Drive.

Look at development opportunities on 5th Avenue
and where public benefits may be used to help fund
linkages to and/or improvements in Central Park.


--- page 559 ---
North B Street/Tilton Avenue

Background

Uses north of Baldwin and west of Ellsworth include small
scale medical offices along San Mateo Drive, the Peninsula
Regent (200+ unit senior citizen project), the Mills Square
mixed-use high rise office/residential project and single
family homes are located on Tilton Terrace.

Along B Street there is a mix of uses including those
continued from the retail core as well as neighborhood
commercial uses that serve nearby residential areas.
Recent renovation and establishment of new uses, such as
Cappelini's restaurant, has been increasing in this area.

Future Conditions

Land use designations in the area will support existing
uses, including the neighborhood commercial uses along B
Street. The emphasis for the North B Street/Tilton Avenue
policies include:

a. Enhance North B Street area and designate it as
a unique district serving the nearby neighborhood
population. Encourage retail/restaurant uses to locate
on ground floors and office/service uses to locate in
upper level spaces, while maintaining the existing
character of this district. To further develop this unique
district, establish relationships with existing bilingual
services in the community and merchants.

b. Encourage and facilitate development of large, vacant,
underutilized parcels such as the former Blue and
White Laundry site on North B Street. Development
of underutilized parcels with significant development
which attempts to maximize use of the sites will nat
only have direct economic impacts generated by the
projects themselves, but also contribute to the overall
downtown shopping environment.

CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREAPLAN 23


--- page 560 ---
I.1 Downtown Core High Density/Intensity Development. Encourage the development of mixed-use high density residential projects 
and high intensity commercial projects within the Downtown Retail Core. 
II.1 Downtown Core Shopping Area. Preserve the downtown’s core shopping area between 1st and 5th Avenues from El Camino Real 
to the railroad.  
II.2 Required Retail Frontage. Require the provision of ground floor retail uses with windows on properties located on the primary 
shopping streets as identified in the Required Retail Frontage Zone Map (see map at the end of this chapter). In addition to 
traditional retailing activities, permit entertainment and cultural uses, and allow fast food establishments in limited instances.13 
II.8 Office Development. Encourage the establishment of offices within the Downtown Retail Core and surrounding commercially 
designated areas.13 
II.9 Housing in the Retail Core. Provide housing for new households that will utilize downtown businesses and is within proximity to 
the transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle ownership. 
II.10 Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing multi-family dwellings as part of mixed use 
developments in all downtown commercial and office land use categories, except areas designated service commercial and 
parks/open space in the General Plan.13 
III.1 Sidewalk Widening. Consider widening sidewalks to encourage outdoor restaurant seating and improve pedestrian amenities 
where adequate parking and circulation can be maintained. 
III.2 Pedestrian Amenities. Enhance the sidewalk environment of primary pedestrian streets as indicated on the Pedestrian, Park and 
Open Space Policies map, by providing improvements to the appearance, comfort, convenience and safety of pedestrian areas. 
Develop a Coordinated Streetscape Plan for future sidewalk amenities and physical improvements. 
III.3 Building Bulk. Control the bulk of tall buildings to provide maximum sunlight exposure to sidewalks, streets and open space; and 
to allow views through and out of the Downtown in a manner consistent with the City’s Building Height and Bulk Plan.13 
III.4 Outdoor Display and Eating, Food and Plant Vendors. To add visual interest and activity to sidewalk areas, allow outdoor display 
of plants, books and food, restaurant seating areas, and outdoor food and plant vendors. 
III.7 Pedestrian Access – Pedestrian Safety is a Priority in the Pedestrian improvements should incorporate the following concepts to 
develop a consistent pedestrian-friendly environment:  
a. Pedestrian access to peripheral garages should provide a safe and attractive walking environment.  
b. Sidewalks should be well maintained and be widened as opportunity becomes available to provide a pedestrian boulevard 
experience that might include elements such as outdoor dining.  
c. Vertical street elements should be minimized to improve pedestrian access.  
d. Continue practice of using pedestrian scale lights in the Downtown.  
e. Monitor the placement of utilities and other similar items to ensure that they do not adversely affect pedestrian movement 
and safety. 
IV.1 Building Heights. Relate the height of new buildings to the pattern of downtown and to the character of existing and proposed 
development. 
IV.2 Store Fronts in the Retail Core. Maintain the traditional store front environment of the Downtown Retail Core area by requiring 
new buildings to be constructed to the street property line. In the retail core area, require ground floor building walls to be 
dominated by windows and pedestrian entrances13 
IV.3 Design Guidelines. Evaluate the Downtown Design Guidelines to ensure that it:  
(1) Emphasizes the public realm - streets and sidewalks and public spaces in building design, scale, detail, and pattern of new 
developments;  
(2) Encourages building design to be compatible with the historic and architectural features common to many buildings in the 
Downtown;  
(3) Encourages a compatibility of diverse building styles; and  
(4) Encourages building details, surfaces, textures and materials that are interesting for the pedestrian.13 
IV.6 Downtown Design Guidelines/Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines. Revise the Downtown and Historic District Design 
Guidelines to give consideration to new development within a historic preservation context, thereby providing a balance between 
preserving a unique community asset (in the form of a historic district with intact distinct historic and contributor structures) and 
providing for new development and improvements within the downtown area. 
V.1 Downtown Parking. Enhance Downtown Parking Supply. The following should be examined for feasibility:

--- page 561 ---
a. Public parking at 5th and Railroad Avenues in combination with redevelopment of the site at 4th, 5th and Railroad (former 
Kinko’s site).  
b. Additional parking in the vicinity of 5th Avenue and San Mateo Drive in the event that the existing Central Park Tennis Court 
Garage is demolished. This additional parking should, at a minimum, be sufficient to replace the eliminated spaces.  
c. Public parking at the City-owned site bounded by 5th Avenue, the railroad, and South Claremont.14 
V.2 Downtown Parking Funding Strategies. Funding of additional public parking in Downtown should consider the following 
principles:  
a. Property owners should participate in the funding of future parking expansion through assessments or other appropriate 
methods.  
b. Parking in-lieu fees when combined with assessments and other parking revenues should be maintained at a level to provide 
the full cost of constructing a new parking space. 
V.5 Limited Parking Zone. Restrict parking on primary pedestrian retail streets to reduce traffic congestion, ensure retail continuity 
and maintain the pedestrian environment. The Limited Parking Zone, as shown on the CPID map, restricts parking on primary 
pedestrian streets to ensure that they are not interrupted by surface parking lots, curb cuts and other vehicular traffic oriented 
improvements. This is accomplished by:  
(1) Restricting curb cuts;  
(2) Limiting off-street above grade parking;  
(3) Limiting commercial parking provided onsite to the visitor component only; and  
(4) Retaining angled, on-street parking. 
V.7 Downtown Plan Parking Standards. Maintain reduced parking requirements within the Downtown Plan area for non-residential 
uses. Explore new technologies to increase parking availability and/or efficiency. 
V.8 Parking for Projects Within One-Half Mile of the Downtown Transit Center. On a case-by-case basis, consider parking reductions 
for projects within 0.5 mile of the Downtown Transit Center. 
VIII.2 Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Required participation in TDM measures, such as car/van pooling, car sharing, 
staggered work hours and transit use, as a condition of approval for projects anticipated to generate significant parking and traffic 
impacts. 
VIII.3 Downtown Transportation Management Agency (TMA). Develop a Downtown TMA to provide support and oversight of the 
Downtown residential and commercial transportation opportunities and enhance the use of public transit and/or bicycles while 
reducing the use of single occupant vehicles.  
VIII. 4 Support Sustainable Transportation Initiatives. Implement Downtown Area Plan policies calling for use of Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) measures, establishment of a Transportation Management Association (TMA), and other measures to 
reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility.  
VIII.5 City-Wide Sustainable Initiatives Plan. As the recommendations of the Sustainable Initiatives Plan and Climate Action Plan for 
Operations and Facilities are implemented by the General Plan or by separate ordinance, resolution or procedures, incorporate 
them by reference into the Downtown Plan.

--- page 562 ---
Hl

“~/ VES Gy “| DOWNTOWN
\ —_—
* eee : SUB-AREAS
- ¢ Lg. —
AB Py x8! = 4 poms
f wd DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
£ ‘ | F et
/ ‘4 - = | CITYOFSAN MATEO
es. 2,4 5 February 2009
11 ras A fy 400_600_800
Ley nee | Feet
= oy
— st c= | Ire“
y 4 Red
\ my ann aa — = Jt EL
+o =F ! Ro
e | BH a ‘Giza,
+ | | CUES = | TTT Tr
\ WE | l SSH ABS r = | ; aE . aN Ly,
| | aT] . Se ia
I l I COT i" — i
1 LEGEND
pa Hot RAILROAD DOWNTOWN SUB-AREAS:
USPS POST OFFICE [=] CENTRAL CLAREMONT
f@ = TRAINSTATION [==]: DOWNTOWN RETAIL
@ —susraries CORE
ae MUA CHRER [S99] GaTeway
GUS ENE) NORTH B
—— SAN MATEO CREEK TILTON AVENUE
(SURFACE)
ro amp ae HG] SOUTH CLAREMONT

PROPERTY BOUNDARY GGG WesT EL CAMINO
Mmm DOWNTOWN PLAN (22 7] CENTRAL PARK

STUDY AREA


--- page 563 ---
*

5
Seneeueeneneseaeeee®

elbkee.

Downtown Cinema

Railroad =f) Train Station
Downtown Plan Study Area

@@@ iic-Block Pedestrian Connections

CPID Parking Facility

Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area
Required Retail Frontage
Uniform Building Line

| a Historic District / Design Guidlelines

DOWNTOWN
RETAIL CORE

SOQesss

SSNs
SLES
SS

my

el

a
s]

ma

Parks/Downtown Plaza.
Downtown Retail Core
Downtown Retail Core Support
Executive Office

Executive Office’
High Density Multi-Family

High Density Multi-Family
Low Density Multi-Family

.

x
\

a
S

SSN
8

YW
| SLD

VAAN GOA

FIGURE 3

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009
150 300 450

eA {
eG |

SS

ZA
5

Medium Density Multi-Family

Neighborhood Commercial!
Medium-High Density Multi-Family
Public Facility- Library

Service Commercial
Single Family

Transportation Gorridar



--- page 564 ---
a

onrnisaeve gy |-
rite

ecese
i

1S INV N

DOWNTOWN
LAND USE PLAN
FIGURE 10

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

February 2009

0 200 400 600 800
Feet

_ Legend
THF haitroad @8 Train station
me Required Retail Frontage
=me@e 1/4 -1/2 MILE Radius from Station
@ @w@ Downtown Plan Study Area
(Property Boundary

LAND USE
Downtown Retail Core
Downtown Retail Core Support
Executive Office
Executive Office/ High Density
Multi-Family
High Density Multi-Family
Low Density Multi-Family
Manufacturing
Medium Density Multi-Family

Neighborhood Commercial

Neigh. Comm/ Medium-High Density
Multi-Family

Parks/ Open Space

Public Facility

Regional/Community Commercial
Regional/Community Commercial’
High Density Multi-Family

Service Commercial

Single Family

ee

Transportation Corridor

REQUIRED RETAIL
FRONTAGE ZONES

FIGURE 11

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

RAILROAD
USPS POST OFFICE

TRAIN STATION

@ LIBRARIES

eee SAN MATEO CREEK (SUBSURFACE)
—— SAN MATEO CREEK (SURFACE)
me PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY
mimes DOWNTOWN PLAN STUDY AREA
REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE



--- page 565 ---
she

DOWNTOWN
URBAN DESIGN
PLAN

FIGURE 12

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

tah RAILROAD

TRAIN STATION

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SUBSURF;

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SURFACE)

PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY

DOWNTOWN PLAN
STUDY AREA

Existing Plaza

UZ
ESS

Susu

San Mateo Creek
Protection

7S’ BUILDING
HEIGHT

55 BUILDING
HEIGHT

1S LIMITED
Illustration of Building
Bulk Standards

OO E@ Wiic-Biock Pedestrian Connections

Natrual Landscaping to Define
Downtown Boundaries

Street Trees to Unite the Areas
East of the Railroad Tracks
Application of Downtown

Core Design Policies
Application of Historic/
Architectural Design Policies
Screening of Commercial
Areas East of RR Tracks
Application of Uniform

Building Line

ABOVE 55° BUILDING HEIGHT
MAXIMUM BULK DIMENSION

Figure 13. Illustration of Building Bulk Standards


--- page 566 ---
rt TT aeresiemeriean|-s— 4 BUILDING HEIGHT
: AND BULK PLAN
FIGURE 14

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

POST OFFICE
TRAIN STATION
LIBRARIES

.. SAN MATEO GREEK
(SUBSURFACE)

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SURFACE)



--- page 567 ---
CHAPTER 4 DOWNTOWN PLAN POLICIES

Street Wall Illustrations The height of the required street wall is equal to
Scale 1” = Approximately 50’ the distance from the street midpoint to the street
property line. See Building Height and Bulk

Plan.

75) Height Limit

Typical Street Wall
Zone - Street Width
96 Feet

I Property Centerline Property |

| Line of Street Line |
27-—_ L___————. 9g: ———————_—7

75) Height Limit

Typical Street Wall
Zone - Street Width

ee 80 Feet
I Property Centerline Property |
| Line of Street 7. |
ae ee. ne ||
75' Height Limit
rit 70"
Typical Street Wall
Zone - Street Width
SEERESIHTRE 70 Feet
I PL Centerline PL |
I of Street |

MF ce ——— 26

Figure 15. Street Wall Illustrations

72. CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN


--- page 568 ---
HISTORIC
RESOURCES
FIGURE 16

—ES-INWO

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009
0 200 400 600 800

Feet
LEGEND

Railroad
Post Office

+s | Train Station
|m
if, el ad cal Library
18] e498 5 ; ae a, of |e San Mateo Creek (subsurface)
a _& ne AVE 4 a Z =" 3 E Lo CLLe lly — San Mateo Creek (surface)
"| 2 oe TM Property Boundary
| ont a+
4 be Be

mm Downtown Plan Study Area

HISTORIC RE:

IRCES: HISTORIC DISTRICTS:

(1) National Register - Individually Listed /Z//4 Downtown Historic District

has | (3) National Register - Individually Eligible | | Glazenwood Historic District
(3/3D) National Register - Individually Eligible

AND/OR as Contributor to District HISTORIC POINTS:
(3D) National Register - & Railroad Bridges
Eligible as Contributor to District

(4) National Register - May be Individually Eligible with Additional Research

(4,5) National Register - May be Individually Eligible with Additional Research. And Local
Preservation-Individually Listed OR Individually Eligible OR Eligible as Contrib.to District

(5) Local Preservation - Individually Listed OR Individually Eligible OR Eligible as
Contributor to District

C7 | \\_t a . (5A) California Register/Landmark - Individually Listed OR Individually Eligible
TTT 1 | FH Col f E OR Eligible as Contributor to District

CENTRAL PARKING
IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT SERVICE:

FIGURE 17

HHH ss RAILROAD CPID PARKING FACILITIES
|] USPS POST OFFICE PVT PARKING

AVAIL EVENINGS
TRAIN STATION

LIBRARIES

ppv Ems CPID PRIMARY BENEFIT

ZONE (PBZ)

SAN MATEO CREEK

(SURFACE) (CENTRAL PARKING

PARKS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
CPID

PROPERTY BOUNDARY ini

ames OGANTrOWREEAN PARKING FACILITIES
STUDY AREA (CPID)

CPID LIMITED PARKING
ZONE (LPZ)



--- page 569 ---
DOWNTOWN RETAIL CORE DESIGN GUIDELINES 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/42557/Downtown-Retail-Core-and-Downtown-Historic-District-Design-
Guidelines?bidId=

--- page 570 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

Relationship to the Zoning Code

The Zoning Code addresses development controls regarding height, bulk, setbacks, parking and various other
controls. The design guidelines are intended to complement the Zoning Code to ensure that quality
developments are built. Section I of these guidelines illustrates major sections of the zoning code that affect
development in the downtown.

Project Evaluation

Proposed developments shall be reviewed for compliance with the Zoning Code, design guidelines and where
required, the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, When unusual characteristics of the
project such as unique scale or character of development in the surrounding area, make the use of the guidelines
inappropriate, the approving body may approve projects not in compliance with the guidelines, determining that
other solutions to design issues addressed in the guidelines may be preferable.

Format of the Guidelines
The design guidelines are divided into three sections that identify standards and guidelines:

® Zoning Code Standards

® Downtown Design Guidelines

® Historic District Standards and Design Guidelines
Each design guideline contains background information, design objectives, and illustrations to explain the
guideline, The drawings are intended to illustrate problems and solutions; they are not design examples to be
copied.

The guidelines represent minimum criteria for acceptable development. Other design problems specific to a site
may also need to be addressed.


--- page 571 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

Design Guidelines

A) Relate the height of new buildings to the pattern of Downtown.

The downtown area has a maximum permitted building height of 55 feet in most areas with 75 feet allowed on
some sites. However, most existing buildings are one to three stories in height. To achieve compatibility
between new projects and existing lower development, particularly where adjacent development is not likely to
redevelop due to historical or architectural importance, new projects should architecturally acknowledge the
height of adjacent buildings,

Architecturally acknowledge the height of adjacent structures by:

* Transitioning building heights with mid-rise building sections;

* Stepping back upper floors;

* The use of architectural elements such as roof cornices and awnings to acknowledge the height of
adjacent buildings;

Massing diagram of new construction with upper floors
setback from adjacent structures.


--- page 572 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

B) Building fronts should recognize the traditional lot widths in the downtown.

Typical older lots in the downtown range in width from 25 to 50 feet, On some parcels the building frontage is
further divided to accommodate individual tenants, New construction should acknowledge this development
pattern by providing changes to the street fronting facade every 25 to 50 feet. Ways to provide changes in the
facade include vertical recesses or projections, changes in building height, or changes in material and color.

Exceptions may be made on comer parcels or in areas dominated by larger structures where sections of up to
100 feet may be appropriate.

Design Objectives:

Provide a vertical change in the street fronting facade ai 25 to 50 foot intervals or less;
© Provide pedestrian entries within most sections of the facade,

A portion of Third Avenue in San Mateo illustrating
storefront widths and entrances,

al
om | | New building vertically divided into
ae

ie



--- page 573 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

C) Achieve a compatibility of diverse building styles by recognizing architectural
elements common to most buildings.

The downtown core contains a diversity of buildings, many of which share common architectural elements.
Typical architectural features found on buildings in the downtown include:

* Strong horizontal lines created by roof comices, cornices above retail windows and sign bands;
* Awnings above retail storefronts;

* Large retail display windows;

* Recessed entryways;

* Vertically shaped window openings above the ground floor;

* Sturdy material at the building base.

In some areas of the downtown other architectural elements further define groups of buildings. By
incorporating and aligning some of these key architectural elements, buildings of different architectural styles
can be made visually compatible. The design of architectural elements should take into account the size, scale
and materials of features on nearby buildings. A variety of creative ways of applying common architectural
components is encouraged so that new buildings are clearly differentiated from other structures, individual
building identity is expressed, and a false historical appearance is not created.

Design Objective:
New construction should incorporate dominant architectural elements common to the nearby buildings.

Characteristics of these

two existing buildings:

* Strong top and mid cornice

® Double hung windows in pairs
* Tile kick plate

Common Arch. elements
included in the design on a
new building in this

an Roof comice
7 | —"— Similar window pattern

ri] en



--- page 574 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

D) Provide detailing that enriches the architectural character and provides three
dimensional depth to the facade.

The more memorable buildings in downtown San Mateo have architectural detailing that is in seale with human
Proportions and is interesting to view. Shadows created by bay windows, awnings, comices, and recessed
entries create a three dimensional appearance to the building face. Interesting architectural detailing can also be
added with decorative lighting, decorative tile, and other omamentation as necessary. Where the rear or

interior side of a building is visible from a public area, it should also be finished in a manner compatible with
the front of the building,

Design Objecti
Provide architectural detailing that:

* Is visually interesting to the pedestrian;
* Creates a three dimensional appearance to the facade;
* Is consistent with the level of detail on surrounding buildings,

Building with a high level of
detailing that provides a three
dimensional appearance to the
storefront including:

* Recessed windows and doors;
* Awnings;

* Omamentation:

The taller building lacks detailing and visual interest.
The flush fitting windows, smal] entry and almost flush
awning create a flat appearance not consistent with
downtown San Mateo. The small proportions of these
architectural features are also out of scale with the front
facade and accentuate the size of the building.



--- page 575 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

E)}. Entrances.

Recessed entrances provide standing areas for window shopping and conversation that are out of the pedestrian
flow and are protected from wind and rain. Recessed entrances also add to the appearance of depth in the

facade. The building wall above the recessed entry should maintain the street wall by following the property
line.

Recess entrances to allow window shopping and pedestrian standing room.

Options for recessed
entries.

Options for comer
entrances.

10


--- page 576 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

F) Use Windows to Define Floor Levels.

In downtown San Mateo, ground floor windows generally are larger than those for upper floors, indicating a
difference in use and location of floor levels, Typically, the ground floor of commercial buildings allow a view
of activity within by having a large proportion of window to solid wall. This distinction helps to define the first
floor as being more open to the public and the upper floors as having a different use, Ground floor windows
are also generally made of large panes of undivided, clear glass.

Maintain the distinction between upper and lower floor levels by:

* Developing the ground floor as primarily windows and doors;

* On the ground floor use large panes of clear glass;

* On upper floors use windows that identify the number of floor levels;

Dominant use of glass on the ground

floor distinguishes it from the upper
floor .

The continuous vertical glass
does not differentiate floor levels,

11


--- page 577 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

G) Awnings/Canopies

Awnings and canopies add depth to the appearance of a storefront, provide a location for signage and shield
pedestrians from sun and rain. They also can improve the look of a building when the size, location and color
reflect the archilecture and geometry of the building. Installation requires an encroachment permit from the
Public Works Department if over the public right-of-way, must maintain eight feet of clearance above the
sidewalk, and should not conflict with street trees or other public improvements.

Awnings may also include signage. The City’s sign code should be reviewed for a complete description of
signage allowances.

Awnings or canopies are not required on any building. However if they are included, they should meet these
design objectives.

Design Objective:

Awnings shall:

« Fit the dimensions of the storefront openings to emphasize building proportions;
Maintain views of important architectural details;

Be aligned with other awnings on the block where appropriate;

Coordinate with the color scheme of the entire building front;

Be constructed with quality materlals that maintain their integrity over the years.

es = @

Awnings that complement the proportions and openings of a historic building.


--- page 578 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

H) Maintain visually interesting activity at the sidewalk edge,

In areas whers retail frontage is required, new buildings must have 75% of the width along the street devoted to
pedestrian entrances or transparent windows. In areas where retail frontage is not required, buildings should
continue to provide interest along the sidewalk. This may be accomplished with transparent windows, display
windows at least two foot deep, landscaping where appropriate, or architectural detailing.

Design Objective:

Provide visual interest te all facades fronting on a street.

A blank facade with only minimal
landscaping lacks interest.

Interest is increased

with additional landscaping,
display or regular windows,
and base and cornice trim.


--- page 579 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

I) Articulate the pedestrian area through the use of architectural and pedestrian
improvements,

Pedestrian areas should be designed to maximize comfort and safety. This can be accomplished by providing
architectural and public improvements that separate the pedestrian from auto areas and create a sense of
enclosure along the sidewalk. Architectural elements that contribute toward this are awnings, recessed windows
and doorways, street trees and sidewalk furniture.

Design Objective:

® Include pedestrian oriented archilectural improvements on building fronts to further define
the sidewalk area as a comfortable and interesting pedestrian place,

© = «©Design for pedestrians in the public right-of-way by providing improvements such as street
trees, special sidewalk paving, and sidewalk furniture, in accordance with City standards,

Building elements that improve the sidewalk area
for the pedestoan:

* Awnings

* Recessed windows and doors

* Omamental lighting, detailing and other
architectural elements
Street trees

* Special paving

* Sidewalk furniture

dee (TEL Be CHP)

4
TREE (i SHCLAN aL Pa Aber]
BARHCHED LP a! at

eine

Downtown standard tree
planting detail, see aie Rg IRRISATIOe BUBBLER cx)
Appendix B for the i

, Pca.
Downtown Street Tree Ie Cereus at or tt
Master Plan. by Ghee JH) Fea anevts.
THEMOLA fb BACHE AUR go
TMT. Gt ornsim. Reon

14


--- page 580 ---
Downtown Design Guidelines

J) Private Plazas, Outdoor restaurant seating and outdoor display of merchandise.

Outdoor restaurant seating and the display of merchandise limited to plants, books and food is encouraged to
add visual interest and activity to the sidewalk. Seating or merchandise display may occur on private plazas
adjacent to the sidewalk where the greater part of the building continues a property line street facade,
Merchandise can often be displayed in the recessed entry of a building. Seating or merchandise display may
also be allowed on the public sidewalk where adequate space exists. Planters, low walls or other low barriers
that are architecturally compatible with the building may be used to separate seating areas from the sidewalk.
Any display or seating must consider accessibility requirements and avoid potential tripping hazards, An
encroachment permit is required for improvements to or use of the public right-of-way.

Design Obiective:

® Encourage larger developments to include private plazas adjacent to the sidewalk for outdoor
restaurant seating and relaxation.

© Consider possibilities for merchandise display in the design of recessed entryways while maintaining
accessibility requirements.

® Consider locations within the public right-of-way for outdoor restaurant seating and
merchandise display (limited to plants, books and food) where a minimum of eight feet of
usable sidewalk remains between vertical public improvements (e.g. utility poles, fire
hydrant, news boxes) and the seating area.

Restaurant seating provided
behind the sidewalk on private
property and on the sidewalk
where adequate space exists.

recessed entryway.



--- page 581 ---
per

K. Alleyways/Midblock Pedestrian Areas

A variety of secondary circulation areas exist between the major downtown streets in the form of alleys,
midblock pedestrian walkways and public parking facilities. These areas allow service access to businesses,
access to parking and pedestrian short-cuts between blocks. Property fronting on alleyways and midblock
pedestrian ways should be architecturally attractive, safe and inviting for pedestrians, in addition to
accommodating the necessary service uses,

Desi * ives

Alleyways/Midblock Pedestrian Areas shall:

* Provide architectural finishes and detailing along alleys or other visible portions af
buildings that are interesting to the pedestrian;

Architecturally acknowledge entrances with canopies, detailing, signage and landscaping

where possible;

* Shield trash and mechanical equipment from view with solid, durable enclosures;

Be designed for safety by providing adequate lighting and avoiding areas that are concealed
from view;

*

Existing alley with
inconspicuous building
entrances and visible trash
and utility systems.

Improvements to the alley
include: ,

* Awnings

@———° Lighting

* Landscaping

* Trash and utility enclosure

16


--- page 582 ---
Source: 2020 Bicycle Master Plan

Legend

Bike Facility

= Completed Bicycle Boulevard
== Completed Bike Lane

<= Completed Buffered Bike Lane
«ss Proposed Bicycle Boulevard

= ««® Proposed Bicycle Route

eee* Proposed Bike Lane

sees Proposed Buffered Bike Lane
#88 Proposed Separated Bike Lane
(#888 Proposed Shared Use Path



--- page 583 ---
Source: 2012 Pedestrian Master Plan

City of San Mateo | Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan

A.6. Sidewalk Standards - Retail/Commerical Type A Parallel Parking

NOTES

» Orient bike parking in
planter/furniture zone
parallel to sidewalk
to remain clear of
through zone.

Toe A - Sidewalk Along Parallel Parking |

» Amenities located in
the planter/furniture
zone may indude
signage, street lights,
meeweracks, bus ywairting
areas, benches,
parking pay stations,

et bike parking, street
atime trees, etc.

» Limit building awnings/
overhangs to frontage
zene depth.

« Utilize flex use zone
for cafe seating (by
permit).

» Example - East side of
5, B St, between 5th
amd 7th Anne.

Talander iasocoica * }

“Graphics show recommended dimansions.

Alta Planning + Design | A-9


--- page 584 ---


--- page 585 ---
COMMERCIAL DATA SHEET 
*Based on conceptual plans submitted for Pre-Application. 
NAME: 31 – 57 S. B Street (Pre-
App) 
PA: 2021-082 
ADDRESS: 31 – 57 S. B Street 
 
LAND AREA: 16,413 sf (0.37 ac) 
ZONING:  
Current Zoning Designation: C1-2/R5  
Proposed Zoning Reclassification: CBD 
APN: 034-154-030 
 
 
 
Requirements Under Current Zoning: 
C1-2/R5 
Requirements Under Proposed 
Zoning: CBD 
FLOOR AREA: 
PROPOSED: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
  Commercial - Retail 
5,434 sf 
 
 
  Office  
36,365 sf 
 
 
Total: 
41,799 sf 
32,826 sf 
49,239 sf 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): 
2.54 
2.0 FAR 
 
3.0 FAR 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
54 feet 
55 feet 
55 feet 
STORIES:  
4-story 
subject to building height 
subject to building height 
SETBACKS: 
PROPOSED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
  Front: 
0 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Left Side: 
0 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Right Side: 
0 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Rear: 
0 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
BICYCLE PARKING: 
PROPOSED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
  Short-term (visitor) racks: 
Not shown 
Retail (1 per 2,000 sf): 2.72 
Office (1 per 20,000 sf): 1.81 
Subtotal: 5 
Retail (1 per 2,000 sf): 2.72 
Office (1 per 20,000 sf): 1.81 
Subtotal: 5 
  Long-term facility: 
Not shown 
Retail (1 per 12,000 sf): 0.45 
Office (1 per 10,000 sf): 3.64 
Subtotal: 7 
Retail (1 per 12,000 sf): 0.45 
Office (1 per 10,000 sf): 3.64 
Subtotal: 7

--- page 586 ---
TOTAL BICYCLE PARKING: 
Not shown 
12 
12  
VEHICULAR PARKING: 
PROPOSED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
(based on gross floor area) 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
(based on gross floor area) 
TOTAL VEHICULAR PARKING: 
No parking provided on site. 
 
Retail (1.9 per 1,000 gfa): 10.32 
General Office (2.6 per 1,000 gfa): 
94.55 
(Dimensions and calculations needed 
to verify required parking.) 
Retail (1.9 per 1,000 gfa): 10.32 
General Office (2.6 per 1,000 gfa): 
94.55 
(Dimensions and calculations needed 
to verify required parking.) 
COVERED PARKING: 
- 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
LOADING: 
Not shown. 
Retail: 1 space (10’ x 25’) 
Office: none (for <50,000 sf) 
Retail: 1 space (10’ x 25’) 
Office: none (for <50,000 sf) 
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING: 
- 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
FLOOD ZONE: 
- 
Not within flood zone. 
Not within flood zone. 
STREET WALL: 
Appears to meet requirement; but, 
more detail is needed to verify 
45 degree from midpoint of public 
right-of-way 
45 degree from midpoint of public 
right-of-way 
OPEN SPACE:  
Ground level: 403 sf 
Roof top terraces: 2,844 sf 
More info needed to verify 
compliance. 
Not required. 
1% of non-residential floor area; no 
requirement for open space if 
resulting open space is less than 200 
sf. Minimum width of 25 ft along 
sidewalk. 50% of open space area 
shall be unshaded between noon and 
2 pm at spring and fall equinox, 
except if shaded by existing building. 
Open space shall include public use 
facilities. 
BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK: 
Approx. 28 ft set back at office 
entrance (24.6%) 
Not required. 
S. B Street and First Avenue sides Up 
to 25% of building line may be set 
back from property line to provide 
for open space. 
BUFFERS: 
Not applicable. 
Buffers required for C1 zoned 
properties when it abuts any  
residential districts.  
Buffers required for CBD zoned 
properties when it abuts any 
residential district.  
REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE: 
 
 
S. B Street: yes, subject to RRF 
First Avenue: no, not subject to RRF 
(see 2009 Downtown Area Plan)

--- page 587 ---
View of Interiors 
May meet CBD Required Retail 
Frontage requirement on both 
streets; however, dimensions & 
calculations are needed to verify. 
MINIMUM REQUIRED:  
 
Not applicable. 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
Minimum 75% devoted to entrances 
& windows 
 
  Ground Floor Entries to 
Other Uses 
 
 
S. B Street: Approx. 28 ft (24.6%) 
 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
 
Not applicable. 
  
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
Up to 25% for entrances to uses 
other than permitted uses in 
Required Retail 
  Second Floor Offices 
 
 
 
Appears to meet CBD requirement 
on both streets.  
 
 
Not applicable. 
Offices permitted on second floor 
only if ground floor is occupied by 
one of the permitted uses in 
Required Retail 
NOTES:  
• Conceptual plans do not contain level of detail necessary to verify code compliance. Project data is subject to change upon submittal of more 
detail plans and reviewed during the formal planning application.   
• New projects located within the Central Parking Improvement District (CPID) may request a Parking Demand Study to determine off-street 
parking ratios specific to the office component of the project [SMMC 27.64.100(a)(5)]. Parking in-lieu fees may also be paid for eligible off-site 
parking stalls not provided on-site. 
• Archeological – Site is located in high sensitivity area; therefore, an evaluation will be conducted during formal planning application. 
• Historical – Buildings over 50 years old; therefore, a Historic Resource Evaluation will be conducted during formal planning application.  
• Noise – Site is located within area of high noise due to proximity to Caltrain station. 
• Tree – Project includes removal of street trees and will be required to plant new street trees. 
• Grading – Insufficient information to determine at this time.  
• Traffic/VMT/TDM – TBD  
• Easements – Existing shared alley/driveway off of First Avenue is proposed to remain.

--- page 588 ---
Att 5 – Zoning and Required Retail Frontage Maps 
 
Excerpt of Zoning Map focusing on the Downtown Area.  
Source: City of San Mateo Zoning Map  
 
 
Map of Downtown streets that are subject to the Required Retail Frontage requirement.  
Source: 2009 Downtown Area Plan 
 
 
PROJECT SITE

--- page 589 ---
Page 1 of 13 
 
                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 7, 2022 
 
Sent via email only  
 
Preston O’Connell 
DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC 
180 Grand Avenue, Suite 1400 
Oakland, CA 94610 
(510) 466-1485 
(Sent via Email: poconnell@harvestproperties.com) 
 
Subject:  
PA-2021-082, 31 S. B Street (Pre-App) 
 
31 – 57 S. B Street, APN 034-15-030 
 
Dear Mr. O’Connell: 
 
 
This letter summarizes initial comments from the City’s Development Review Board and the Planning 
Division relating to the above referenced Preliminary Application “Pre-App” submittal from December 
27, 2021. The comments from all reviewing departments are attached. The project can now proceed 
with a neighborhood meeting and a Planning Commission Study Session. Staff will follow-up with you 
separately to schedule the dates. 
 
Please contact me at (650) 522-7216 or via email at jklein@cityofsanmateo.org for any questions about 
the comments in this letter and to discuss next steps in the Pre-App process. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Julia Klein 
Principal Planner 
 
cc: File 
 
Property Owner/Applicant Representative (dfriend@harvestproperties.com, 
tissadore@harvestproperties.com, jstone@prometheusreg.com) 
 
Development Review Board 
 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
                                            330 West 20th Avenue 
 
                                             San Mateo, CA 94403
 
                        www.cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 590 ---
Page 2 of 13 
 
PA-2021-082, 31 S B Street Pre-App 
PRE-APPLICATION COMMENTS  
March 7, 2022 
 
The following list includes high-level comments identified by staff during the review of the pre-
application. Please note this is a short list of design issues and additional comments and/or 
Code requirements will be provided with the future formal application. Questions about the 
comments below can be directed to the reviewing Department/Division’s contact person and 
with the project planner copied (Julia Klein jklein@cityofsanmateo.org). 
 
Planning Division: 
 
Please address the following comments prior to the formal planning application submittal. 
___________      1. 
The conceptual plans include proposed change within the public right-of-
way area that are not consistent with the City’s adopted policies and 
plans. Please refer to comments below by Public Works Department for 
more detail.  
___________      2. 
The project site is located within a portion of the Downtown that is 
subject to the Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines. The conceptual 
plans do not appear to meet the minimum criteria for evaluating 
developments. Please see the Design Comments below for more detail. 
___________      3. 
Provide the gross floor area of each level based on the definition of “floor 
area” in the Zoning Code as a separate exhibit. It should be noted that 
parking, loading and bicycle parking requirements are calculated based 
on gross floor area. These have the potential of impacting the Public 
Right-of-Way (ROW) and Downtown parking (aka the Central Parking 
Improvement District).  
___________      4. 
Calculate the area of all proposed at-grade open space and provide as a 
separate exhibit. 
Code and Policy Concerns 
___________      1. 
The project design will be reviewed for conformance with the General 
Plan Policies and Elements, including Land Use and Urban Design. The 
project must also meet the required findings for a Site Plan and 
Architectural Review planning application. Sample policies and findings 
can be reviewed in the links provided. Additional comments will be 
provided during the Study Session with the Planning Commission.  
___________      2. 
The project will be reviewed for consistency with the goals and policies of 
the Downtown Plan including policies II.2 to IV.6 pertaining to the 
proposed uses, public right-of-way, building mass/bulk and design, and 
street trees and build to line (see figure 12).    
___________      3. 
The project will be reviewed for conformance with the San Mateo 
Municipal Code. Based on the conceptual plans, the following concerns 
have been identified:

--- page 591 ---
Page 3 of 13 
 
a. Building Height – Building height is measured from existing grade to 
top of plate. Please show building height on each Elevation. Also, 
indicate the height of the roof top elements and screens. 
b. Adjacent Buildings and ROW - On the Existing and Proposed Site Plans 
and Elevations, please show the adjacent buildings and public right-
of-way and include dimensions, building height (as measured from 
existing grade to top of plate and the heights for elements extending 
above the roof).   
c. Parking - The proposed project is subject to the off-street parking 
requirements of SMMC 27.64.100 for projects located in the Central 
Parking Improvement District (CPID).  
a. The project site is located within the CPID’s Primary Benefit 
Zone (PBZ) and South B Street is designated as Limited Parking 
Zone (LPZ), the latter limits new vehicular access on South B 
Street. SMMC 27.64.100 (4, A) specifically states, “New 
vehicular access to loading facilities, parking lots or structures 
and buildings is prohibited along street frontages within the 
limited parking zone.” Therefore, no new vehicular access can 
be provided on S. B Street. 
b. The proposed project does not include on-site parking; 
however, SMMC 27.64.100 (4, D) enables the proposed 
project to pay a fee in-lieu of providing the required parking 
on-site. The proposed project may either: 1) pay Parking In-
Lieu Fee for the number of required parking spaces as 
determined by the Parking Demand Study, or 2) pay the 
Parking In-Lieu Fee by calculating the required parking spaces 
using the parking ratios listed in SMMC 27.64.100.  
d. Loading Spaces – The requirement for loading spaces for private 
development is based on the gross floor area (which will need to be 
provided). Please provide the gross floor area, the number of 
required loading spaces and show how this requirement is proposed 
to be met.  
Based on the Pre-Application plans, the project appears to require up 
to two on-site loading spaces (10’x25’ each). Please indicate where 
the project’s required loading spaces will be located. If it is proposed 
in the public right-of-way, please explain why it cannot be located on-
site given that the site is being completely redeveloped and the 
existing back of house functions would continue to be accessible by 
the shared driveway; describe the conflicts/impacts to bus service, 
public parking, etc. and how the project proposes to address the 
impacts. Please be advised that: i) SMMC 27.64.100 (4, A) limits new 
vehicular access on South B Street and ii) there is an existing 
SamTrans bus stop along the First Avenue frontage. Please ensure 
early coordination with staff as you design the required loading zones

--- page 592 ---
Page 4 of 13 
 
e. Proposed Uses in the Public Right-of-Way – Proposed features such as 
transformers, utilities, loading zone, furniture, landscaping, lights, etc. 
should be located to ensure clear path of travel consistent with the 
adopted Pedestrian Master Plan. (Refer to Public Works Department’s 
comments below for additional detail.) 
f. Trash/Recycling/Composting - Indicate the proposed storage location 
for bins and staging area for pick-up.  
g. On-Street Parking – Show location and dimensions of existing parking 
on the adjacent streets. How many public parking spaces are 
proposed to be removed? It should be noted that loss of metered 
spaces will be require annual payments, pursuant to SMMC 
27.64.100(a,9).     
h. Parcels - The project site and shared driveway appear to be two 
separate parcels. Please clarify whether the proposed project would 
include merging parcels. Additionally, please indicate whether the 
proposed project would include the creation of commercial 
condominiums. 
i. The property is currently zoned C1-2/R5 which allows a base Floor 
Area Ratio of up to 2.0 for commercial/non-residential use and up to 
3.0 for mixed-use projects with residential. As proposed, the 
retail/office project appears to exceed the 2.0 FAR. In order to utilize 
the maximum allowable Floor Area Ratio of 3.0 associated with 
Central Business District (CBD), the request for rezoning would need 
to be approved first; or processed concurrently with the entitlement 
for this development project.  
Design Comments 
___________      5. 
Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines – The project site is subject to 
the Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines. As stated in the guidelines, 
“The guidelines represent minimum criteria for acceptable 
development.” As presently designed, there are concerns as outlined 
below. Please describe how the proposed project is consistent with, or 
exceeds, each of the Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines.  
a. Relate proposed building to existing development pattern in 
Downtown including: 
i. 
Transitioning building heights in relation to nearby structures, 
use of architectural elements to acknowledge height of 
adjacent buildings. Refer to Guideline A.  
ii. 
Vertical change in street fronting façade at 25 to 50 foot 
intervals or less. Refer to Guideline B.  
iii. 
New building should incorporate dominant architectural 
elements common to nearby buildings. Refer to Guideline C.

--- page 593 ---
Page 5 of 13 
 
b. Proposed building should include more articulation and elements that 
add depth including:  
a. Provide architectural detailing at the pedestrian level, creates 
three dimensional appearance (with recessed windows and 
doors, ornamentations, etc.) similar to surrounding buildings. 
Refer to Guideline D & E. 
b. On upper floors use windows to define floor levels. Refer to 
Guideline F.  
c. Provide awnings/canopies that add depth to storefronts, 
provide location for signage and shield pedestrians from 
sun/rain. Refer to Guideline G. 
c. Proposed building (side facing the alley/driveway) should be 
architecturally attractive, safe and inviting for pedestrians in addition 
to accommodating the necessary service uses. Refer to Design 
Objectives in Guideline K.  
d. Designing for all sides of a building - Consider architectural detailing 
on the North Elevation particularly the portion of the proposed 
building that will be above the height of the adjacent building.  
___________      6. 
The Formal Planning Application may be reviewed by the City’s design 
review consultant, Cannon Design Group, pending input from the 
Planning Commission. 
Informational Items 
___________      1. 
All applicable submittal items in the Planning Application Guide. 
___________      2. 
The application form needs to be signed by all property owners or the 
individuals legal authorized to sign on behalf of the company. Please 
provide the Power of Attorney, Article of Incorporation or other similar 
documentation attesting to the individual’s authority including their 
names, titles and signatures. 
___________      3. 
The proposed project will be reviewed for compliance with all applicable 
objective City standards, including the Zoning Code, General Plan, 
Pedestrian Master Plan, Bicycle Master Plan, Downtown Area Plan 
(Retail Core subarea), and Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines. 
___________      4. 
City of San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) Consistency Checklist forms 
to be completed (see Appendix 3). Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Study 
is required and will be prepared by a City-managed consultant. 
___________      5. 
All commercial development projects with a building permit valuation of 
three million dollars or more shall be subject to Public Art per SMMC 
23.60. Please provide the location(s) of the proposed public artwork on 
the plan. For more information, please visit the Civic Arts Committee 
website. Please note that a painting on the wall is typically not 
acceptable as Public Art in meeting the requirements of SMMC 23.60.

--- page 594 ---
Page 6 of 13 
 
___________      6. 
All public utility service connections shall be located underground per 
SMMC 27.44.040(a). All other above grade utility equipment shall be 
screened from view and/or integrated into the building design. 
___________      7. 
Letter from Adjacent Property Owner(s) confirming their agreement for 
the changes to the shared Alley/EVA lane and temporary limits on use 
during construction.  
___________      8. 
Landscaping and Water Conservation - Provide information on how the 
project is proposed to comply with SMMC 27.72 Landscaping and SMMC 
23.72 Water Conservation in Landscaping. 
___________      9. 
Commercial Linkage Fee and Link to Other Project(s) – There are no 
adopted ordinances or approved policies that would allow this project to 
link with another one as it relates to the Commercial Linkage Fee or 
concurrent processing of two separate projects. There are no ordinance, 
policies or other similar mechanisms to enable this request. Please 
remove this from the Applicant’s Project Description Letter and 
anywhere else it is mentioned.  
___________      10. Vector Control Plan – There is a known rodent problem in this part of 
Downtown, therefore, please submit a Vector Control Plan including pre-
construction surveys with baits, construction monitoring and reporting, 
and post-construction monitoring and treatment measures.  
___________      11. The proposed project is anticipated to require the following application 
types: 
a. General Plan Amendment to reclassify the property from C1-2/R5 
to Central Business District (CBD), subject to review and a 
recommendation by the Planning Commission and City Council, 
and a 
b. Site Plan and Architectural Review (SMMC 27.08.030) for a new 
building and site changes, subject to a Planning Commission 
decision, appealable to the City Council. 
It should be noted that additional application types may be required 
depending upon the formal planning application. Additionally, the 
rezoning may be taken separately to the Planning Commission and City 
Council prior to the planning application for the proposed development 
project. 
___________      12. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) - For the purposes of 
evaluating the proposed project’s potential impact on the environment, 
additional special and technical studies may be required, depending 
upon the final project design and floor area, such as: 
traffic/transportation/Vehicles Miles Travel analysis, Transportation 
Demand Management analysis, air quality/emissions, etc.    
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Julia 
Klein, Principal Planner, at (650) 522-7216 or via e-mail at jklein@cityofsanmateo.org.

--- page 595 ---
Page 7 of 13 
 
 
Building Division: 
 
 
Please note the review of this Pre-App is a cursory review only.  The applicable edition of 
codes and regulations of Title 24 of the California Codes and Regulations for building permit 
application shall be based on the FILING DATE OF THE BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION per the 
California Building Standards Commission. The following comments may need to be 
addressed on the plans submitted for the formal planning application: 
___________      1. 
Codes and regulations: 
For a building of new construction that is housing non-residential use, 
please note the following codes and regulations do not apply, and they 
need to be removed from list: 
a. The California Residential Code; and 
b.  The California Existing Building Code. 
___________      2. 
Allowable building area: 
Detailed analysis for allowable building area for each floor level and the 
entire building in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the 
California Building Code. 
___________      3. 
Plumbing fixtures: 
Required plumbing fixtures for men and women where restroom 
compartments are required by Table 422.1 of the California Plumbing 
Code and privacy is required by Chapter 12 of the California Building 
Code, etc.  
___________      4. 
Means of egress: 
Detailed analysis of the means of egress system, especially for the 
required number of exits and direction of door swing for the occupants 
from the terraces on the 3rd and 4th level, etc. 
___________      5. 
Accessibility: 
Detailed plans for the accessible routes from the site arrival points to all 
entrances and ground floor exits as required by Chapter 11B of the 
California Building Code. 
___________      6. 
Photovoltaic system: 
Provide building elevations/sections to clarify the height of the PV panels 
above the roof in order to clarify that the PV panels will not be 
considered as an additional story where limited by the Type of 
Construction and Occupancy Groups housed by the proposed building 
per Chapter 5 of the California Building Code. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Isaac 
Hau, S.E., Plan Check Engineer, at (650) 522-7185 or via e-mail at hau@cityofsanmateo.org.

--- page 596 ---
Page 8 of 13 
 
 
San Mateo Consolidated (SMC) Fire: 
The following item(s) should be considered for the formal application. 
___________      1. 
Provide a detailed analysis of the proposed construction type including 
setbacks. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Melinda 
Martin, Deputy Fire Marshall, at (650) 522-7947 or via e-mail at mmartin@smcfire.org.  
Public Works Engineering: 
 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and 
additional comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal planning 
application. 
General 
___________      1. 
This project will need to provide a preliminary construction logistic plan 
to show the impact of the construction to the surrounding area, indicate 
how the groundwater discharge will be handled. Plans should indicate 
any ground water baker tanks and discharging location. 
___________      2. 
This project will require the payment of several impact fees, including but 
not limited to:  Wastewater Treatment Expansions Fee, Transportation 
Improvement Fee, Parking In-Lieu Fee, and Sanitary Sewer Connection 
Fee. 
___________      3. 
This project will require several agreements and permits to be in place 
prior to the first Building Permit, including but not limited to:  
Encroachment Permit, Subdivision Improvement Agreement, Stormwater 
O&M Agreement (for C.3 and GI). 
Street Improvements 
___________      4. 
Sheet C2.50, shows curb extensions at 1st Avenue / South B Street and 1st 
Street / Transit Center Way intersections.  The City’s Pedestrian Master 
Plan do not call for any Curb Extensions at these street corners. Please 
revise and remove the curb extension.  
___________      5. 
Sheet C2.50, shows that curb line along S. B Street is relocated to 
accommodate wider sidewalk along that frontage.  Narrowing of the 
street is not acceptable due to the proposed future bike facilities along 
the project frontage on B street and existing cub to curb street width 
should be maintained.  Please revise.  
___________      6. 
All curb ramps at the intersections adjacent to the project shall be 
removed and replaced.  Project will be required to upgrade all ramps at 
1st Avenue/S. B Street intersection.

--- page 597 ---
Page 9 of 13 
 
___________      7. 
Project will be required to remove and replace curb, gutter and sidewalk 
along all frontages.  Sidewalk widths and frontage improvements on all 
frontages is recommended to comply with the Pedestrian Master Plan.   
___________      8. 
Pavement restoration shall include the curb-to-curb width of the 
roadways and entire intersections adjacent to the project.  
___________      9. 
Provide a table on the plan showing the number of bike racks provided, 
indicating off-site and on-site, and short-term and long-term. 
___________      10. Clearly show the proposed solid waste staging area and provide a solid 
waste handling plan. 
___________      11. Project shall do a photometric study and provide adequate streetlights 
along all frontages.  Photometric analysis information will be provided at 
the formal plan submittal. 
___________      12. The applicant shall be responsible for updating the traffic signal at all 
intersections to the latest standards and requirements if needed. 
___________      13. Project is recommended to comply with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan 
A.6. Sidewalk Standards for 1st Avenue and S. B Street frontages.   
___________      14. Project is recommended to comply with the City’s Bicycle Master Plan.  
City’s Bicycle Mater plan requires separated bike lane along South B 
Street and Bike Lane along 1st Avenue frontage. 
___________      15. The loading zone is required to be on site per SMMC 27.64.310.  Loading 
zone dimensions shall comply with SMMC 27.64.320. Please refer to 
Planning comment above regarding gross floor area for the purposes of 
calculating required loading spaces.  
Utilities Improvements 
___________      16. Show all existing and proposed utilities infrastructures. Show all main 
lines along the project frontages and laterals serving the site. 
___________      17. Clearly identify new SD and SS lateral connections, and identify any 
existing laterals being abandoned/plugged.  Water line should not be 
abandoned in place, all unused water laterals should be removed and 
capped at main.   
___________      18. Project shall provide separate water and sewer service connection for 
each use. 
___________      19. Project shall underground distribution lines serving the project per 
Municipal Code 26.32.020. Project should underground over-head utility 
lines along its property line on S. Claremont Street and 3rd Street 
frontages and remove related poles. 
___________      20. Project shall provide preliminary sewer study to ensure adequate 
capacity on City facilities.   
___________      21. Storm Drain - Project shall provide preliminary Hydrology report, 
demonstrating no increase on the flow (10-year storm, 6-hour duration at

--- page 598 ---
Page 10 of 13 
 
90% capacity, with the City’s rainfall intensity curve) and showing that 10-
year flow HGL within the City pipe and 100-year flow below the street 
curb elevation.  Plans need to clearly show how stormwater runoff from 
the roof drains, area drains, and site flow will be captured, treated within 
their respective DMA (or off-site), and discharged to the city main. Plans 
need to show all storm drain infrastructures, including but not limited to 
piping, drains, catch-basins, manholes, pumping systems and dissipators. 
___________      22. All new and project related utility boxes shall be located on-site within an 
adequate easement. 
Storm-water Quality 
___________      23. Projects shall provide San Mateo Countywide C3 and C6 checklist and 
certification as part of plan submittal for City record; which can be found 
under the Forms & Checklist at the following link: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-
new-redevelopment/c-3-regulated-projects/. Project need to strive to 
provide 100% LID treatment. 
Plans need to clearly show how stormwater runoff from the roof drains, 
area drains, and site flow will be captured, treated within their respective 
DMA (or off-site), and discharged to the city main. All storm run-off must 
be treated per section C3 of the Municipal Regional Permit.  
___________      24. In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, the 
applicant shall install and maintain Green Infrastructure (GI) 
improvements along project frontages.  The improvements shall be in 
accordance with the guidance and specifications provided by San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or City of San Mateo GI 
Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee.  
___________      25. Show locations of trash capture devices consistent with the State Water 
Resources Control Board’s definition of Full Capture System. Trash 
capture device(s) are required, at minimum, at the last private storm 
appurtenances before connecting to the City System. 
___________      26. Storm Water Treatment Specific Comments: Project showing treatment 
area in 3rd and 4th floor.  These likely treat some of the roof areas runoff 
and should be defined as separate Drainage Management Area (DMA).  If 
the project is all Low Impact Development (LID) treatment, it needs to 
show treatment for the entire site.  If non-LID measures are being 
utilized, please provide infeasibility memo as part of the formal 
submittal. 
General Plan Submittal Requirements 
___________      27. Submit the following applicable items with the Formal Planning 
Application Submittal.

--- page 599 ---
Page 11 of 13 
 
a. Provide a copy of any recorded map and/or deed for all existing 
easements. 
b. A complete entitlement plan set (see comment below) 
c. Water Quality - Storm Water Control Plan (see comment below) 
d. REPORTS – Submit copies of all applicable preliminary reports and 
studies for the project, including but not limited to, environmental, 
geo-tech, drainage, water, sewer. 
___________      28. The entitlement plan set shall include the following sheets: 
A. Title sheet shall include the following information: 
i. 
Owner’s name and address 
ii. 
Name and address of all consultants (Civil Engineer, Land 
Surveyor, Geotechnical Engineer, Architect) 
iii. 
Flood Zone (state if project is within the Special Flood Hazard 
Area) 
B. Existing Site Plan: A site plan showing existing conditions. The plan 
should show existing utilities, easements, rights-of-way, streets, 
sections, adjacent property owners, APN, structures, and other 
topographic information. Label facilities to be removed or altered. 
C. Proposed Site Plan: The proposed site plan should show all new 
improvements including street rights-of-way, sidewalk, trees, lights, 
walls, and other structures. Cross-section should be provided across 
each boundary and across the site. Grading and drainage information 
may be shown if space allows, otherwise include on a separate sheet. 
All proposed streets and improvements shall meet City’s requirement 
and standard. 
D. Proposed Utility Plan: Show all proposed utilities for the project. 
Identify points of connection to existing systems, and ownership of all 
utilities. Identify size and material of wet utilities. Label any 
easements associated with any utility shown.  
E. Grading and Drainage Plan: Show general topography, contour lines, 
existing and proposed elevations for structures and site.  Show TC 
grades at all BC, EC and angle points within the proposed site area. 
Include drainage facilities, size, slope, rim and invert elevation.  
Clearly demonstrate how the flow will be captured and conveyed off-
site. 
F. Circulation Plan: Provide a circulation plan for emergency vehicles 
and solid waste collection vehicles with turning templates and 
showing truck turning movements. 
G. Solid Waste handling Plan: Provide an exhibit showing the enclosure 
location and detail, the solid waste truck success, staging area, and

--- page 600 ---
Page 12 of 13 
 
generation calc.  Project need to demonstrate how each will have 
separate bin. 
H. Storm Water Control Plan:   Add a plan sheet for Storm Water 
Control. Show and label all drainage areas, treatment measures, 
drainage flow lines, high points, and low points. Each treatment 
measure shall have an independent drainage area which shall be 
designated. Provide sections and details for grading, drainage, and 
treatment measures. Add a table correlating the drainage areas to 
the treatment measures and summarizing the treatment provided. 
___________      29. Storm Water Treatment: Submit a Storm Water Control Plan (SWCP) in 
compliance with Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) to verify sufficient 
treatment.  The submitted SWCP shall include the following: 
a. C.3 and C.6 data collection form 
b. Hydromodification Management Worksheet 
c. Infiltration/Harvesting infeasibility worksheet 
d. Special Project worksheet (only if Special Project status is desired) 
e. Project Applicant Checklist of Stormwater Requirements for 
Development Projects 
f. Numeric Sizing Criteria used for stormwater treatment (Calculations).  
g. Operations and Maintenance (O&M) plan 
If you have any questions regarding any of the Public Works comments, please contact Babak 
Kaderi, Contract PW Engineer, at (650) 522-2588 or via e-mail at bkaderi@cityofsanmateo.org.  
Public Works Trash/Recycling: 
The following items are required for formal planning application submittal:  
___________      1. 
Scale and size of solid waste/recycling/organics receptacles. 
___________      2. 
Approval letter from Recology, the City’s franchise solid waste service 
provider stating they can safely service the proposed service location and 
the proposed services are sufficient for the needs of the project. The 
City’s contact at Recology regarding all new development projects can be 
reached at 650-595-3900 or by email ymadera@recology.com 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Siliva 
Pa’uli, Solid Waste Recycling Programs Coordinator, at (650) 522-7297 or via e-mail at 
spauli@cityofsanmateo.org  
Police Department: 
The following items are required for formal planning application submittal: 
___________      1. 
Can the Architectural and Landscape sheets be coordinated to both show 
the proposed 36” tall fence at the corner of S B Street and 1st Avenue?

--- page 601 ---
Page 13 of 13 
 
___________      2. 
No changes needed for the Pre-Application.  At the formal Planning 
Application phase please consider additional art or green features along 
the Railroad – East Elevation to deter that face of the building from being 
targeted by graffiti. 
___________      3. 
No changes needed for the Pre-Application.  At the formal Planning 
Application phase please provide additional details for the proposed 
sidewalk seating noting that a standard Police Condition of Approval 
requires seating areas have intermediate arm rests or elevation changes 
at least every four feet to discourage an adult from laying down. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above or the City’s Building 
Security Code requirements, please contact Sergeant Brendan Bartholomew, Police 
Department at (650) 522-7522 x 5111 or via email at bbartholomew@cityofsanmateo.org  
Private Development Arborist: 
The following items are required for formal planning application submittal: 
___________      1. 
Informational comment: This project is subject to SMMC 27.71, 
Landscape for Planning Applications, and SMMC 13.40, Protected Trees 
Ordinance. 
___________      2. 
Informational comment: No on-site trees exist, so no trees over 6 inches 
in diameter need to be evaluated. No Protected Trees (as defined in 
SMMC 13.40) are to be preserved, so no Tree Protection Plan will be 
required. Only Street trees are to be removed for this project. 
___________      3. 
Informational comment: A Tree Evaluation Schedule and Required Tree Planting 
Form will be required for the formal application documenting the Street trees to 
be removed and planted. Trees to be planted on the subject property are not to 
be included on the Required Tree Planting Form. 
___________      4. 
Informational comment: The Street tree replacement species shall be 
Euccalyptus spathulata to be in compliance with the Street tree master plan, per 
the Parks and Recreation Department request.  Lagerstroemia 'Muskogee may 
be used if nursery availability issues. 
If you have any questions regarding any of these comments, please contact Andres Solis, 
Development Review Arborist, at asolismolina@cityofsanmateo.org  
Parks and Recreation: 
No comments for Study Session.

--- page 602 ---
1 
 
Harvest Properties  
1st & B Street (31 S B Street) 
   
  Summary of Pre-Application Community Meeting 
Date: 
April 11, 2022 
Time: 
7:00 pm - 8:00 pm  
Location: 
 Virtual Zoom Meeting 
Community Attendees: John Eberle, Ann Rarden, Sandy, Drew, Vic, Russ Ito 
 
Community Feedback 
 
Question/Comment: 
Appreciate the overall building design. 1) Why not set the building back a couple feet? 2) Why not add a 5th 
floor? 3) Why not a basement story with an atrium to let some light down below to the lower level? 
 
Harvest Response: 
1) The challenge with setting the building back a couple of feet is that it’s a very small site, so the proposed 
building is already compressed.  The other thing we heard from our retail consultant is that you want the 
project to be right up against the property line to create that engagement zone. If you set the building further 
back, it wouldn’t be consistent with the adjacent buildings (a lot of which are historical) and it would create 
this inconsistent datum.  2)  Currently, there is a height limit of 55’ so it would be very challenging to add a 
5th level without compromising the natural light and what would feel like a comfortable condition on each 
floor. We are also respecting our allowable FAR in order to make sure that this project is fully in compliance 
with all the zoning requirements.  3) It would be challenging to get enough natural light in the basement 
space to make it functional. Because we are trying to create this vibrant and connected retail zone. Creating 
this light well/atrium could be disruptive to the ground plane and retail frontage and counter some of the 
goals we are trying to accomplish in the project and what we heard from the community. With the General 
Plan Process going on right now, if the community were to want to increase the building height limit or FAR, 
that could be possible.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Would like to better understand impact of sidewalk widening to street parking and the sidewalk. What is the 
sidewalk going to look like on 1st Ave and what is being taken away or encumbered?  
 
Harvest Response: 
Street parking will remain. We want to find harmony between creating what we think is the ideal sidewalk 
condition which is around 16’ and maintaining the parking (8’) and having a Sharrow (shared lane for the 
bike and the car) which is what you see on most slow speed streets such as the B Street corridor. A block 
north is the Train Station and a block south is the pedestrian mall street closure, which creates  conflicts 
with a separate bike lane  traveling down B Street a high speed as proposed in the City Bike Masterplan, 
which we don’t think it’s in harmony with the retail  vision for the B Street corridor. We think relocating the 
bike lane to a different street or having a Sharrow can really solve this issue. Currently, this portion of the B 
Street uses parallel parking  spaces whereas further to the south , the diagonal space takes up more room, 
so we are able to reclaim some of that unnecessarily wide travel lane and give it back to the pedestrian. On 
1st Ave, the sidewalk will stay at it’s current width (12’) with the transit stop. The proposed condition is the 
current width and street trees with an addition of the bulb-out at the intersection.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Will Donut Delite store be coming back to the redeveloped property? 
 
Harvest Response: 
This conversation hasn’t commenced. We will try to keep them there as long as possible and see where the

--- page 603 ---
2 
 
project lands, we are totally open to having the conversation.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Will there be a copy of this Neighborhood Meeting Presentation available? 
 
Harvest/City Response: 
A copy of the presentation will be posted on the project webpage at:  
www.cityofsanmateo.org/whatshappening 
 
Question/Comment: 
Brainstorm on things to do with sidewalks or configuration to welcome pedestrians across.  
 
Harvest Response: 
One of the intents of our bulb-out was to create a very inviting corridor for the pedestrians. Need to maintain 
drive aisle for service/emergency vehicles. Add bulb-out to align with sidewalk across the street. The bulb-
out affords a number of benefits such as reducing the distance of crossing for pedestrians, creating 
additional zones for planting, offering opportunities for parklets, and allowing area for stormwater treatment.  
 
 
Question/Comment: 
What will separate 19 S. B building and the new proposed project? 
 
Harvest Response: 
The property boundary will be shared much like how the properties share it today instead of having a 
setback and window lines in case 19 S. B gets redeveloped in the future.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Consider relocating the bust stop on 1st Ave into the Cal Train station to consolidate public transit and clear 
the area on the south side? Consider doing some kind of minimalist artwork on the blank wall of 19 S. B at 
the property boundary prior to the redevelopment.  
 
Harvest Response: 
Great idea. Need to speak with City & Transit authorities. We are open to the idea if it’s important to the 
community.  
 
Question/Comment: 
Consider doing some kind of minimalist artwork on the blank wall of 19 S. B at the property boundary prior to 
the redevelopment.  
 
Harvest Response: 
Public Art is a great idea. We can also bring the materiality of the proposed project to that side to make it 
feel more cohesive with our overall building design.  
 
 
Question/Comment: 
Remove the wall at the alleyway between the property and the Cal Train station or indent it to create an 
entry way on the north side of the proposed project and make that corner inviting.  
 
Harvest Response: 
The continuity of main street and bringing it across 1st Ave is one of the first project drivers in our design 
process. We are currently proposing taking back that wall by 20' and setting back the building at that corner 
to create visibility and connection to/from the train station and draws people to the B Street retail corridor.  
 
Question/Comment:

--- page 604 ---
3 
 
Stairwell needs more windows or design to make it interesting ie. a sign or graphic that says “Welcome to 
San Mateo”. 
 
Harvest Response: 
The stairwell and exit/entry point serves as an important feature for fire safety but our design team will 
continue to refine that.  
 
Question/Comment: 
When you go down B Street, there is a lot of brick and masonry type of structures. Is it the intention to tie 
into the historical feel of Downtown San Mateo?  
 
Harvest Response: 
Yes, this is an important concept in our design. We have the 2-story brick volume which relates closely to 
the majority of the buildings along B Street both in terms of height and materiality. Same concept goes for 
the 3-story brick volume along 1st Ave matching the 3-story buildings across the street.   The brick base of 
the building ties in the materiality of the surrounding neighborhood with detailing and features reminiscent of 
some of the earlier architecture in the surrounding neighborhood. The curtain walls on level 4-5 fades into 
the sky, reduces visual impact while showcasing the beautiful natural material of mass timber. We also 
soften the building with lush landscape design both on the ground plane and terraces on every level of the 
building. Walking down the street in real life (as opposed to looking at a rendering), what you are really 
going to feel is the lower 2 – 3 story condition.  
 
Question/Comment: 
What would happen to the sidewalk pass this building heading north? 
 
Harvest Response: 
If we were to modify the public realm area per our proposal, then there will be continuity; if we were to carve 
back, then you will have this setback condition until you hit the neighbor at the property line which creates an 
awkward condition. 
 
Question to the Community: 
Do you prefer to have a) a shared bikeway which will allow 16’ sidewalk and maintained street parking or b) 
a separate bike lane and 9-10’ sidewalk with eliminated street parking? 
 
Community Response #1: 
Project team can maybe consider a hybrid condition between option a) and b). Perhaps building can setback 
for 2’ and the rest (4’-5’) can push into the street to achieve the proposed 16’ sidewalk condition. And have 
all future development/redevelopment hold the same datum to keep the consistency of the public realm. I 
wouldn’t mind the sidewalk being a little wider, it’s a good thing for sure.  
 
Community Response #2: 
I like your proposal of not setting back the building. If you have to set it back 2’ that will take away from the 
building but I’m wonder how the widening of the sidewalk will impact the neighbors. Will they have to follow 
the same width for sidewalk fronting their properties? 
 
Harvest Response: 
When you look at our plans and the existing conditions, one thing to note is that the adjacent neighbor to the 
north its right up against the property line as well. The widening of the sidewalk is proposed since we have a 
couple of projects and properties that we own on B Street, so our goal is to curate an energized and 
successfully retail experience not only for this block but down the whole B Street corridor. A lot of the 
buildings along B Street are historic and at the property line, so it’s important to keep this consistent datum 
and respect the historical context. What is easier to modify is reformatting the street condition by having a 
shared bike lane. 16’ wide sidewalk seemed to be the sweet spot when we look around the country for 
successful retail/public realm precedence, but we want to make this works for the whole neighborhood.

--- page 605 ---
1ST & B - Neighborhood Meeting                                                            
April11, 2022
1 ST& B - 31 S B STREET
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO
HARVEST PROPERTIES

--- page 606 ---
Meeting Agenda
PRESENTATION (20 MIN)

Introductions 

What We Have Heard to Date

Project Overview

Public Realm Design 

Zoning Clarification/ Cleanup 

Next Steps 
COMMUNITY INPUT  (30 MIN)
MEETING CONLUSION (10 MIN)

--- page 607 ---
About Harvest Properties
LOCALLY-BASED & COMMUNITY 
FOCUSED REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER
• Based in Oakland
• Founded in 2003
• Decades of experience owning and 
operating Bay Area real estate with a 
thoughtful and proactive approach to 
supporting the local community
• Recently entitled 290 entry level 
homes, with 10% dedicated to low-
income buyers, across 15 acres in San 
Mateo, replacing 225,000 sf of non-
transit served office space
• Members of our team, including at the 
Partner level, are residents of San Mateo 
and are passionate about our 
commitment to improving the 
Downtown for all community members
• Active in the San Mateo market since 2007
• Harvest and their Partners have 
their headquarters based in San 
Mateo and have owned 
apartment buildings on the 
Peninsula since the 1960s
• For over 50 years, RMW has created 
inspired experiences through the power 
of design
• Deliver award-winning work places in 
high tech, science, healthcare, industrial 
academic, and civic sectors
• Value and share a deep commitment to 
design integrity, sustainability, and 
human well-being
• Committed to landscape architecture, 
planning, art, and urban design
• Named 2019-2020 Landscape & Urban 
Design Firm of the Year by MasterPrize
• Embrace stewardship of the natural 
world, advance bold ideas, champion 
vanguard concepts, and create 
memorable experiences of a timeless 
craft

--- page 608 ---
What We Have Heard

Implement hyper-focused retail strategy & energized pedestrian experience 

Will either pay a linkage fee of $950K or build off site at a purpose-built 
affordable project with amenities for the residents

Infill within existing transit-served, amenity-rich locations 

Implement Best-in-Class TDM Plan & traffic calming measures

Mitigate disruption during construction process

Design beautiful projects that enhance the existing neighborhood

Work closely with the City to integrate Bike Lane safety measures

Utilization of architectural features that serve to break down the mass of   
the buildings to align with the scale of the neighborhood buildings
~7 M Impact Fees and ~12M of additional real estate tax over the next 30 
years to support local City infrastructure and programs 
How did we solve it:
What did we hear:
Please let us know what we’ve missed here and what we can do better!

Create an Active Retail Environment 

Provide Affordable Housing 

Concentrate Jobs around Transit 

Mitigate Traffic Concern

Limit Noise Pollution

Maintain the Fabric of the Neighborhoods 

Ensure Bicycle safety

Height and Density

City Infrastructure and the general fund 
(Support schools)

--- page 609 ---
Project Overview  
Post + Beam
•
86,161 sf of Commercial 
development 
1st & B
•
41,799 sf mixed-use 
development
•
36,365 sf office
•
5,434 sf retail
Bespoke
•
Mixed-use Development 
including stand-alone 
affordable housing
Residential:
•
60 units of stand-alone 
affordable housing
•
~5,000 sf dedicated to Self-
Help for the Elderly
Commercial:
•
155,624 sf mixed-use building
•
140,335 sf of office
•
7,970 sf of retail
•
3,233 sf of flex space
B St. Pedestrian Mall
•
Permanent closure recently 
approved

--- page 610 ---
Shared Vison with the City’s Design Guidelines        
and Community Feedback
Activate Downtown San Mateo
Respect B Street Corridor Vision
Provide Community-Focused Retail
Create an Energized Pedestrian 
Experience and Vibrant Public Realm
Build Affordable Housing
Focus on Transit-served Core Urban 
Office
Be a Conscientious Neighbor
Deliver Timeless Architecture
Implement Environmentally-Conscious 
Design Strategies

--- page 611 ---
1st & B – Vision 
Site History and Inspiration:
•
Serving the community circa 1897 – the earliest uses of the site 
were a grocery and ‘crocky’ adjacent to a “Fancy Goods and 
Nations” store, a butcher and a baker
•
The project site has played an important role in the community for 
over 120 years. The proposed development will build on and 
celebrate the history and the character of the site with a unique 
and innovative design
Design Attributes:
•
The prominent location of Donut Delite in front of the Caltrain 
depot sets the tone for the entire Downtown and presents a 
unique opportunity for us to work with the City to extend Main 
Street to the alleyway between the building and Caltrain, creating 
a sense of place, purpose and arrival
•
Deliver San Mateo’s first mass timber building, architecturally 
significant and cutting edge in long-term sustainability and 
functionality
•
Hand curate the retail programming around locally-focused, 
Northern California themed offerings that are missing in DTSM’s 
retail fabric today, such as:
•
Full-service, “breakfast to drinks” California farm-to-table 
restaurant
•
Specialty grocer to include deli, butcher, cheese monger, 
wine and beer purveyor, coffee, and bakery w/ onsite 
offerings & seating
•
Artisanal shops such as a modern crockery
•
What other retail uses do you see missing in Downtown 
San Mateo and would be a good fit ?
Full-Service Restaurant and Bar
Wine and Beer Garden
Local Coffee
Specialty Grocer and Deli
Downtown San Mateo’s Pedestrian Connection

--- page 612 ---
S. B Street Vision – Enhanced Public Realm
Widening the sidewalk from the current 10’ to 16’ will create vibrant and energized public realm experiences as 
illustrated below vs. the existing conditions of 10’ sidewalk or carving back into the parcel. The proposed 
enhancement along S. B Street are informed by the pedestrian master plan and design guidelines of the City of San 
Mateo.

--- page 613 ---
1st & B – Enhanced Public Realm
Burlingame Ave Curb Extension, Burlingame
(15’ sidewalk)
Benefits of an Enhanced Public Realm
•
Work with the City to activate the Caltrain edge and curate an 
exciting experience for people coming off Caltrain
•
Advocate and support city design guidelines meant to revitalize 
and enhance the pedestrian experience. These include: widening 
sidewalks, creating curb extensions and parklets which allow for 
enhanced landscape and stormwater planting areas
•
Added public plaza, public seating and gathering areas to enhance 
vibrancy at the ground plane
•
Permanent planters seamlessly integrated into the building 
architecture and upgraded hardscape
Current site condition – looking down S B St 
towards Baldwin Ave (9’ sidewalk)
Proposed site condition – 16’ sidewalk with curb 
extension and parklet 
Rendering

--- page 614 ---
THE EXTRA 3-5'OF THE
WIDER SIDEWALK PROVIDES
THEOUTDOOR SEATING
AND PROGRAMING THAT
ARE CURRENTLY MISSED
OPPORTUNITIES ON B STREET

STREET SECTION COMPARISON

38’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.

16.0

BURLINGAME AVE

1) NARROW SIDEWALK AND
BUILDING SETBACK NEGATIVELY
__ AFFECTSTHE VIBRANCY OFTHE
_ PUBLIC REALM EXPERIENCE AND
_ RETAILSUCCESS

50’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.



--- page 615 ---
S. B Steet Bike Masterplan vs. Project Proposal

Sag

16 8 11 ah] 8 16

sidewalk. parking trvellanes & bike blvd. parking sidewalk

PROPOSED WIDENED SIDEWALK W/BIKE BLVD

[}-3—+5-3{- 8} to} 10} 8 3-5-9
sidewalk bikelane parking travel lanes: parking bikelane sidewalk

PROPOSED PER BIKE MASTER PLAN


--- page 616 ---
1st & B – Project Overview
31-57 S. B Street – San Mateo, CA
Construction:
Mass timber or concrete
Lot Size:
16,413 SF
Size:
41,799 SF - Total I 2.55 FAR
36,365 SF - Office | 5,434 SF - Retail
Zoning District:
Commercial Business District
Open Space/ 
Landscaping:
3,247 SF – Total
403 SF Plaza, 2,844 SF Terrace,
Sidewalk Width:
16’ (currently 9-10’ on B Street)
Parking:
No parking, providing in lieu of payment
Height:
Total Height - 55’ I 4 stories
Impact Fees:
~$7M and 2 off-site affordable housing units
Real Estate Tax:
~$12M (450% increase to current tax basis) over 30 yrs

--- page 617 ---
1st & B – Enhanced Public Realm
Sidewalk Seating Throughout
Full-Service Restaurant, Open Air to Corner
Upgraded Streetscape along 1st
Corner plaza with outdoor seating
Parklets on along the street

--- page 618 ---
1st & B – Existing Building vs. Proposed 
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 1st Ave

--- page 619 ---
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 1°t Ave



--- page 620 ---
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 15t Ave



--- page 621 ---
4 ? 1 ts ke SY £

B Street at Curb Extension and Parklet



--- page 622 ---
. Ya
i
a
ee
i
a
i

ial

B Street Looking South



--- page 623 ---
Sustainability and Wellness Initiatives 
How can we develop a healthy workplace?
Our goal is to design and deliver high-quality, sustainable buildings that enhance occupant 
wellbeing and minimize impacts to carbon emissions and climate change.
Sustainability Goals
•
Significant Reduction in Carbon Emissions 
through use of Mass Timber
•
Carbon Neutral Design 
•
LEED Zero and / or LEED GOLD
•
WELL-Ready Certification
•
Drought-resistant landscaping
Wellness Features
•
Ample Natural light
•
Connection to Nature
•
Use of Natural Materials
•
Outdoor work and lounge areas
Health-Focused Design
•
Touchless / Automated Door Operators
•
Anti-microbial finishes on high-touch surfaces
•
Touchless Elevators
•
Enhanced Indoor Air Quality

--- page 624 ---
Reduces carbon emissions : Comparing a hybrid, mid-rise, cross-laminated 
timber (CLT) commercial building to a reinforced concrete building with 
similar functional characteristics, the CLT building represented a “26.5% 
reduction in global warming potential.
For a 52,000 sf, 6-story mass timber commercial building, the reduced 
carbon emission is equivalent to: 
325 cars off the road for a year
Energy to operate a home for 145 years
The volume of wood used takes U.S. and Canadian forests 2 minutes to 
regenerate 
Roughly 11%  of global greenhouse gas emissions come from building 
materials and construction. That’s what mass timber aims to reduce. The 
full lifecycle impact of mass timber on carbon emissions includes 3 
carbon effects
Supply chain: carbon-neutral wood supply 
Carbon embedding: 1 cubic meter of CLT wood sequesters 
roughly one tonne (1.1 US tons) of CO2 for 50 to hundreds of 
years
Substituting mass timber for concrete and steel: 2 tons of 
CO2 are emitted in the manufacture of a ton of steel. All 
those embodied emissions are avoided when CLT is 
substituted.
Performs very well in fire and meets code for fire safety 
Allows buildings to be constructed faster, with less waste
The performance of mass timber in earthquakes has been much tested and 
proven remarkably good 
The Advantages of Mass Timber (CLT)

--- page 625 ---
Property Zoning Clarification/ Cleanup 
Downtown Area Plan-figure 2
Existing Zoning Map
•
The 1st & B Property is located in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area.  
•
Within the Downtown Area Plan, the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning 
designation were intended to be limited in the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area 
and not in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area where the 1st & B property is 
located. 
•
The Downtown Area Plan envisions this area to “continue to support the retail 
core shopping area [i.e., not neighborhood commercial]. . . This will require a 
good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality . . .”  
The Plan includes the policy to “encourage the establishment of offices with the 
Downtown Retail Core and commercially designated areas” (Policy II.8.)  This 
intent matches with the General Plan’s Building Intensity Zone.
•
The intent of the Downtown Area Plan appears to be to provide the 1st & B 
property the same development rights as other properties located immediately to 
its south and west that are in the same Sub-Area and have the same General Plan, 
Downtown Area Plan, and density designations.  
•
Thus, it appears that the current neighborhood commercial zoning designation on 
the property is contrary to the intent of the Downtown Area Plan and may have 
been the result of an inadvertent error or a delay in rezoning the property to be 
consistent with the Downtown Area Plan.

--- page 626 ---
Affordable Housing Approach
Office to Housing formula:
o Either pay a commercial linkage fee or build 2 housing 
units at 1 st & B (31 South B Street)
Alternative Option :
o Per Municipal Code Section 23.61.050, as an 
alternative to payment of affordable housing 
commercial linkage fee, developers may propose the 
construction of affordable units off-site
o We are continuing this discussion with the City to 
discuss a potential alternative of a receiver site 
The benefit of building affordable units off site at a stand-alone 
residential project vs. on site in a commercial building is the ability 
to include amenities designed specifically with the needs and 
convenience of the residents in mind such as, 
o
A landscape area with seating
o
A tot lot with sculptural play equipment
o
Laundry room
o
Youth room for after-school educational, social and wellness 
program
o
Shared flexible spaces for recreation with Self-Help for the 
Elderly
o
Welcoming entrance and lobby area for privacy and comfort
Sculptural play area with seating area

--- page 627 ---
DONUT 
DELITE
IMPACT 
FEES
$7M*
SCHOOL AND 
ART FUNDING
$250K*
TRANSIT 
IMPROVEMENT
$196K*
INCREMENTAL
REAL ESTATE TAXES 
OVER 30 YEARS(?)
$12M*
ENHANCED
RETAIL, PEDESTRIAN AND 
PUBLIC REALM 
EXPERIENCE
FROM
MAJOR TRANSIT
AND HIGLY WALKABLE 
(REDUCING TRAFFIC)
0*
miles
* Approximately
Summary of Project Benefits – 1st & B  
LINKAGE FEE/OFF SITE 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
$950k*
PROVIDES
EXPANDED RETAIL 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE 
COMMUNITY

--- page 628 ---
Next Steps
Thank you for your participation!
Integrate input received tonight into plans 
and design
We welcome you to patriciate in the 
Planning Commission Study Session on May. 
10th, 2020
Throughout the planning process, community 
members can continue to provide input by 
sending their comments to Julia Klein at the 
City Planning Department or Preston 
O’Connell from the Applicant team. 
Continue discussions with you all and other 
neighbors and community organizations
Continue to participate in the City of San 
Mateo General Plan updates
Feel free to reach out to us any time!         
Preston O’Connell, Harvest Properties
▸poconnell@harvestproperties.com
▸510.594.2050
Julia Klein 
▸jklein@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 629 ---
Questions to consider:
Do you prefer to have 
a)
a shared bikeway which 
will allow 16’ sidewalk 
and maintained street 
parking like this, or
b)
A sperate bike lane and 
9-10’ sidewalk with 
eliminated street parking 
like this?
Public Comment

--- page 630 ---
From: 
To: 
Cc: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Preston onconn12I! 
!watanuki6\Ci'101T1a!!.corn
Julia Klein; (Jnire '1/'Jr:na; Ty!er Issarlore; Stone. Jon2than
RE: 31-57 S. B Street
Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:32:19 AM
Dear Ms. Watanuki, 
Thank you for reaching out regarding our "1st and B" project. Here is the link to the project's status page on the 
city's website 
The presentation to 
the community hearing is located here ''"'"'4'-'-'-'-"'--'-'-'-'--="-"-'="-'-" e-'--''-'-"'-'-'-'-'--'="-"-"'"'""!-'-'"-"-#'-'-'-'-'-='"""-'­
abcdef=g,,. I can also find out if there is a recorded video that is available or alternatively I would be 
happy to meet virtually or in person to walk you through our presentation. Look fonvard to be in touch and please 
do not hesitate to reach out with any additional information that maybe helpful. 
Best, 
Preston 
Preston O'Connell I Partner 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
direct j 510.466.1485 
main I 510.594.2050 
contact I vCard 
180 Grand A venue I Suite 1400 I Oakland, CA 94610 
HarvestProperties.com 
-----Original Message----­
From: 1 watanuki 
Sent: Tuesday, April 19, 2022 12:28 PM 
To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Cc: Laurie Watanuki 
; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 31-57 S. B Street 
Dear Mr. O'Connell, 
I was unable to attend your neighborhood meeting on April 11. 
Do you have a video link to the neighborhood meeting? 
I am a prope1ty owner in the area. 
Thanks. 
Laurie W atanuki 
Att 8 - Public Comments

--- page 631 ---
From: 
To: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Hi, Julia, 
Russ Ito 
Julia Klein 
Donut Delite Project support 
Tuesday, April 19, 2022 11:21:50 AM 
Good to connect with you on another project. I just wanted to drop you an early note of 
support for the Harvest/Prometheus Donut Delite Project, at I st and B Streets. I've had a 
chance to meet with their teams, and review the plans, and I think they've got a great concept 
that should fit in well in north downtown. 
Overall, I like the design a lot. It's contemporary without being cold, and the color palette and 
material selections do a nice job of paying tribute to the historical structures nearby without 
aping them. It should also make a very nice companion structure to the Prometheus project at 
303 Baldwin. 
Although I don't know what their intentions are for the penthouse level, I do particularly like 
their use of floor to ceiling glass walls that, with the extensive landscaping and greenery 
planned around it, give the structure a garden pavilion quality that makes the roof almost seem 
to float. It would be great if that area were accessible to the public. Combined with the 
proposed rooftop open space at 303 Baldwin, we could have two, very elegant public/private 
spaces to enjoy in the neighborhood. 
My only concern with this project, as I said at the community meeting, relates to the bus stop 
on the 1 st A venue side. The design calls for extensive improvements to the west and south 
perimeters, but if the bus stop on I st - and its companion on the other side of the street- isn't 
moved, the amenities being proposed will be rendered little more than a fancy bus stop, rather 
than a public promenade/gathering space. I urge the city to look at relocating those bus stops 
into the CalTrain station, where they would make more logical sense, and help make the 
station more of a public transit hub versus a single service center. 
Thanks for your time, and I'm looking forward to seeing how this project evolves, and to the 
additional, community improvements that are being discussed along B Street and elsewhere in 
downtown. 
Cheers! 
Russ 
Russell Ito 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
(650) 773-8624 (M)

--- page 632 ---
From: 
To: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Ann Rarden 
Juiia Klein 
forecast for needed retail space 
Thursday, April 14, 2022 1:24:38 PM 
Hi, Ms Klein--I attended the neighborhood meeting on Monday, April 11th, 
to learn some details of the pre-application planning for 31-57 S. B St. 
The presentation was well done, and community questions seemed to be 
answered satisfactorily, aside from the one about current retailers being 
able to be accommodated in the new building. 
I didn't ask my question that evening because I felt it was more 
appropriately addressed to city staff like you. What forecast has the city 
made about the need for retail space in the future? Given the number of 
retail spaces currently for lease on 3rd and 4th Avenues and on B. St 
itself, I'm not sure that retail space is our highest need. Having attended 
some housing meetings, it seems that housing that is affordable for 
families who like San Mateo and are currently renting but wish to purchase 
homes here should be our highest priority. These families are eager to 
continue living in our community I am dismayed when I walk by the 
construction on Baldwin between Ellsworth and S.B and see that site 
tauting luxury housing units for singles. Are we missing the mark with 
that construction? I understand that Havest Properties is reluctant to 
include two or three affordable units in their proposed building because 
they cannot offer the amenities that renters/owners would want, but there 
is a laundromat down the block and across the street. Could Harvest 
negotiate for designated parking places in the city's downtown garage 
across from the train station? 
I'd encourage your department and the planning commission to do some 
creative thinking about how to incorporate housing that is affordable for 
middle class families who will exit our city, much as they love the vibe, the 
schools, the parks, the neighbors, the commute, the rail/bus lines, if we 
don't tackle this problem. And please don't let developers off the hook so 
easily with the option of off-site affordable housing. I assume that's what 
the Build Group did for the Baldwin/Ellsworth/S. B building. 
Thank you in advance for your thoughtful response to this query. 
Ann Rarden 
>94401

--- page 633 ---
From: 
To: 
Cc: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Victor Hanna 
Preston O"Connell; Julia KiPin 
Tyler lssadore; Caire VJanP 
RE: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
Wednesday, April 6, 2022 1:12:58 PM 
Thank you Preston for the great detail. That is very helpful. 
Best of luck on the project. 
Regards, 
Vic 
Victor Hanna 
Chief Betty 
The BettyMills Company 
650-645-6260 Direct
From: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 9:30 AM 
To: Victor Hanna <victor@bettymills.com>; jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
Cc: Tyler lssadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com>; Claire Wang 
<cwang@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: RE: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
This email originated from an external account, use caution when responding, clicking on links, or 
opening an attachment. 
Victor, 
Thank you kindly for reaching out and it is nice to meet you via email. We have only submitted our 
"pre-application" for the project so we are very early on in the process. Typically, the entitlement 
process can take anywhere from 1-2 years where we have to go through several community 
hearings, planning commission study session, submit our major application and then planning 
commission/city council for final consideration. If approved, it will take another 12 months to get 
building permits. Its likely 3 years or more before construction would commence. Lastly, the city has 
strict guidelines on construction activities where the ownership needs to mitigate dust, work during 
set hours etc. Please let us know if you have any further questions and we would welcome.the 
opportunity to meet in person or over the phone/zoom. 
Best, 
Preston 
i Partner 
!nc.
t,.

--- page 634 ---
from: Victor Hanna ·W·X-YZ[.\]^_`a· 
Sent: Tuesday, April 5, 2022 5:01 PM 
To: 
Preston O'Connell ·-b=c--de=-fg"hi-j-'-k"lm"n 
Subject: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
Hello Julia, Preston - I just relocated our headquarters to an office space at 19 B street, which is 
adjacent to the B. Street development in pre-application. 
I am curious, in the best case scenario, when would ground break on the development? I would 
anticipate a lot of construction noise and would like to have some understanding when the earliest if 
approved, this may commence. 
Thank you. 
Victor Hanna 
Chief Betty 
The BettyMills Company 
650-645-6260 Direct

--- page 635 ---
From: 
To: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Attachments: 
437 San Mateo 12 
Julia Klein 
31-57 S. B St., Pre-Application
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 11:46:53 AM
irnaqcOO 1 .:mo
Got the notice today regarding the planned project to convert 31-57 South B Street into a 42,000 
square foot 4 story mixed commercial/office space. Will there be a parking area underground like 
other buildings similar to this in the area? If not where is the parking for this proposal coming from? 
Main street parking garage gets really full as it is so I was wondering what the parking situation is 
going to be. 
Thank you, 
Mohammed Taki 
General Manager 
San Mateo 12 #437 
320 East 2nd Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
Office #: (650) 558-0559 
Fax#: (650) 558-0737 
E-Mail:-'-"'-'-'="'"'-'-'""-'-'""'-'-'9==
NOW OPEN 
CENTURY 12 SAN MATEO

--- page 636 ---
From: 
To: 
Subject: 
Date: 
Hello Julie, 
Laurie Livingston 
Julia K!ein 
Pre-Application 31-57 S. B St 
Monday, April 4, 2022 7:50:56 PM 
I am a resident on Saint Matthews Ave. 
In my opinion, San Mateo does NOT need more office space, especially NOT in 
downtown. 
I think the above proposed project is NOT appropriate. 
What we do need is a reasonably priced supermarket for residents living by the 
north end of downtown since Trags is gone, and restaurants & other gathering 
places downtown that genuinely welcome residents of all ethnicities. 
Thank-you for reading this and for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Laurie Livingston 
San Mateo 94401

--- page 637 ---
Att 9 – Sample Findings 
 
 
Zoning Reclassification [General Plan] 
 
1. The proposed amendment is in conformance with the goals, policies, and objectives of the 
General Plan; and 
 
2. The proposed amendment would not be detrimental to the public interest, health, safety, 
convenience, or general welfare of the City. 
 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) [SMMC 27.08.030] 
 
1. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood; 
 
2. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City; 
 
3. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
 
4. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; and 
 
5. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) [SMMC 23.40.040 (a)(4)] 
 
The development will address all concerns regarding surface grading, structure foundations, drainage, 
subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal have been addressed.

--- page 638 ---
From: Keith Weber <keithmax2@gmail.com>  
Sent: Monday, May 9, 2022 3:21 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 31-57 B. St. Pre-Application (PA2021-082) 
I would like to respond to the following Question/Comment raised during the April 
11, 2022 pre-application community meeting.  Please include in the 5/10/22Planning 
Commission Study Session Packet: 
Question/Comment: When you go down B Street, there is a lot of brick and masonry type of structures. 
Is it the intention to tie into the historical feel of Downtown San Mateo?  
Harvest Response: Yes, this is an important concept in our design. We have the 2-story brick volume 
which relates closely to the majority of the buildings along B Street both in terms of height and 
materiality. Same concept goes for the 3-story brick volume along 1st Ave matching the 3-story buildings 
across the street. The brick base of the building ties in the materiality of the surrounding neighborhood 
with detailing and features reminiscent of some of the earlier architecture in the surrounding 
neighborhood. The curtain walls on level 4-5 fades into the sky, reduces visual impact while showcasing 
the beautiful natural material of mass timber. We also soften the building with lush landscape design 
both on the ground plane and terraces on every level of the building. Walking down the street in real life 
(as opposed to looking at a rendering), what you are really going to feel is the lower 2 – 3 story 
condition.  
My Response to Harvest:  I'm very glad to know that relating the proposed building 
to the Downtown Historic District is important to you and your architects.  Building a 
2-3 story brick volume that "matches" the buildings across the street is a good
start.  However, plunking a modern glass structure on top undercuts the entire
concept and creates a confusing mass rather than a cohesive design.  Instead of
designing two buildings, one on top of the other, I think a more successful approach
would be to design a single building of unified design, such as these recent buildings
in Redwood City (photos below).  Clearly contemporary office structures, these two
successful new buildings use a traditional architectural vocabulary while meeting
current client needs.
I look forward to a revised and more unified design that can be a successful addition 
to downtown San Mateo. 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber, 
San Mateo

--- page 639 ---
Activity Monitor (All Pre


--- page 640 ---
Planning Commission 
Study Session
31 – 57 S. B Street Pre-Application
(PA-2021-082)
(PA-2021-082)
May 10, 2022
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
1

--- page 641 ---
PROJECT SITE
• 1 parcel / 0.37 acres
• C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood  
Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use)
• Restaurant uses, former San Mateo Locks
• Surrounding Uses:
• B Street – Retail, restaurants, services at ground floor, 
offices and residential on upper levels. 
• First Avenue – Transit Station, public garages, police 
substation, restaurants, retail
2

--- page 642 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
• Zoning reclassification 
• Proposed change from C1-2/R5 to CBD)
• Would increase max. allowable F.A.R. from 2.0 to 3.0.
• Proposed Development
• 4-story, mixed-use commercial & office
• Proposed FAR ~ 2.54 
• Total Floor Area ~ 40,789 sq ft
• Retail ~ 5,424 sq ft
• Offices  ~ 35,365 sq ft
• Open Space (ground level) ~ 403 sq ft
• No on-site parking, loading from shared driveway
3

--- page 643 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
ØZoning Reclassification
ØProposed Development
oSite Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) for new building and site 
improvements
oSite Development Planning 
Application (SDPA) for tree removal
4
Applicable policies/codes include:
Ø General Plan 
Ø Downtown Area Plan
Ø Zoning Code
Ø Central Parking Improvement District 
(CPID)
Ø Downtown Retail Core Design 
Guidelines
Ø Bicycle Master Plan 
Ø Pedestrian Master Plan

--- page 644 ---
POTENTIAL CONFORMANCE ISSUES:
ØZoning Reclassification
ØDesign
ØParking, loading zone
ØChanges in the public right-of-way
5

--- page 645 ---
Zoning Reclassification

CITY OF ———_


--- page 646 ---
Zoning Reclassification - Findings
ØThe proposed amendment is in conformance with the 
goals, policies, and objectives of the General Plan; and 
ØThe proposed amendment would not be detrimental to 
the public interest, health, safety, convenience, or 
general welfare of the City.
7

--- page 647 ---
Zoning Reclassification

General Plan
Land Use Designations

HEE Neighboriood Commereia
C] Regional Community Commercial
Service Commercia

Downiown Retail Core
Downtown Retail Core Support
Executive Office

Manufacturing

Hitt

Single Family

| Low Density Mull-Farnily
| Medium Density Multi-Family
| High Density Mulli-Faeray
| | Parks! Open Space
| Public Facility
| Utilities:
| Major Institution! Spacial Facility
[Dy Traneit-Oriented Developmant
[| Transportation Garmdar

———— CITY OF SAN MATEO —————-



--- page 648 ---
Zoning Reclassification
9
Retail Core Subarea
Project Site

--- page 649 ---
Zoning Reclassification
ØDowntown Area Plan
Ø North B Street
Ø No Required Retail 
Frontage Zone or Ground 
level open space 
requirements
Ø Retail Core 
Ø Subject to Required 
Retail Frontage Zone & 
Ground floor open space 
requirements
10
PROJECT SITE

--- page 650 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
ØZoning Code
Ø FAR: 2.0 vs 3.0
Ø Setback/Building Line
Ø Ground level open space
Ø Building Line/Setback
Ø Required Retail Frontage
11

--- page 651 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
ØZoning Code
Ø Required Retail Frontage (cont.)
Ø View of Interiors
Ø Ground floor entries to other uses
Ø Second floor offices
Ø Archaeological 
Ø Historical Evaluation
Ø Tree Removal
Ø Note: more information needed to 
verify consistency with: parking, 
bicycle parking, loading, etc.
12

--- page 652 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS – Zoning Reclassification
ØDoes the Planning Commission have any 
comments regarding the zoning reclassification?
13

--- page 653 ---
Design: Building, Site Design & Right-of-Way

CITY OF ——_


--- page 654 ---
BUILDING DESIGN & SITE PLAN - Findings
Ø Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) (focused findings):
Ø Structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
neighborhood
Ø The development meets all applicable standards and conforms with the 
General Plan
Ø Site Development Planning Application for tree removal (findings):
Ø The development will address all concerns regarding surface grading, structure 
foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, erosion, landscaping and tree removal 
have been addressed. 
15

--- page 655 ---
Building Design

CITY OF



--- page 656 ---
Building Design



--- page 657 ---
Building Design

CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 658 ---
Building Design

BUTT-VOINT CURTAINWALL GLAZING
any

ie ili
DARK-FRAMED STOREFRONT:

tik

WOOD-CLAD STOREFRONT

ROOF CANOPY

fi

ROOF MECHANICAL SCREEN

Lf be kL
NO //4

PATINA

EXTERIOR BRICK: |
RRS Bl
) FS 6 Hine \itns GOnn Gnd
HY + f_. SS88 S88 BEES Bee
© BH . GGG0 |ite Gee Gece
man Bees Pees

TEXTURED WALL PANEL tty | ae See ll ii @ = i | | |

| "FINAL TEXTURE
may NOT YET SELECTED

CEMENT PLASTER:

GLASS GUARDRAIL:

o—

i i 7
ra]
- = -—l.

——— = - —

i i =,
i _ J

1
a, 7

EXPOSED WOOD

“TL
i ~ J
bP

+ —_- —_ __L—_ _ __ j __._. ___

HEE: A 7 AnSEs - Regt BPE (3)

———— CITY OF SAN MATEO —————-



--- page 659 ---
20
A. Relate height of new buildings to pattern of Downtown.
B. Building fronts should recognize traditional lot widths in Downtown. 
C. Achieve compatibility of diverse building styles by recognizing 
architectural elements common to most buildings.
D. Provide detailing that enriches the architectural character & provides 
three dimensional depth to façade. 
E. Entrances.
F. Use Windows to Define Floor Levels.
G. Awning/Canopies
H. Maintain visually interesting activity at the sidewalk edge.
I. Articulate the pedestrian area through the use of architectural and 
pedestrian improvements.
J. Private Plazas, outdoor restaurant seating & outdoor display of 
merchandise.
K. Alleyways/Midblock pedestrian areas.
Other Design Considerations: Blank Wall, Materials 
Design Guidelines “represent minimum criteria for acceptable development”.

--- page 660 ---
Dini Cthlectines: Dentin Ohicctives:
sre brn seared é Provide a versioal change Ux the creed fronting facade at 25 to $0 foot intervaly o# lens,

# Troneifaning building bripher with mif-eise
* Sipping ‘ Provide pedestrian emivier within mint sections af the fread,

ay Caneel dad

A portion of Third Avenue in San Mateo duatiiteag
Steciton! widthe and eniriccta.

Ietaaaing diageam of mew construction with upper floors
setback from adjicsat dracturs,

—— CITY OF


--- page 661 ---
Design Obie Dien Obici

Prorde acechlectural detailing that;
New construction should incorporate dominant architectural elements common to the nearby buildings. © 1 vlenaly interesting oo ha padeirien:
* Creates a shite dimemsiosal appearance io he Arcade;
© [i caveat! with che level af dened on L
Characteristics ofthese OE
* Strong top and mid comice
* Double hung windows in pairs
* Tile kick plate Thulin with a igh bowel od
i Ali Seeing Bal pocvtdens ties

Common Arch. elements dimensional apepedenince tc the

— incloded in the design on a storefront ineluing
new building in this : eo weal dora;
location: ® Ormamentation;

VP] EA
a A Roof comice

= — Similar window patiom
ab

,— Mid-comice or ign band

ferret rers
es |

Ba Ea

A Fs a4
Lal HEH H

: ‘Thea taller babii lacs detsilingy and vioua istkerent
‘The flash fitting windows, nal] entry and almowt flush
mean create 6 fil ippeiraace nol comeleent with
Gown San Milos. The emall pevpurtions of them
architectural featores we olio cul-of acale with the trol
facade and aocebtuiats the nian of the buibling.

Pai bile td 7 2 eS Tee
ae ee si =

———— CITY OF SAN MATEO —————-



--- page 662 ---
Recess entrances to allow window shopping and pedestrian sanding room. Maintain the distinction between upper and lower oor levels by:
Onlinen tr * Develaping the growed floor ax primarily windows and doors;
ae recessed * On the ground floor use large panes of clear glass;
- ' On upper floors use windows that identify the number of floor levels;

Dominast wat of glam op dhe ground
floor distinguishes if from the upper
fer

The continuous vertical] plas
Ue Boll differentiate floor level.

he
—-—-——— 7 -—-—
—# = we ncaee,
Ld EE Be Lt
EGE G8 Be Be ,
EERE WEEE EEE Be —_- he
-_
ane one BGs ine G08 Gee |S
re " IEE BEE SE Bl Fi | EEREE WEEE EEE Be cas
;

1) LL ltl TET TTL . ut 33") — %
Thee) nn: Sa
iei( R00 ; }

1 =

ETT BLATT ay aT ME STEELE a
14 °. i

——— CITY OF



--- page 663 ---
Design Objectives

© Decide peaicainian onieniia! archliectaral baprovemenis on building rants 10 further define
fhe didioedk area os a comylonable and ieresiag pedestrian plc.

# Design for pedestrians Ln the public sight-way by providing improvements mach as street
ined, special sidewall parbay, and sddewwlt farnltvee, de accordance with Oly standard,

Design Objective:
Provide visual interest to all facades fromiing on a sirect

fiuilding: elements that improve the aidewallt inca

A blank fouls with tly minimal
wets oor hie posed esirian!

Inierei ii iocremme

with ditional landscaping,
dlaplay of regular window,
ate! baw and comice trim.

_ ek as we
ret

—— CITY OF

Destin Objects:

© Eesounage larger divelopewentr dp include private plesws adlacent to the oidewall jor outdoor
renanrany seurlag dal relation,

© Consider posvibilies for merchandise llmplay in uke derign af recessed exrywiyi while maindclndng
aceenibllyy repeteceeaty,

@ Conplier livarloag within she pale riphi-ay-way jor ounoor mauraat amating endl
ir eval rhea pl lapoenen tg a
a
pra, new bata) and dhe seating area. animes

Fstaunan sealing proved
bbabind the sidewall on prnenie
property und on the akewalk



--- page 664 ---
Destzn Oblectier:
Pedestrian Avo shall:

Adleywapy/Midtiel

© Poonlde architecture father and daunting lang alley! av other Malle portlear af
ibatliings shar are iniereating to the pudlesirian,;

+ Aschitectsrally acknowledge

where posible;

1 SB rsh and sicchowical equipment from

Hew with solid, durable enclosures:

. areal fei Uo preg clog Wig al cling es tas asad

oe re

BUTT JOINT GURTAINWVALL GLAZING

‘on

DAAK-FRAMED STOREFRONT.

tk

WOO0-CLAD STOREFAONT

a
ROOF MECHANICAL SCREEN

EXTERIOR BRIE
TEXTURED WALL PANEL

WOT FET SELECTED
CEMENT PLASTER

© Pr

GLASS GUADRAL

ee —

EXPOSED WOOD



--- page 665 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS – Building Design
Ø Would the Planning Commission recommend improving the proposed project design to address the 
following:
o Relate height of new buildings to pattern of Downtown;
o Design building fronts that recognize the traditional lot widths in Downtown;
o Incorporate key architectural elements common to not buildings in Downtown;
o Incorporate architectural detailing that is in scale with human proportions, adds interest and create three 
dimensional appearance to the building face;
o Incorporate recessed entrances to provide for window shopping, pedestrian standing room and protection 
from wind and rain;
o Incorporate different window sizes with larger windows at the ground floor to enhance the ground floor 
commercial uses and smaller windows on upper levels to distinguish it as a different use;
o Utilize awnings/canopies to add depth to ground floor storefronts and provide location for future signage; 
and
o Incorporate design elements that provide for alley that is architecturally attractive, safe and inviting for 
pedestrians, and accommodates the necessary back of house services and loading?
Ø Does the Planning Commission have other design or site comments? 
26

--- page 666 ---
Site Plan & Public Right-of-Way

hill ha:

Led

———— CITY OF SAN MATEO —————-



--- page 667 ---
-of-Way

ight

Site Plan & Public R

ee eel Et aa «
SS Sa Se = =



--- page 668 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW 
Pedestrian Master Plan 
• Master Plan: 11 – 15 ft. 
sidewalk envisioned 
• Proposed:
• B St sidewalk: ~16 ft - 22 ft
• First Ave sidewalk: ~8 ft – 24 ft
• Expand into parking, travel 
lane
29

--- page 669 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW 
Bicycle Master Plan
•
Future bicycle lane along First 
Ave.
•
City project
•
Along B St – future CC ss on 
future of B St
•
Potential conflict with sidewalk 
expansion into the right-of-way
30
Project Site

--- page 670 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS – Site Plan & Right-of-Way
Ø Should the proposed sidewalk width be 11’ to 15’ to align with the Pedestrian Master 
Plan, or should a wider sidewalk be considered?
Ø If wider sidewalks are desired, should that additional width be created in the public 
ROW, on private property or combination of both?
31

--- page 671 ---
ØNeighborhood Meeting held on April 11, 2022 (6 attendees) - concerns raised:
o Building design, height and size, 
o Materials  
o Alley as an extension of Main Street.
o Right of way changes
ØPublic Comments received:
o Design & materials
o Public right-of-way changes
o Proposed uses
o Parking
o Construction noise 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING & PUBLIC COMMENTS
32

--- page 672 ---
Ø Rezoning Reclassification:  Does the Planning Commission have any recommendations regarding the zoning reclassification?
Ø Building Design & Site Plan:  
o Would the Planning Commission recommend improving the proposed project design to address the following:
•
Relate height of new buildings to pattern of Downtown;
•
Design building fronts that recognize the traditional lot widths in Downtown;
•
Incorporate key architectural elements common to not buildings in Downtown;
•
Incorporate architectural detailing that is in scale with human proportions, adds interest and create three dimensional 
appearance to the building face;
•
Incorporate recessed entrances to provide for window shopping, pedestrian standing room and protection from wind 
and rain;
•
Incorporate different window sizes with larger windows at the ground floor to enhance the ground floor commercial 
uses and smaller windows on upper levels to distinguish it as a different use;
•
Utilize awnings/canopies to add depth to ground floor storefronts and provide location for future signage; and
•
Incorporate design elements that provide for alley that is architecturally attractive, safe and inviting for pedestrians, 
and accommodates the necessary back of house services and loading?
o Does the Planning Commission have other design or site comments? 
Ø Public Right-of-Way: 
o Should the proposed sidewalk width be 11’ to 15’ to align with the Pedestrian Master Plan, or should a wider sidewalk be 
considered?
o If wider sidewalks are desired, should that additional width be created in the public ROW, on private property or 
combination of both?
RECAP: Questions to Consider
33

--- page 673 ---
Thank You!
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7216
34

--- page 674 ---
1ST & B – Planning Commission Study Session                                                            
May 10, 2022
1 ST& B - 31 S B STREET
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO
HARVEST PROPERTIES

--- page 675 ---
Table of Contents
PRESENTATION

Introductions 

What We Have Heard to Date

Public Realm Design 

Project Overview

Zoning Clarification/ Cleanup

--- page 676 ---
About Harvest Properties
LOCALLY-BASED & COMMUNITY 
FOCUSED REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER
• Based in Oakland
• Founded in 2003
• Decades of experience owning and 
operating Bay Area real estate with a 
thoughtful and proactive approach to 
supporting the local community
• Recently entitled 290 entry level 
homes, with 10% dedicated to low-
income buyers, across 15 acres in San 
Mateo, replacing 225,000 sf of non-
transit served office space
• Members of our team, including at the 
Partner level, are residents of San Mateo 
and are passionate about our 
commitment to improving the 
Downtown for all community members
• Active in the San Mateo market since 2007
• Harvest’s Partner is 
headquartered in San Mateo and 
has owned apartment buildings 
on the Peninsula since the 1960s
• For over 50 years, RMW has created 
inspired experiences through the power 
of design
• Deliver award-winning work places in 
high tech, science, healthcare, industrial 
academic, and civic sectors
• Value and share a deep commitment to 
design integrity, sustainability, and 
human well-being
• Committed to landscape architecture, 
planning, art, and urban design
• Named 2019-2020 Landscape & Urban 
Design Firm of the Year by MasterPrize
• Embrace stewardship of the natural 
world, advance bold ideas, champion 
vanguard concepts, and create 
memorable experiences of a timeless 
craft

--- page 677 ---
What We Have Heard

Implement hyper-focused retail strategy & energized pedestrian experience 

Will either pay a linkage fee of $950K or build off site at a purpose-built 
affordable project with amenities for the residents

Infill within existing transit-served, amenity-rich locations 

Implement Best-in-Class TDM Plan & traffic calming measures

Mitigate disruption during construction process

Design beautiful projects that enhance the existing neighborhood

Work closely with the City to integrate Bike Lane safety measures

Utilization of architectural features that serve to break down the mass of   
the buildings to align with the scale of the neighborhood buildings
~7 M Impact Fees and ~12M of additional real estate tax over the next 30 
years to support local City infrastructure and programs 
How did we solve it:
What did we hear:
Please let us know what we’ve missed here and what we can do better!

Create an Active Retail Environment 

Provide Affordable Housing 

Concentrate Jobs around Transit 

Mitigate Traffic Concern

Limit Noise Pollution

Maintain the Fabric of the Neighborhoods 

Ensure Bicycle safety

Height and Density

City Infrastructure and the general fund 
(Support schools)

--- page 678 ---
Project Overview  
Post + Beam
•
86,161 sf of commercial 
development 
1st & B
•
41,799 sf mixed-use 
development
•
36,365 sf commercial
•
5,434 sf retail
Bespoke
•
Mixed-use Development 
including stand-alone 
affordable housing
Residential:
•
60 units of stand-alone 
affordable housing
•
~5,000 sf dedicated to Self-
Help for the Elderly
Commercial:
•
155,624 sf mixed-use building
•
140,335 sf of commercial
•
7,970 sf of retail
•
3,233 sf of flex space
B St. Pedestrian Mall
•
Permanent closure recently 
approved

--- page 679 ---
Shared Vison with the City’s Design Guidelines        
and Community Feedback
Activate Downtown San Mateo
Respect B Street Corridor Vision
Provide Community-Focused Retail
Create an Energized Pedestrian 
Experience and Vibrant Public Realm
Build Affordable Housing
Focus on Transit-served Core Urban 
Office
Be a Conscientious Neighbor
Deliver Timeless Architecture
Implement Environmentally-Conscious 
Design Strategies

--- page 680 ---
1st & B – Vision 
Site History and Inspiration:
•
Serving the community circa 1897 – the earliest uses of the site 
were a grocery and ‘crocky’ adjacent to a “Fancy Goods and 
Nations” store, a butcher and a baker
•
The project site has played an important role in the community for 
over 120 years. The proposed development will build on and 
celebrate the history and the character of the site with a unique 
and innovative design
Design Attributes:
•
The prominent location of Donut Delite in front of the Caltrain 
depot sets the tone for the entire Downtown and presents a 
unique opportunity for us to work with the City to extend Main 
Street to the alleyway between the building and Caltrain, creating 
a sense of place, purpose and arrival
•
Deliver San Mateo’s first mass timber building, architecturally 
significant and cutting edge in long-term sustainability and 
functionality
•
Hand curate the retail programming around locally-focused, 
Northern California themed offerings that are missing in DTSM’s 
retail fabric today, such as:
•
Full-service, “breakfast to drinks” California farm-to-table 
restaurant
•
Specialty grocer to include deli, butcher, cheese monger, 
wine and beer purveyor, coffee, and bakery w/ onsite 
offerings & seating
•
Artisanal shops such as a modern crockery
•
What other retail uses do you see missing in Downtown 
San Mateo and would be a good fit ?
Full-Service Restaurant and Bar
Wine and Beer Garden
Local Coffee
Specialty Grocer and Deli
Downtown San Mateo’s Pedestrian Connection

--- page 681 ---
S. B Street Vision – Enhanced Public Realm
Widening the sidewalk from the current 10’ to 16’ will create vibrant and energized public realm experiences as 
illustrated below vs. the existing conditions of 10’ sidewalk or carving back into the parcel. The proposed 
enhancement along S. B Street are informed by the pedestrian master plan and design guidelines of the City of San 
Mateo.

--- page 682 ---
1st & B – Enhanced Public Realm
Burlingame Ave Curb Extension, Burlingame
(15’ sidewalk)
Benefits of an Enhanced Public Realm
•
Work with the City to activate the Caltrain edge and curate an 
exciting experience for people coming off Caltrain
•
Advocate and support city design guidelines meant to revitalize 
and enhance the pedestrian experience. These include: widening 
sidewalks, creating curb extensions and parklets which allow for 
enhanced landscape and stormwater planting areas
•
Added public plaza, public seating and gathering areas to enhance 
vibrancy at the ground plane
•
Permanent planters seamlessly integrated into the building 
architecture and upgraded hardscape
Current site condition – looking down S B St 
towards Baldwin Ave (9’ sidewalk)
Proposed site condition – 16’ sidewalk with curb 
extension and parklet 
Rendering

--- page 683 ---
S. B Street vs. Burlingame Ave

THE EXTRA 3-5'OF THE

WIDER SIDEWALK PROVIDES
THEOQUTDOOR SEATING
AND PROGRAMING THAT
ARE CURRENTLY MISSED
OPPORTUNITIES ON B STREET

STREET SECTION COMPARISON

38’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.

16.0

BURLINGAME AVE

~ NARROW SIDEWALK AND
BUILDING SETBACK NEGATIVELY
__ AFFECTSTHEVIBRANCY OFTHE
_ PUBLIC REALM EXPERIENCE AND
RETAILSUCCESS

50’ curb-to-curb
70’ R.O.W.

damm, —A TS

12.0 J 18.0 y 120 J | 4 | 6



--- page 684 ---
S. B Steet Bike Masterplan vs. Project Proposal

yy
/
o IT)

|
&
> | , —
fi i>) i (=F
( @e
¥ t }
| 16 8 | 11 i 8 16 |
sidewalk. parking travellanes & bike blvd. parking sidewalk

PROPOSED WIDENED SIDEWALK W/BIKE BLVD

[}-3—+5-3{- 8} to} 10} 8 3-5-9
sidewalk bikelane parking travel lanes: parking bikelane sidewalk

PROPOSED PER BIKE MASTER PLAN


--- page 685 ---
1st & B – Project Overview
31-57 S. B Street – San Mateo, CA
Construction:
Mass timber or concrete
Lot Size:
16,413 SF
Size:
41,799 SF - Total I 2.55 FAR
36,365 SF - Office | 5,434 SF - Retail
Zoning District:
Commercial Business District
Open Space/ 
Landscaping:
3,247 SF – Total
403 SF Plaza, 2,844 SF Terrace,
Sidewalk Width:
16’ (currently 9-10’ on B Street)
Parking:
No parking, providing in lieu of payment
Height:
Total Height - 55’ I 4 stories
Impact Fees:
~$7M and 2 off-site affordable housing units
Real Estate Tax:
~$12M (450% increase to current tax basis) over 30 yrs

--- page 686 ---
1st & B – Enhanced Public Realm
Sidewalk Seating Throughout
Full-Service Restaurant, Open Air to Corner
Upgraded Streetscape along 1st
Corner plaza with outdoor seating
Parklets on along the street

--- page 687 ---
1st & B – Existing Building vs. Proposed 
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 1st Ave

--- page 688 ---
Neighborhood Context

MAX HEIGHT: 55"

BUILDING HEIGHT

BUILDING AVERAGE HEIGHT: 30'

RETAIL AVERAGE HEIGHT: 12

TRANSIT CNTR DONUTE DELITE SITE 1ST STREET 2ND STREET



--- page 689 ---
Relation to the Established Neighborhood

Small Infill and Transition Retail Core Set Back
Plaza Facade



--- page 690 ---
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 1°t Ave



--- page 691 ---
Southwest Corner of S B Street and 15t Ave



--- page 692 ---
B Street at Curb Extension and Parklet



--- page 693 ---
B Street Looking S South



--- page 694 ---
Sustainability and Wellness Initiatives 
How can we develop a healthy workplace?
Our goal is to design and deliver high-quality, sustainable buildings that enhance occupant 
wellbeing and minimize impacts to carbon emissions and climate change.
Sustainability Goals
•
Significant Reduction in Carbon Emissions 
through use of Mass Timber
•
Carbon Neutral Design 
•
LEED Zero and / or LEED GOLD
•
WELL-Ready Certification
•
Drought-resistant landscaping
Wellness Features
•
Ample Natural light
•
Connection to Nature
•
Use of Natural Materials
•
Outdoor work and lounge areas
Health-Focused Design
•
Touchless / Automated Door Operators
•
Anti-microbial finishes on high-touch surfaces
•
Touchless Elevators
•
Enhanced Indoor Air Quality

--- page 695 ---
Reduces carbon emissions : Comparing a hybrid, mid-rise, cross-laminated 
timber (CLT) commercial building to a reinforced concrete building with 
similar functional characteristics, the CLT building represented a “26.5% 
reduction in global warming potential.
For a 52,000 sf, 6-story mass timber commercial building, the reduced 
carbon emission is equivalent to: 
325 cars off the road for a year
Energy to operate a home for 145 years
The volume of wood used takes U.S. and Canadian forests 2 minutes to 
regenerate 
Roughly 11%  of global greenhouse gas emissions come from building 
materials and construction. That’s what mass timber aims to reduce. The 
full lifecycle impact of mass timber on carbon emissions includes 3 
carbon effects
Supply chain: carbon-neutral wood supply 
Carbon embedding: 1 cubic meter of CLT wood sequesters 
roughly one tonne (1.1 US tons) of CO2 for 50 to hundreds of 
years
Substituting mass timber for concrete and steel: 2 tons of 
CO2 are emitted in the manufacture of a ton of steel. All 
those embodied emissions are avoided when CLT is 
substituted.
Performs very well in fire and meets code for fire safety 
Allows buildings to be constructed faster, with less waste
The performance of mass timber in earthquakes has been much tested and 
proven remarkably good 
The Advantages of Mass Timber (CLT)

--- page 696 ---
Property Zoning Clarification/ Cleanup 
Downtown Area Plan-figure 2
Existing Zoning Map
•
The 1st & B Property is located in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area.  
•
Within the Downtown Area Plan, the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning 
designation were intended to be limited in the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area 
and not in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area where the 1st & B property is 
located. 
•
The Downtown Area Plan envisions this area to “continue to support the retail 
core shopping area [i.e., not neighborhood commercial]. . . This will require a 
good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality . . .”  
The Plan includes the policy to “encourage the establishment of offices with the 
Downtown Retail Core and commercially designated areas” (Policy II.8.)  This 
intent matches with the General Plan’s Building Intensity Zone.
•
The intent of the Downtown Area Plan appears to be to provide the 1st & B 
property the same development rights as other properties located immediately to 
its south and west that are in the same Sub-Area and have the same General Plan, 
Downtown Area Plan, and density designations.  
•
Thus, it appears that the current neighborhood commercial zoning designation on 
the property is contrary to the intent of the Downtown Area Plan and may have 
been the result of an inadvertent error or a delay in rezoning the property to be 
consistent with the Downtown Area Plan.

--- page 697 ---
Affordable Housing Approach
Office to Housing formula:
o Either pay a commercial linkage fee or build 2 housing 
units at 1 st & B (31 South B Street)
Alternative Option :
o Per Municipal Code Section 23.61.050, as an 
alternative to payment of affordable housing 
commercial linkage fee, developers may propose the 
construction of affordable units off-site
o We are continuing this discussion with the City to 
discuss a potential alternative of a receiver site 
The benefit of building affordable units off site at a stand-alone 
residential project vs. on site in a commercial building is the ability 
to include amenities designed specifically with the needs and 
convenience of the residents in mind such as, 
o
A landscape area with seating
o
A tot lot with sculptural play equipment
o
Laundry room
o
Youth room for after-school educational, social and wellness 
program
o
Shared flexible spaces for recreation with Self-Help for the 
Elderly
o
Welcoming entrance and lobby area for privacy and comfort
Sculptural play area with seating area

--- page 698 ---
DONUT 
DELITE
IMPACT 
FEES
$7M*
SCHOOL AND 
ART FUNDING
$250K*
TRANSIT 
IMPROVEMENT
$196K*
INCREMENTAL
REAL ESTATE TAXES 
OVER 30 YEARS
$12M*
ENHANCED
RETAIL, PEDESTRIAN AND 
PUBLIC REALM 
EXPERIENCE
FROM
MAJOR TRANSIT
AND HIGLY WALKABLE 
(REDUCING TRAFFIC)
0*
miles
* Approximately
Summary of Project Benefits – 1st & B  
LINKAGE FEE/OFF SITE 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
$950k*
PROVIDES
EXPANDED RETAIL 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE 
COMMUNITY

--- page 699 ---
df,

HARVEST

PROPERTIES

Appendix



--- page 700 ---
S. B Street — Proposal Comparison

yg eg

sidewalk parking travel lanes & bike blvd

EXISTING CONDITIONS PROPOSED PER BIKE MASTER PLAN PROPOSED WIDENED SIDEWALK W/BIKE BLVD

*If City Consultant recommends an alternative bike route then the proposed condition would remain the
same, but without the sharrow.


--- page 701 ---
S. B Street Sidewalk Condition – Missed Opportunities

--- page 702 ---
Burlingame Ave Sidewalk Condition

E

atoll

ij
-

a

38’ curb-to-curb <i
70’ R.O.W. |

cs

10.0 ? 10.0 7 9.0 - 16.0

A|
5
i
>]
°
°

BU RLING AM F AVE CHARACTERISTICS THAT MAKE BURLINGAME. AVE SUCCESSFUL
TF 16’ Wide sidewalks that: CA’ Wide parking strip allows for parklet opportunities
vi Revitalize and prioritize pedestrian experience A Pavers unify street character & reinforce human scape
A Create an energized Downtown destination fA Dual lighting provides vehicular and pedestrian light
A Allow for storefront openings to activate streetscape 4 Taller poles support visible banners
A Allow for spil-out spaces to support F&B FA Pedestrian poles support hanging baskets
A Enhance vibrancy with furnishing zone and public gathering areas LA’ Wayfinding kiosks at comers are convenient
7) Allows for repeated street fixtures and planters to unify street character 44 Structures atrmid-block crossing mark and define the space


--- page 703 ---
Misalignment w pedestrian mall and parklet programs 
B Street historic core is trending towards a low traffic volume, pedestrian geared experience 
and is no longer consistent with the vehicular typology that went into it’s designation as a 
separated bike lane. 
Due to this increasing pedestrianization of B Street, we believe the separated bike lane should 
be relocated onto a different street for the benefit and safety of the cyclists and the intent to 
provide more expansive sidewalks, curbside parking and successful retail experience. 
San Mateo’s permanent outdoor dining program starts May 1, providing businesses the 
opportunity to apply for parklets and other outdoor dining options as the city moves toward a 
more pedestrian-friendly downtown.
The separate bike lane will be in directly conflict with the street closure for the pedestrian malls 
and the parklet programs as both will need to encroach onto the street to allow restaurants and 
businesses to extend operations outside.  
Key Changes since Bike Plan Adoption
• 2019 – City of San Mateo Bike  Mater 
Plan Research 
• March 17, 2020 – Covid Shelter in Place
• April 6, 2020 – San Mateo Bike Master 
Plan finalized
• Spring End 20202 – Popularity of 
parklets/outdoor dining along S. B 
Street
• July 2021 – Implementation of parklet 
permit 
• August 2021 – Approval of permanent 
Street closures on S. B St. between 1st
and 3rd Avenue
• May 1, 2022 – Permanent outdoor 
dining program starts