source: packet.pdf
sha256: d58e558ab568eb3b0783975c6de4fe2a126aab90a987a643558b3f8172f1170e
pages: 891
ocr_pages: 375
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
April 21, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
 
 
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: April 21, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 863 5336 0160      Passcode: 399541
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
San Mateo High Schools 4.0 Grade Point Average Graduate – Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
2.
Council Member and City Clerk – Travel Authorization
Approve the request for travel out of state and lodging for Council Member Danielle Cwirko-Godycki and City
Clerk Martin McTaggart, subject to the City Council Rules and Procedures, as the City's official representatives at
the 101st Airborne 1st Brigade Ball on June 18, 2025 to recognize the 60th anniversary of the 101st Airborne's
deployment to Vietnam.
CEQA: This travel authorization is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
1 of 891

--- page 2 ---
3.
Public Records Management Services - Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve an agreement with Granicus,
LLC for public records management services for a three year term through December 27, 2027, in the amount of
$70,911.55; authorize a contingency reserve of $7,091.15, for a total amount not-to-exceed, $78,002.70 over
three years; and authorize the City Clerk to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause
a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
4.
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution authorizing an appropriation of $140,000 from the City’s Measure A funds for the Hillsdale
Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (Project) for the Sanbell-Bay Area agreement and staff time.
Approve an agreement with Sanbell-Bay Area for professional consultant services for the Project in the amount of
$266,666, for a total Project budget of $318,411; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement, term extensions, and change orders in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Adoption of a resolution authorizing an appropriation from the City’s Measure A Fund to the Hillsdale
Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project is not a project subject to CEQA review, because it is a fiscal
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biosolids Hauling and Disposal – Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 2 to an agreement with Synagro-WWT, Inc. for wastewater treatment plant
biosolids hauling and disposal for an increase of $120,000, resulting in a total contract amount not to exceed
$2,044,250; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form
presented.
CEQA: This biosolids hauling and disposal is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no
expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
6.
Collection System Construction Management Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendments
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the professional services agreements with Tanner Pacific, Inc. and Townsend
Management, Inc. for as-needed construction management services for the Clean Water Program to increase
each agreement amount by $1,000,000 for a revised total agreement amount not to exceed $6,000,000 for each
firm and to extend the term of each agreement through January 1, 2027; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the amendments in substantially the form presented and approve future amendments within the
approved updated budget.
CEQA: The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program.
This project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general
components of which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR)
(SCH No. 201532006) that was prepared for the Clean Water Program.
7.
Human Resources Department Classification Updates, Reallocation, and New Position – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the 1) job specification revisions for the Deputy Human Resources Director
classification; and 2) reallocate the Human Resources Manager position to the revised Deputy Director of Human
Resources position.
2 of 891

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because they will not cause a physical change in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
8.
Sewer System Management Plan - Update and Recertification
Adopt a Resolution to recertify the 2025 update of the Sewer System Management Plan.
CEQA: This City Council action certifying the City’s sewer system management plans, as required by the State
Water Resources Control Board, is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
9.
Construction Management Services for Central Park Playground Improvements Project – Contract
Award a contract to 4LEAF, Inc. (Consultant) for construction management services for the Central Park
Playground Improvements Project (Project) on a time and expense reimbursement basis for actual work
performed, in an amount of $1,000,000; authorize a contingency amount of $150,000, for a total amount not to
exceed $1,150,000; and authorize the Parks and Recreation Director to execute the contract, in substantially the
form presented.
CEQA: City Council’s authorization of the requested budget appropriations is not a project subject to CEQA review,
because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project
which may result in a significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
10.
Housing Element Implementation – Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies
Receive a presentation and provide direction on how to implement the tenant protection/anti-displacement
policies in the 2023-2031 Housing Element.
CEQA:This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
11.
City Council Priority List – Adoption
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2025-26.
CEQA: This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 of 891

--- page 4 ---
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 891

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9847
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Council Member and City Clerk – Travel Authorization
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the request for travel out of state and lodging for Council Member Danielle Cwirko-Godycki and City Clerk Martin 
McTaggart, subject to the City Council Rules and Procedures, as the City's official representatives at the 101st Airborne 1st 
Brigade Ball on June 18, 2025 to recognize the 60th anniversary of the 101st Airborne's deployment to Vietnam.
BACKGROUND:
In 1968, the City of San Mateo officially adopted Company A of the 1st Brigade, 327th Regiment, 101st Airborne Air Assault 
Division of the U.S. Army—affectionately known as “ABU.” This adoption marked the beginning of a deep and enduring 
relationship between the City and the soldiers of this unit. San Mateo residents actively supported ABU through letters, 
care packages, and ongoing communication during the Vietnam War.
When the unit returned home in January 1972, the City of San Mateo received special permission to host the soldiers 
before they returned to their stateside base. Over the course of three days, San Mateo welcomed the soldiers with 
unmatched hospitality, including stays with local families, a gala event, and a celebratory parade and festival in Central 
Park. To the best of our knowledge, San Mateo was the only city in the country to host a welcome home parade for 
returning Vietnam service members.
Since that time, the City has continued to maintain and honor this special relationship, hosting additional celebrations with 
the unit, most recently in 2018 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the original adoption. The City has supported this 
legacy by sending representatives to commemorative events and maintaining regular engagement with the unit, especially 
during deployments. Notably:
•
In 2015, the City contributed $10,100 toward the 101st Airborne Vietnam Memorial at Fort Campbell.
•
The 101st Airborne has participated in several of San Mateo’s Memorial Day ceremonies at Central Park.
•
The City has coordinated community letter-writing and care package efforts during the unit’s deployments.
The 101st Airborne has arranged an event near Fort Campbell to recognize the 60th anniversary of the unit’s deployment 
to Vietnam. The unit has requested representatives of the City be present to receive its appreciation for our commitment 
to the unit. Council Member Cwirko Godycki has expressed an interest in representing the City at this event, and City Clerk 
McTaggart, as the manager of this special relationship, also wishes to attend on behalf of the City. Projected costs for air 
travel, lodging, a gift commemorating the occasion, and transportation are expected to be under $3,000.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding in the Council’s 2024-2025 budget to cover anticipated costs, thus no additional appropriation is 
5 of 891

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
required.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This travel authorization is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Rules and Procedures Chapter 9 Financial Matters
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
6 of 891

--- page 7 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures 
 
7/15/24  
22 
Chapter 9. 
Financial Matters 
1. 
Council Member Compensation 
A. 
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516). 
B. 
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation). 
C. 
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses. 
D. 
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website. 
2. 
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy 
A. 
Authorized Expenses 
1. 
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met: 
a. 
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City. 
b. 
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business. 
c. 
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels. 
d. 
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval. 
e. 
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value). 
f. 
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and/or its residents. 
g. 
Attending City events. 
7 of 891

--- page 8 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures 
 
7/15/24  
23 
h. 
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member. 
2. 
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council. 
3. 
The City will not reimburse the following expenses: 
a. 
The personal portion of any trip. 
b. 
Political contributions or events. 
c. 
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business. 
d. 
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events. 
e. 
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline. 
B. 
Cost Control 
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines.  
1. 
Airfare 
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized. 
2. 
Airport Parking 
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours. 
3. 
Automobile 
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
8 of 891

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures 
 
7/15/24  
24 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed. 
4. 
Car Rental 
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy. 
5. 
Conferences/Meetings 
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy. 
6. 
Internet 
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business. 
7. 
Lodging 
Council members are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (Per Diem Rates | GSA). This maximum applies to the 
room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government rates 
for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay only 
for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual Council 
members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will be paid 
by the Council member. 
8. 
Meals 
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that an employee elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
9 of 891

--- page 10 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures 
 
7/15/24  
25 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Council members only need to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase.  
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses. 
9. 
Taxis/Shuttles 
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency. 
10. 
Telephone/Fax/Cellular 
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business. 
11. 
Transportation 
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available. 
C. 
Expense Reports 
1. 
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy. 
2. 
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense.  
3. 
Expense reports are a public record. 
10 of 891

--- page 11 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures 
 
7/15/24  
26 
D. 
Audits of Expenses 
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy. 
E. 
Reports on Meetings 
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting. 
F. 
Violation of this Policy 
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources. 
 
 
11 of 891

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9845
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Public Records Management Services - Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve an agreement with Granicus, LLC for 
public records management services for a three year term through December 27, 2027, in the amount of $70,911.55; 
authorize a contingency reserve of $7,091.15, for a total amount not-to-exceed, $78,002.70 over three years; and 
authorize the City Clerk to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo originally signed a contract with WEBQA, Inc. d/b/a GovQA on May 11, 2016, for public records 
management services. The term of the contract ended on May 1, 2020, and since that time, the City has been extending 
the agreement on a yearly basis to ensure continued service without interruption. In 2021, Granicus acquired GovQA, and 
the City has been working with GovQA (now part of Granicus) under the same terms as the original agreement. As the City 
of San Mateo continues to rely on GovQA for managing public records requests, it has become clear that a formal, long-
term agreement should be established to provide service stability and access to new features and support. GovQA has 
agreed to a 5% uplift in pricing if the City commits to a new three-year agreement. This agreement will lock in pricing 
stability over the contract term and provide the City with additional features, enhanced support, and further 
improvements to the public records management process. A formal agreement will allow the City of San Mateo to 
continue meeting compliance requirements, improve operational efficiency, and provide high-quality service to the public. 
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) authorizes the renewal of an agreement with Granicus, LLC without a 
competitive bidding procedure when calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. Council is 
requested to approve an alternative purchasing procedure for this agreement due to the multiple years this service has 
been in use and to avoid service disruption that would occur from a change in vendors. Reassessing and evaluating 
alternative solutions and providers at this time would adversely impact current operations and efficient production of 
public records. GOVQA is considered a industry standard product for the production of public records. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds within the current Information and Technology Department operating budget to cover the costs 
associated with this agreement. In addition, staff will include the costs of the agreement in future budgets.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
12 of 891

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
13 of 891

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE MASTER  
TECHNOLOGY-RELATED SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE AGREEMENT WITH GRANICUS, LLC  
FOR PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
 
 
WHEREAS, GovQA is the City’s public records management software solution for handling public records 
requests, ensuring compliance, and improving operational efficiency; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Granicus, LLC acquired GovQA (WEBQA) in 2021; and 
  
 
WHEREAS, after the acquisition, the City continued service under the original terms with GovQA but 
must enter into a new agreement with Granicus, LLC as the current service period expires on May 14, 2025; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Sections 3.60.050(b) provides that exceptions to the City Council award 
procedures are possible if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that calling for bids for that 
particular agreement is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)  
 
2. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, 
or impossible because: 
 
a. The initial award of agreement with GovQA was approved by the City Council in 2016. 
 
b. GovQA has already rendered services for fiscal year 2024-25. 
 
c. A review of vendors and implementation of an alternative solution provider would disrupt 
current City operations.  
 
14 of 891

--- page 15 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 1 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
City of San Mateo 
AGREEMENT WITH GRANICUS, LLC  
FOR 
MASTER TECHNOLOGY-RELATED SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE 
 
This Software as a Service Agreement (hereinafter “Agreement”), made as of this day of 
____________________, is entered into by and between Granicus, LLC, (hereinafter referred to as “VENDOR”), a 
Minnesota Limited Liability Company, and the City of San Mateo (hereinafter referred to as “CUSTOMER”), a 
municipal corporation in the State of California. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
A. CUSTOMER desires certain equipment, software, maintenance and support services hereinafter described. 
 
B. CUSTOMER desires to engage VENDOR to provide these Products and Services by reason of its qualifications 
and experience for performing such services and VENDOR has offered to provide the required services on the 
terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 – DEFINITIONS 
 
1.1 
“Acceptance” means that upon delivery of each milestone set forth in the applicable SOW or project 
schedule, CUSTOMER will have ten (10) business days (“Acceptance Period”) to test such milestone to ensure 
that it complies with all material specifications as set forth in the SOW or any applicable design 
documentation.  Should such deliverable not comply with the specifications within the Acceptance Period, 
CUSTOMER will issue written notice of non-compliance to VENDOR with reasonable description of such non-
compliance (“Notice of Rejection”). VENDOR will have thirty (30) days or such other time period as agreed to by 
the parties to remedy the non-compliance and resubmit the deliverable for acceptance testing.  Resubmitted 
deliverables will be subject to an additional Acceptance Period.  Should VENDOR fail to deliver a deliverable that 
complies with the applicable contractual specifications after two attempts, CUSTOMER may terminate this 
Agreement and receive a refund of the fees associated with the failed deliverable. Failure of CUSTOMER to issue 
a Notice of Rejection during the Acceptance Period constitutes acceptance.. 
 
1.2 
“Applicable Specifications” means the functional, operational and other characteristics of the Products 
and Services or deliverables, timeline, milestones, assumptions, testing and validation criteria, and other 
specifications as described in the Statement of Work or Change Order.  
 
1.3 
”Change Order” is a mutual agreement in writing by both Parties changing the scope of the project. The 
Change Order will include information such as but not limited to the date executed, due date, scope of work, 
assumptions, agreed upon cost, hours and rates, job responsibilities, deliverables, verification and acceptance 
testing, payment terms, requestor, and approving parties).  
 
15 of 891

--- page 16 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 2 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
1.4 
 “Confidential Information” or “Proprietary Information” means all (i) non-public information if it is 
clearly and conspicuously marked as “confidential” or with a similar designation at the time of disclosure; (ii) 
non-public information of a Party if it is identified as confidential or proprietary before, during, or promptly after 
presentation and (iii) any information that should be reasonably understood to be confidential or proprietary to 
a Party, given the nature of the information and the context in which disclosed. The following shall not be 
considered Confidential or Proprietary Information: (i) any information in the public domain at the time of its 
communication thereof to either party by the other party; (ii) any information which enters the public domain, 
through no fault of the receiving party subsequent to the time of its communication to the receiving party; (iii) 
any information which is obtained in good faith by either party from a third party, provided such third party is 
not bound by a confidentiality agreement with VENDOR or CUSTOMER, as applicable; (iv) information that was 
already known to that party prior to the date of disclosure to that party; (v) information which the receiving 
party establishes was developed independently of confidential or proprietary information furnished to it; and 
(vi) information that is required to be disclosed to any court, government authority or regulatory authority or 
pursuant to requirement of law (vii) information that is a public record as defined by the California Public 
Records Act (Government Code 6250 et seq.) and any amendments thereto. 
 
1.5 
“Customization” means but is not limited to all code, software modifications or computer programming to 
the licensed Software developed or modified under the terms of this Agreement or related Change Order or 
Statement of Work. 
 
1.6 
“Defect” means (i) an omission in software code causing the software or integration links to operate such 
that it is not in compliance with the Applicable Specifications or (ii) the media on which the product(s) is 
delivered is damaged or corrupted such that the software does not load properly, (iii) the documentation 
contains gaps and/or erroneous information with regard to the deliverables, (iv) the Services delivered did not 
meet the Applicable Specifications or were not performed in a professional manner consistent with experts and 
professionals in the industry, or (v) errors, problems or other irregularities in the deliverables. 
 
1.7 
“Effective Date” means the date that this Agreement takes effect, which unless otherwise stated, will be 
the date set forth on Page One of this Agreement upon being signed by duly authorized representatives of 
VENDOR and CUSTOMER. 
 
1.8 
“Products” means the VENDOR’s computer software programs (“Software”) identified in the Product 
Schedule, and related Documentation, manuals, utilities and other related items and information. Product shall 
also include each and every Release (as defined below), patch, upgrade, version or Product correction available 
from VENDOR during the term of each Maintenance and Support Period. 
 
1.9 
“Release” means a new Product distribution, version, update or upgrade intended to correct errors or 
Defects, make incremental improvements in the functionality of the Product, provide significant improvements 
in the functionality or performance of the Product, and to allow CUSTOMER to enjoy full and productive use of 
the Product. 
 
1.10 “Services” means the consulting, integration, installation, and/or implementation services to be 
performed by VENDOR as described in the SOW. 
 
1.11 
”Source Code” means all of the computer language instructions, in both printed and machine-readable 
format, needed to compile, link and execute any or all of the Software or Customizations provided by VENDOR 
under the terms of this Agreement. Source Code includes, but is not limited to all of the libraries, compilers, and 
other utilities to take the raw computer language instructions and convert them into usable, executable Object 
16 of 891

--- page 17 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 3 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
Code on the hardware environment(s) at CUSTOMER’s sites. Source Code also includes all related Supporting 
Documentation (as defined below) and technical specifications required to allow a reasonably trained and 
knowledgeable technician to assume on-going support of the Software and Customizations provided by 
VENDOR. 
 
1.12 “Software” means the VENDOR’s computer software program(s) licensed by CUSTOMER and identified in 
the software license agreement. 
 
1.13 ”Statement of Work” means a document mutually developed and agreed upon by both parties which 
describes in detail the services to be provided by VENDOR, implementation schedule and phases, responsibilities 
of Customer and VENDOR, description and schedule of training, detailed list of professional services fees and 
expenses by major work task, acceptance plans, assumptions, risks, training schedule and description, etc. 
 
1.14 
”Supporting Documentation” means all materials, in print or electronic form, related to the Software 
and Customizations which shall include technical specifications, technical manuals, user manuals, user guides, 
abbreviated user guides, system administrator manuals, and all other training, reference, or support materials 
for Products, hardware, and Third Party Software provided under the terms of this Agreement. 
 
1.15 
“User” means any CUSTOMER employees, contractors, agents, assigns, member of the City Council and 
other parties affiliated with CUSTOMER who have the right to use and have access to the Product either on site 
or remotely to support CUSTOMER’s full, productive and lawful use of the Product or to access CUSTOMER’s 
information, transactions, and reports, consistent with that User’s role, responsibility or function. 
 
SECTION 2 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
2.1 
CUSTOMER hereby engages VENDOR, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement as 
described in the Statement of Work in Exhibit A of this Agreement, to provide the Product in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
2.2 
Performance of VENDOR. VENDOR accepts the relationship of trust and confidence established between 
CUSTOMER and VENDOR by the terms of this Agreement. VENDOR covenants with CUSTOMER to furnish its best 
skill, judgment, and efforts, and to cooperate with CUSTOMER and any other consultants or contractors engaged 
by CUSTOMER in the implementation and use of Product. VENDOR covenants to use its best efforts to perform 
its duties and obligations under this Agreement in an efficient, expeditious, and economical manner, consistent 
with the best interests of CUSTOMER. 
 
2.3 
Customer’s Rights to Engage Other Consultants.  CUSTOMER reserves the right to engage other 
consultants in connection with this Agreement.  Any third party receiving confidential information or trade 
secrets under this paragraph must agree to the same prohibition against disclosure as CUSTOMER and VENDOR 
may require that any such third party execute a non-disclosure agreement which includes widely accepted and 
reasonable non-disclosure terms. 
 
2.4 
Progress.  VENDOR shall keep the Project Manager and/or his/her duly authorized designee informed on a 
regular basis regarding the status and progress of the Products and Services, activities performed and planned 
hereunder, and any meetings that have been scheduled or are desired relative to the Products and  Services or 
relative to this Agreement. 
 
17 of 891

--- page 18 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 4 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
2.5 
Scheduling.  VENDOR shall generally have no obligation to work any particular schedule, unless otherwise 
provided in this Agreement or in the Statement of Work. VENDOR shall coordinate the provision of the Products 
and Services with CUSTOMER in such a fashion and schedule so as to achieve the results sought under the terms 
of this Agreement. 
 
2.6 
Statement of Work.  The Products and Services, such as but not limited to training, software 
implementation, software development and customization, consulting, and interface development, will be 
performed pursuant to and in accordance with the Statement of Work attached hereto as Exhibit A of this 
Agreement. 
 
2.7 
Change Orders.  Change Orders applicable to the Statement of Work shall be negotiated and implemented 
as described in the Statement of Work or as otherwise agreed to by the duly authorized representatives of both 
parties. VENDOR shall use its best efforts to provide all costs, Third Party Software, additional platform and 
infrastructure requirements, additional training requirements, and any other additional component or services 
within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of a Change Order. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF VENDOR 
 
3.1 
VENDOR Responsibilities.  VENDOR warrants that it has all requisite power and authority to conduct its 
business and to execute and deliver, and to perform all of its obligations under this Agreement.  
 
VENDOR warrants that the individual who has signed this Agreement representing VENDOR has the legal power, 
right and authority to enter into this Agreement so as to bind VENDOR to perform the conditions contemplated 
herein. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of all work 
furnished by VENDOR under this Agreement.  VENDOR shall, without additional compensation, correct or revise 
any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
VENDOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the Products and Services described under this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to provide the Products and 
perform the Services of VENDOR. 
 
VENDOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, 
which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
3.2 
Vendor’s Responsibilities for Costs and Expenses.  VENDOR shall be responsible for all costs and expenses 
incurred by VENDOR, personnel of VENDOR, and subcontractors of VENDOR, in connection with this Agreement 
and performance of the Services, including, without limitation, payment of salaries, fringe benefit contributions, 
payroll taxes, withholding taxes and other taxes or levies and all other amounts due to its personnel and 
subcontractors, office overhead expenses, travel expenses except as otherwise agreed, telephone and other 
telecommunications expenses, and document reproduction expenses.  
 
3.3 
Travel Expenses.  Travel and related expenses shall be necessary, reasonable and consistent with 
CUSTOMER’s travel policies, and shall be mutually agreed upon in advance. CUSTOMER shall not be responsible 
for any VENDOR travel time 
 
18 of 891

--- page 19 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 5 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
3.4 
Vendor Personnel and Professional Services Warranty.  The Services shall be performed by VENDOR or 
under its supervision, and VENDOR shall be responsible for all actions and work product(s) of the personnel 
working on behalf of VENDOR in the performance of this Agreement. 
 
VENDOR represents that it possesses the professional and technical personnel required to provide the Products 
and perform the Services for this Agreement and as defined in the Statement of Work. VENDOR warrants that all 
Services will be performed diligently and in a timely, professional and workmanlike manner by experienced and 
competent personnel with the care and skill ordinarily exercised by members of the profession practicing under 
similar conditions using all common and widely accepted practices and professional standards for Services such 
as but not limited to installing, implementing, deploying, and maintaining the Product. 
 
VENDOR represents and warrants that (i) none of the Products or Services or any part of this  Agreement is or 
will be inconsistent with any obligation VENDOR may have to others; (ii) as of the date of this Agreement, the 
Products, Services, deliverables or work products as they are delivered to CUSTOMER do not infringe, 
misappropriate or violate any intellectual property or other right of any person or entity; and (iii) VENDOR has 
the full right to provide CUSTOMER with the assignments and rights provided herein (including without 
limitation, through execution of appropriate written agreements with its employees, agents and 
subcontractors). 
 
VENDOR warrants that it takes all precautions that are standard in the industry to increase the likelihood of a 
successful performance for the VENDOR Products and Services; however, the VENDOR Products and Services are 
provided “AS IS” and as available. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, EACH PARTY HEREBY DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL 
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY NATURE WHATSOEVER WHETHER ORAL AND WRITTEN, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, NON-
INFRINGEMENT, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. VENDOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT VENDOR 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WILL MEET CUSTOMER’S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION THEREOF WILL 
BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE. 
 
3.5 
Remedies for Non-Performance of Services.  If any element of the Products or Services does not conform 
to the warranty on the Products or Services, then CUSTOMER shall notify VENDOR in writing of such 
nonconformance. VENDOR shall timely re-perform such element in a manner that does conform, provided, 
however, that if such re-performance is impracticable, VENDOR shall timely refund the fees allocable to such 
nonconforming element. At its sole discretion, CUSTOMER may withhold payment for non-conformance to 
professional standards, excessive or unauthorized costs, or defects in deliverables until remedied, and no 
interest, penalties or late fees shall apply to such withholdings.  
 
3.6 
Cooperation with Customer’s Project Manager.  As required herein or in the Statement of Work, 
CUSTOMER shall designate a Project Manager for the project effort to implement the Product. VENDOR shall 
work closely and cooperate fully with CUSTOMER’s designated Project Manager, and any other agencies which 
may have jurisdiction over or interest in the Software and related Products and Services. The Project Manager 
will administer this Agreement on behalf of CUSTOMER. The Project Manager, or his/her designee, shall be the 
principal officer of CUSTOMER for liaison with VENDOR, and shall review and give approval to the details of the 
Scope of Work and Products and Services as described in the Statement of Work and any Change Orders or 
Amendments to this Agreement. The Project Manager shall be specified in the Statement of Work which is 
mutually agreed to between CUSTOMER and VENDOR. CUSTOMER reserves the right to change its Project 
Manager.  
 
3.7 
Vendor Marketing.  No news releases, including photographs, public announcements, or confirmations of 
the same, relating to any part of the subject matter of this Agreement or any phase of providing the Products 
19 of 891

--- page 20 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 6 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
and Services shall be made without prior written consent of CUSTOMER. The information which VENDOR 
acquires related to its performance of the Products and Services shall be kept confidential unless the release of 
information is authorized in writing by CUSTOMER. 
 
3.8 
Electronic Format for Supporting Documentation.  All VENDOR and Third Party Supporting 
Documentation provided electronically shall be provided in a form and format that does not require CUSTOMER 
to purchase additional Third Party Software to view and print the Supporting Documentation. 
3.9 
Virus Free.  VENDOR warrants that to the best of its knowledge there are no viruses, backdoor entries, 
time bombs, unauthorized programming, lockout devices or other disruptive technologies being shipped with 
deliverables, Products or software in this Agreement. CUSTOMER will notify VENDOR in writing if it detects such 
disruptive technologies and will provide any information that it may have regarding the nature of such non-
conformance. VENDOR will correct such non-conformance in a timely manner and at no cost to CUSTOMER. 
 
SECTION 4 - GRANT OF LICENSE 
 
4.1 
License. VENDOR Products and Services are purchased by CUSTOMER as subscriptions.  VENDOR hereby 
grants and CUSTOMER hereby accepts, solely for its internal use, a worldwide, revocable, non-exclusive, non-
transferrable right to use the VENDOR Products and Services during the term of this Agreement.  VENDOR 
reserves all right, title and interest in the VENDOR Products and Services, the documentation and resulting 
product including all related intellectual property rights. No implied licenses are granted to CUSTOMER. The 
VENDOR name, logo, and the product names are trademarks of VENDOR, and no right or license is granted to 
use them.  CUSTOMER assigns to VENDOR any suggestion, enhancement, request, recommendation, correction 
or other feedback provided by CUSTOMER relating to the use of the VENDOR’s Products and Services. 
CUSTOMER shall not: (i) Misuse any VENDOR resources or cause any disruption, including but not limited to, the 
display of adult content, advertisements, solicitations, or mass mailings to individuals who have not agreed to be 
contacted; (ii) Use any process, program, or tool for gaining unauthorized access to the systems, networks, or 
accounts of third parties; (iii) Use the VENDOR Products and Services in a manner in which system or network 
resources are unreasonably denied to third parties; (iv) Use the Products and Services as a door or signpost to 
another server; (v) Access or use any portion of VENDOR Products and Services except as expressly allowed by 
this Agreement; (vi) Disassemble, decompile, or otherwise reverse engineer all or any portion of the VENDOR 
Products and Services; (vii) Use the VENDOR Products and Services for any unlawful purposes; (viii) Export or 
allow access to the VENDOR Products and Services in violation of U.S. laws or regulations; (ix) subcontract, 
disclose, rent, or lease the VENDOR Products and Services, or any portion thereof, for third party use; or (x) 
Modify, adapt, or use the VENDOR Products and Services to develop any software application intended for 
resale which uses the VENDOR Products and Services in whole or in part. 
 
4.2 
License for Use of Supporting Documentation. CUSTOMER is granted a perpetual license to use, 
reproduce and distribute to its employees, agents, contractors, and members of its elected council, all 
Supporting Documentation and Derivative Works which CUSTOMER may create for purposes of training, 
managing, operating (including for emergency back-up and disaster recovery purposes), and supporting the 
licensed Product(s) and their systems environment. 
 
4.3 
Source Code. No license to Source Code is provided, expressly or otherwise, by this license. CUSTOMER 
has no rights to any and all human readable programs, data, know-how, techniques, methods, programming 
practices, structures, utilities, and other materials and information which are used to create or are essential to 
the creation of the executable versions of Product. CUSTOMER recognizes and acknowledges that Source Code 
represents a valuable trade secret of VENDOR and is a copyrighted work of VENDOR. CUSTOMER further 
represents and acknowledges that all methods, know-how, programming practices, structures, techniques and 
20 of 891

--- page 21 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 7 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
other information, procedures or methodologies embodied in Source Code are proprietary to and represent 
valuable trade secrets of VENDOR. 
 
4.4 
Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties to this 
Agreement and their respective successors and assigns. 
 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CUSTOMER 
 
CUSTOMER shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
CUSTOMER shall examine documents submitted by VENDOR and shall render decisions pertaining thereto 
promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of VENDOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERM 
 
The Products and Services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on May 15, 2025 and 
continue through  May 14, 2028. 
 
SECTION 7 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be billed as agreed upon by both parties and set forth in Exhibit B. Annual subscription fees are 
due upfront upon the commencement of the Term of this Agreement, and one-time fees are due according to 
the billing frequency as specified in Exhibit B in an amount not to exceed $70,911.55. Customer shall pay all 
properly documented and prepared invoices not subject to dispute within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice 
by Customer. 
 
SECTION 8 – TERMINATION 
 
Either party may terminate this Agreement for convenience upon providing at least ninety (90) days’ written 
notice to the other party.    
 
Either party may terminate this Agreement for cause upon written notice if the other party is in material breach 
of this Agreement and fails to cure such breach within thirty (30) days after the notifying party provides written 
notice of the breach.  
SECTION 9 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
All documents prepared by VENDOR specifically and exclusively under this Agreement are and shall be the 
property of CUSTOMER, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
It is expected that one Party may disclose to the other Party certain information which may be considered 
confidential or trade secret information (“Confidential Information”). Confidential Information shall include: (i) 
non-public information if it is clearly and conspicuously marked as “confidential” or with a similar designation at 
the time of disclosure; (ii) non-public information of a Party if it is identified as confidential or proprietary 
before, during, or promptly after presentation and (iii) any information that should be reasonably understood to 
be confidential or proprietary to a Party, given the nature of the information and the context in which disclosed.  
 
21 of 891

--- page 22 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 8 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
Subject to applicable law, each Party agrees to receive and hold any Confidential Information in strict 
confidence. Each Party also agrees: (i) to protect and safeguard the Confidential Information against 
unauthorized use, publication or disclosure; (ii) not to reveal, report, publish, disclose, transfer, copy or 
otherwise use any Confidential Information except as specifically authorized by the other Party; (iii) not to use 
any Confidential Information for any purpose other than for performance under this Agreement; (iv) to restrict 
access to Confidential Information to those of its employees, agents, and contractors who have a need to know, 
who have been advised of the confidential nature thereof, and who are under express written obligations of 
confidentiality or under obligations of confidentiality imposed by law or rule; and (v) to exercise at least the 
same standard of care and security to protect the Confidential Information received by it as it protects its own 
confidential information. If a Party is requested or required in a judicial, administrative, or governmental 
proceeding to disclose any Confidential Information, it will notify the other Party as promptly as practicable so 
that such Party may seek a protective order or waiver for that instance.  
 
Confidential Information shall not include information which: (i) is or becomes public knowledge through no 
fault of either Party; (ii) was in a Party’s possession before receipt from the other Party; (iii) is rightfully received 
by a Party from a third party without any duty of confidentiality; (iv) is independently developed by a Party 
without use or reference to the other Party’s Confidential Information; or (v) is disclosed with the prior written 
consent of the Parties.  
 
Each Party shall return or destroy the Confidential Information upon written request by the other Party; 
provided, however, that each Party may retain one copy of the Confidential Information in order to comply with 
applicable law. CUSTOMER understands and agrees that it may not always be possible to completely remove or 
delete all Confidential Information from VENDOR’s databases without some residual data. 
SECTION 11 - INTEREST OF VENDOR 
 
VENDOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, 
financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the Products or 
Services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - VENDOR'S STATUS 
 
It is expressly agreed that in providing the Products and Services required under this Agreement, VENDOR shall 
at all times be considered an independent Vendor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the 
CUSTOMER as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein 
shall be construed to make VENDOR an agent or employee of CUSTOMER while providing the Products and 
Services under this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 13 – INDEMNITY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
13.1 
Indemnification. VENDOR will indemnify, defend and hold harmless CUSTOMER from and against all 
losses, liabilities, damages and expenses arising from any claim or suit by a third party unaffiliated with either 
Party to this Agreement (“Claims”) and shall pay all losses, damages, liabilities, settlements, judgments, awards, 
interest, civil penalties, and reasonable expenses (collectively, “Losses,” and including reasonable attorneys’ fees 
and court costs), to the extent arising out of any Claims that VENDOR Products and Services infringe a valid 
intellectual property right of any third party. In the event of such a Claim, if VENDOR determines that this 
Agreement is likely affected, or if the solution is determined in a final, nonappealable judgment by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, to infringe a valid intellectual property right, VENDOR will, in its discretion: (i) replace 
22 of 891

--- page 23 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 9 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
the affected VENDOR Products and Services; (ii) modify the affected VENDOR Products and Services to render it 
non-infringing; or (iii) terminate this Agreement with respect to the affected solution and refund to CUSTOMER 
any prepaid fees for the then-remaining or unexpired portion of the Agreement term. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, VENDOR will have no obligation to indemnify, defend, or hold CUSTOMER harmless from any Claim to 
the extent it is based upon: (i) a modification to any solution by CUSTOMER (or by anyone under CUSTOMER’s 
direction or control or using logins or passwords assigned to CUSTOMER); (ii) a modification made by VENDOR 
pursuant to CUSTOMER’s required instructions or specifications or in reliance on materials or information 
provided by CUSTOMER; or (iii) CUSTOMER’s use (or use by anyone under CUSTOMER’s direction or control or 
using logins or passwords assigned to CUSTOMER) of any VENDOR Products and Services other than in 
accordance with this Agreement. This Section sets forth CUSTOMER’s sole and exclusive remedy, and VENDOR’s 
entire liability, for any Claim that the VENDOR Products and Services or any other materials provided by 
VENDOR violate or infringe upon the rights of any third party.  
 
With regard to any Claim subject to indemnification pursuant to this Section: (i) the Party seeking 
indemnification shall promptly notify the indemnifying Party upon becoming aware of the Claim; (ii) the 
indemnifying Party shall promptly assume sole defense and control of such Claim upon becoming aware thereof; 
and (iii) the indemnified Party shall reasonably cooperate with the indemnifying Party regarding such Claim. 
Nevertheless, the indemnified Party may reasonably participate in such defense, at its expense, with counsel of 
its choice, but shall not settle any such Claim without the indemnifying Party’s prior written consent. The 
indemnifying Party shall not settle or compromise any Claim in any manner that imposes any obligations upon 
the indemnified Party without the prior written consent of the indemnified Party. The VENDOR’S duty to 
indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.  
13.2 
Limitation of Liability. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT, IN NO 
INSTANCE SHALL EITHER PARTY’S LIABILITY TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR DIRECT DAMAGES UNDER THIS 
AGREEMENT (WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE) EXCEED THE FEES PAID BY CUSTOMER FOR THE 
VENDOR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DURING THE SIX (6) MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE THE 
DAMAGED PARTY NOTIFIES THE OTHER PARTY IN WRITING OF THE CLAIM FOR DIRECT DAMAGES. VENDOR 
SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY LOST PROFITS OR OTHER DAMAGES, INCLUDING INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, 
SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED.  
 
 
SECTION 14 - INSURANCE 
 
VENDOR shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified in Exhibit C of this 
agreement. 
 
SECTION 15 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the Products and Services of VENDOR and cannot be 
transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by VENDOR without the prior written consent of CUSTOMER; provided 
that either party may assign this Agreement with reasonable notice to the other party to an affiliate or to a 
successor in interest resulting from  acquisition of all, or substantially all, of the assigning party’s business by 
means of merger, stock or asset purchase, or otherwise. 
 
SECTION 16 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF VENDOR 
 
23 of 891

--- page 24 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 10 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that VENDOR is skilled in the 
performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CUSTOMER relies upon the skill of 
VENDOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and VENDOR agrees to thus perform the work.  
The acceptance of VENDOR's work by CUSTOMER does not operate as a release of VENDOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 17 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either Party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of 
any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant, condition, 
ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, covenant, 
condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other term, 
condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either Party of any fee or other money which may 
become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other 
Party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 18 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding $5000, 
shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce 
the provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the 
trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  
It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.   
 
SECTION 19 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
VENDOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable regulations 
governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither VENDOR nor any of its sub-Vendors shall discriminate in the 
employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical 
condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the 
California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 20 – MEDIATION 
 
20.1  Dispute Resolution.  Except for any dispute, action or claim, regarding a party’s intellectual property rights, 
which shall be brought before a court of competent jurisdiction, in the event of any dispute between the parties 
hereunder, the parties shall first attempt to resolve the dispute at the Project Manager level representing 
CUSTOMER and his/her equivalent representing VENDOR. If the dispute is not resolved at this level within ten 
(10) business days of the date the other party is first informed of the dispute in writing, the parties shall attempt 
to resolve the dispute at the City Manager level and his/her equivalent representing VENDOR. The use of the 
foregoing procedure is a condition precedent to the commencement of any mediation or other legal 
proceedings hereunder. 
 
20.2   Mediation.  Except for any dispute, action or claim, regarding a party’s intellectual property rights, which 
shall be brought before a court of competent jurisdiction, should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any 
Party may request that it be submitted to mediation. The Parties shall meet in mediation within thirty (30) days 
of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the 
Parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
24 of 891

--- page 25 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 11 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
“blindfold” process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the Parties. Neither Party shall be deemed the prevailing party. 
No Party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than sixty (60) days, unless the 
parties extend the maximum time. 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to mediation.  The 
parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating 
parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by the 
American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-
upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  
No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum 
time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 21 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CUSTOMER'S request if litigation is brought against CUSTOMER in connection with 
VENDOR'S Services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon VENDOR'S 
wrongdoing, CUSTOMER shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at 
VENDOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
SECTION 22 - NOTICES 
 
All notices, requests, consents and approvals hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered with proof of 
receipt where official proof of receipt can be validated, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows: 
 
To CUSTOMER: 
City of San Mateo 
Attn: City Clerk 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
To VENDOR: 
Granicus, LLC 
Attn: Contracts 
1152 15th Street NW, Suite 800 
Washington DC 20005 
 
Either party may change its address or addressee for the purposes of this paragraph by notice. Notice given in 
accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed given when received. 
 
25 of 891

--- page 26 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 12 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
SECTION 23 – TOBACCO FREE STANDARDS 
 
CUSTOMER has adopted a policy which prohibits the use of tobacco products within CUSTOMER buildings, 
vehicles or on CUSTOMER property. VENDOR employees, subcontractors, or employees of subcontractors shall 
abide by the policy during the performance of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 24 – TAXES 
 
CUSTOMER shall be liable for all federal, state, municipal or other governmental taxes, duties charges or costs, 
however designated, now or hereinafter imposed, upon the Products and Services and deliverables of this 
Agreement exclusive, however, of taxes based upon net income, gross income or net worth of VENDOR; taxes 
based upon the franchise of VENDOR; taxes based upon any equipment or software, other than that which is 
licensed in this Agreement, which are owned by the VENDOR; or taxes paid by or for any employee of the 
VENDOR. CUSTOMER reserves the right to review the tax charges and, in no event, will be responsible to pay 
more than is appropriate or actually paid under applicable law. VENDOR will pass on to CUSTOMER any tax 
refunds received with respect to the CUSTOMER’s previous payment or reimbursement of applicable taxes 
hereunder.  
 
SECTION 25 – COOPERATION/FURTHER ACTS 
 
The parties shall fully cooperate with one another in attaining the purposes of this Agreement and, in 
connection therewith, shall take any such additional further acts and steps and sign any such additional 
documents as may be necessary, appropriate and convenient as related thereto. 
 
SECTION 26 – TRANSITION COOPERATION 
 
Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, CUSTOMER will have thirty (30) days to download or extract 
any CUSTOMER data records, logs, and documentation stored in VENDOR’S Products. 
 
SECTION 27 – FORCE MAJEURE 
 
Neither Party will incur any liability to the other on account of any loss or damage resulting from any delay or 
failure to perform all or any part of this Agreement if such delay or failure is caused, in whole or in part, by 
events, occurrences, or causes beyond its reasonable control and without negligence of the Parties. Such events, 
occurrences, or causes will include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes, lockouts, riots, acts of war, acts of 
terrorism, floods, and earthquakes. 
 
SECTION 28 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CUSTOMER and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. Unless set forth 
herein, neither Party shall be liable for any representations made whether orally or in writing.  
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by duly authorized representatives of both 
CUSTOMER and VENDOR. 
 
The documents constituting the Agreement between both Parties are intended to be complementary so that 
what is required by any one of them shall be as binding as if called for by all of them. The Exhibits shown below 
constitute a material part hereof, and are hereby incorporated by reference herein as part of this Agreement. 
26 of 891

--- page 27 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 13 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
1. Exhibit A - Statement of Work  
2. Exhibit B – Fee Schedule 
3. Exhibit C - Insurance Requirements 
 
In the event of a disagreement between the various documents relating to this Agreement, the order of 
precedence shall be as follows (in order from most controlling to least controlling): 
1. This Agreement  
2. Statement of Work  
3. Fee Schedule 
4. Insurance Requirements 
 
SECTION 29 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of litigation, venue will 
be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
27 of 891

--- page 28 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 14 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Granicus, LLC have caused this Agreement to be executed as of 
the Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives, and hereto have accepted the terms, conditions, and 
provisions set forth above.  
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
 
 
 
 
 
VENDOR  
 
 
 
 
Martin McTaggart 
City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
Date  
 
Bernadette Foley 
Senior Manager, Renewals 
 
 
Date  
APPROVED AS TO FORM  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Mazarin Vakharia  
 
 
Date 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A - Statement of Work  
Exhibit B - Fee Schedule 
Exhibit C - Insurance Requirements for Vendors 
 
 
 
28 of 891

--- page 29 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 15 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
STATEMENT OF WORK 
 
 
 
 
 
29 of 891

--- page 30 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 16 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
EXHIBIT B 
FEE SCHEDULE  
 
Pricing Summary 
 
 
 
Future Year Pricing 
 
 
 
30 of 891

--- page 31 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 17 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C 
Insurance Requirements for Vendors 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an 
“occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and 
personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 
25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. The 
Commercial General Liability limit required may be satisfied by a combination of primary, excess and/or 
umbrella coverage. 
2. Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form Number CA 0001 covering, Code 1 (any auto), or 
if Consultant has no owned autos, Code 8 (hired) and 9 (non- owned), with limit no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
(Not required if consultant provides written verification it has no employees) 
4. Cyber Liability Insurance, with limits not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 
aggregate. Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is 
undertaken by Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims involving 
security breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, social 
engineering, infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to infringement of 
copyright, trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information theft, damage to or 
destruction of electronic information, release of private information, and alteration of electronic 
information. The policy shall provide coverage for breach response costs, regulatory fines and penalties 
as well as credit monitoring expenses. 
31 of 891

--- page 32 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 18 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
Technology Professional Liability Errors and Omissions Insurance appropriate to the 
Consultant’s profession and work hereunder, with limits not less than $5,000,000 per aggregate. 
Coverage shall be sufficiently broad to respond to the duties and obligations as is undertaken by 
the Vendor in this agreement and shall include, but not be limited to, claims involving security 
breach, system failure, data recovery, business interruption, cyber extortion, social engineering, 
infringement of intellectual property, including but not limited to infringement of copyright, 
trademark, trade dress, invasion of privacy violations, information theft, damage to or 
destruction of electronic information, release of private information, and alteration of electronic 
information. The policy shall provide coverage for breach response costs, regulatory fines and 
penalties as well as credit monitoring expenses. 
a. The Policy shall include, or be endorsed to include, property damage liability 
coverage for damage to, alteration of, loss of, or destruction of electronic data 
and/or information “property” of the Agency in the care, custody, or control of the 
Vendor. If not covered under the Vendor’s liability policy, such “property” coverage 
of the Agency may be endorsed onto the Vendor’s Cyber Liability Policy as covered 
property as follows: 
If the Vendor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the Entity 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the Entity. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional insureds on the CGL 
policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Vendor 
including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability 
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Consultant’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO 
Form CG 20 10 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used). 
Primary Coverage 
Except for Cyber Liability, for any claims related to this contract, the Vendor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
and non-contributory. Coverage for commercial liability shall be at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects 
the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the 
Entity, its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Vendor’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. This requirement shall also apply to any Excess policies. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Vendor shall provide to CUSTOMER at least thirty (30) days’ written notice upon 
receipt from Vendor’s insurer of any cancellation of coverage. Waiver of Subrogation 
Vendor hereby grants to Entity a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Vendor may acquire 
against the Entity by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. Vendor agrees to obtain any 
32 of 891

--- page 33 ---
Technology-Related Professional Service Agreement 
 
Page 19 of 19 
Rev 5/24 
 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the Entity has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.    
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A-:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity. 
Verification of Coverage 
Vendor shall furnish the Entity with copies of certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause and a copy of the Declarations and 
Endorsements Pages of the CGL and any Excess policies listing all policy endorsements. All certificates and 
endorsements and copies of the Declarations & Endorsements pages are to be received and approved by the Entity 
before work commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not 
waive the Vendor’s obligation to provide them.  
Subcontractors 
Vendor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements stated 
herein, and Vendor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
 
33 of 891

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 24-9342
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution authorizing an appropriation of $140,000 from the City’s Measure A funds for the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (Project) for the Sanbell-Bay Area agreement and staff time. Approve an 
agreement with Sanbell-Bay Area for professional consultant services for the Project in the amount of $266,666, for a total 
Project budget of $318,411; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement, term extensions, and 
change orders in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City was awarded $153,000 in funding from the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) for the Measure
A/W Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 in December 2020 for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
project. In September 2022, the City Council approved an agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for engineering and 
planning services to assist the City with designing the project. The project scope included the design of a Class IV separated 
bike lane and intersection improvements on 28th Avenue and El Camino Real to safely transition bicyclists and pedestrians 
from the existing bicycle boulevard at Edison Street safely across El Camino Real to the existing Class I bicycle facility 
connecting to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station. 
In June 2023, the City Council adopted a resolution appropriating Measure A funds in the amount of $93,948 and 
establishing a contingency reserve in the amount of $88,255 for expanding the project limit to East Kyne Street. By adding 
this segment, the project strives to implement a fully connected east-west bikeway on 28th Avenue to improve safety for 
bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit-users. 
During the development of the 35% plans, there was staff turnover which resulted in the agreement expiring at the end of 
June 2024. As a result, a new agreement is needed. This new proposed agreement with Sanbell-Bay Area (formally Bellecci 
and Associates, Inc.) captures the scope from the previously approved agreement with some changes. Changes to the 
previous agreement are summarized below: 

Removal of the 28th Avenue and Delaware Street Intersection Design: The 28th Avenue and Delaware Street 
intersection is being improved as part of a separate City project. To prevent overlap, the revised scope will exclude 
this intersection. The designs of both projects will be coordinated to ensure consistency. 

Supplemental Outreach: With the 28th Avenue and Delaware Street intersection removed from the scope, the 
budget for that work will be reallocated towards conducting outreach following the 35% design. This supplemental 
outreach would include a community meeting and a pop-up table at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station to showcase and 
collect feedback on the preferred design.

Bus Boarding Islands: The preferred design includes bus boarding islands, necessitating additional design effort 
that was not included in the original scope. 
34 of 891

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 Summary of Public Outreach Efforts: Outreach for the project to date (30%) includes the development of a Technical 
Advisory Committee (TAC) which includes key partners from the county, local transit agencies, and local levels. The project 
outreach efforts have included creation of a webpage, an in-person community town hall meeting, and seeking feedback 
from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC). Future outreach will include an in-person community meeting, 
a pop-up event, an educational traffic signal operations simulation video, continued feedback from the TAC, and an update 
to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. 
The new agreement has the same total amount as the previous agreement. The difference is the previous agreement 
contingency is now allocated as part of the main scope in the new agreement. Since the previous agreement had expired 
all previously authorized contingency was automatically reallocated back to its original funds and now requires a new 
authorization or appropriation. This new agreement requires $140,000 from Measure A funding to support staff time for 
the aforementioned changes and cover the previously approved unused contingency amount ($88,255). Measure A funds 
previously dedicated towards the US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project will be repurposed to support this project. 
The City Council approved cancelling the US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project in September 2024 due to funding 
and resident impacts, allowing the unused Measure A funds to be used for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure Project. 
Staff recommends entering into an agreement with Sanbell-Bay Area for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure Project and approving a Resolution authorizing the appropriation of Measure A funds.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City’s Measure A Fund has sufficient funds available from the cancelled US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project 
(463535) to cover the appropriation of $140,000 for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Gap Closure Project (46m006). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of a resolution authorizing an appropriation from the City’s Measure A Fund to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project is not a project subject to CEQA review, because it is a fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)  In addition, as part of the Project Scope, separate CEQA 
documentation will be prepared for the final design plans.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution Agreement
Att 2 –  Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Associate Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
35 of 891

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.  
 (2025)
AUTHORIZING AN APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $140,000 FROM THE CITY’S MEASURE A 
FUND FOR THE HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION BICYCLE ACCESS GAP CLOSURE PROJECT
WHEREAS, the City and Sanbell-Bay Area (formerly known as Bellecci & Associates, Inc.) entered 
into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services on October 13, 2022 for the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (Project); and
WHEREAS, the scope of work for the Project included bicycle and pedestrian improvements on 
28th Avenue from Edison Street to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station; and
WHEREAS, on June 5, 2023, the City Council adopted a resolution appropriating $93,948 in 
Measure A funds and establishing a $88,255 contingency reserve to expand the project limit to East Kyne 
Street; and
WHEREAS, the City and Sanbell-Bay Area renegotiated a new agreement because the previously 
approved agreement expired June 2024; and
 WHEREAS, the new agreement captures the scope from the previously approved agreement with 
the addition of supplemental outreach and civil engineering for bus boarding islands, and removal of the 
Delaware Street intersection; and
 WHEREAS, additional funding will be needed to support staff time for the scope changes and 
unused contingency amount ($88,255) from the previously approved agreement; and
WHEREAS, the US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project was cancelled by the City Council in 
September 2024; and
WHEREAS, staff proposes Measure A funds appropriated to the US-101/Peninsula Avenue 
Interchange Project to be repurposed to support the Project; and
WHEREAS, staff proposes appropriating $140,000 from the City’s Measure A fund to fund 
additional staff time for the Project. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that:
1. Authorization of this budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which 
may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.    An appropriation of $140,000 from the City’s Measure A fund to fund the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Gap Closure Project (46m006) is authorized.
36 of 891

--- page 37 ---
AGREEMENT WITH SANBELL-BAY AREA 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION BICYCLE ACCESS GAP CLOSURE PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and SANBELL-BAY AREA, an S-Corp, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 
1390 Willow Pass Road Suite 300 Concord, CA 94520. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set 
forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as 
described in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to 
perform the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a 
Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
37 of 891

--- page 38 ---
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions 
pertaining thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's 
work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on September 8, 
2022 and be completed on or about December 31, 2025. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration 
for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a 
fee in an amount of $266,666, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached 
and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY 
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, 
upon ten (10) days' written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under 
this Agreement upon receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, 
documents become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon 
request without additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, 
although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the 
project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
38 of 891

--- page 39 ---
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  
CONSULTANT shall not make any such documents or information available to any individual or 
organization not employed by CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before 
any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any 
interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree 
with the performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required 
under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor 
as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work 
but not the means by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to 
make CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this 
Agreement. 
 
39 of 891

--- page 40 ---
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct in the 
performance of its design and professional services under this Agreement. To the maximum 
extend permitted by law and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.  
 
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s performance of non-design professional services under 
this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful 
misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of 
this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three 
years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in 
Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of 
CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without 
the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
40 of 891

--- page 41 ---
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that 
CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be 
done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and 
perform the work in accordance with the care, skill, and diligence ordinarily exercised by 
professionals providing similar services under similar circumstances to that of CONSULTANT 
under this Agreement, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said 
obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition 
of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a 
waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or 
violation of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other party of any 
term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement 
shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the 
trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, 
appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the 
other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
41 of 891

--- page 42 ---
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor 
any of its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, 
color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, 
unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair 
Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration 
Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The 
mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement 
is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by 
the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in 
connection with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by 
CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate 
CONSULTANT for preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard 
hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed 
as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Jay Yu 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
42 of 891

--- page 43 ---
To CONSULTANT: 
Sanbell-Bay Area 
Attn:  Daniel Leary 
1390 Willow Pass Road Suite 300 
Concord, CA 94520  
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either 
written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to 
execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who 
have signed this Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement 
and to bind each respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event 
of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
43 of 891

--- page 44 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SANBELL-BAY AREA have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Matt Fabry 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Daniel Leary 
Its Authorized Agent 
Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, 
Treasurer) who shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Anoop Reddy Admal  
Treasurer 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
44 of 891

--- page 45 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45 of 891

--- page 46 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
• 
Task 1 to Task 4 was mostly completed in the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure Project agreement between the City of San Mateo and Fehr and Peers executed on 
10/13/2022. Task 12 was added through an amendment approved on June 5, 2023 to align with 
the extended scope of work.  
 
• 
This new agreement with an expiration date of June 30,2025 will be to complete Task 4 to Task 
13 and any revisions needed from the previous task to complete the project. 
 
 
The Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (“PROJECT”) will include design of 
the Class IV facility proposed in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan on 28th Avenue between Edison Street and 
El Camino Real, and multimodal connectivity across El Camino Real to provide a path of travel for 
bicyclists and pedestrians. Sanbell-Bay Area (“CONSULTANT”) will provide civil engineering and 
planning services to the City of San Mateo for the design of this PROJECT. 
 
1. 
Project Management and Meetings 
 
1.1. 
City Kick-off Meeting - The project's goals will be identified as part of our preliminary design 
efforts and discussions with Key Stakeholders at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure Project Kick-Off Meeting. It is recommended that the kick-off meeting includes staff from 
various City departments: Maintenance, Public Works, Engineering, Finance, and Planning. 
CONSULTANT will identify the City’s primary goals and objective. CONSULTANT will 
coordinate with the City to establish the overall Mission of the Project and research options to be 
considered. Fehr & Peers will present our scope of work for community outreach and engagement 
and seek input from City staff to inform this approach.  We will also provide our approach for 
alternatives development and evaluation, and 30% design effort. At this meeting or as a follow-up 
to that discussion, Fehr & Peers will request input from the city to determine key stakeholders and 
other agency or stakeholder groups that should be integrated into our community outreach and 
engagement plan. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
1.2. 
Communication with City Staff – Project elements such as design alternatives, schedule, project 
costs, budget, and meetings will be communicated to the City through standing meetings.  
• 
PDT Meeting Every Two Weeks – City PM & Sanbell-Bay Area PM on Teams 
• 
Page-Turn Review Meeting for each submittal 
 
CONSULTANT will be responsible for managing both the technical and non-technical, 
organization related administrative work to deliver a bicycle gap closure project to the City. The 
key project management tasks that will be implemented by CONSULTANT include updating the 
project schedule; monitoring and updating the project budget, and scheduling coordination 
meetings. The project schedule will be created in MS Project. CONSULTANT will provide cost 
reports with invoices that highlight the approved budget, budget remaining, amount spent for the 
invoicing period, an estimate of the percent complete, and monthly project updates.  
 
 
46 of 891

--- page 47 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
2 
 
1.3. 
Quality Analysis/Quality Control (QA/QC) – The Peer Reviewer assigned to the Caltrain Station 
Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project will be checking the following items: 
• 
Addressing overall project goals with the design 
• 
Bicycle and pedestrian interfaces 
• 
Constructability Issues such as Street lights vs. Utilities vs. potholing data. 
• 
Bid Form, Measurement and Payment clauses 
• 
Pedestrian and Bicycle crossings and path of travel during construction 
• 
Grading Plan – Elevations & Slopes to meet the Caltrans RSP A88A plan 
• 
Specifications Checklist – Min. compressive strength of concrete mix design, asphalt 
paving specifications, compaction requirements, revocable bid items for contaminated 
soils, and testing. 
 
 
2. 
Community Outreach & Engagement 
 
2.1 Outreach & Engagement Plan – Following the kick-off meeting and subsequent email or phone 
correspondence with City staff, CONSULTANT will document the proposed outreach and 
engagement plan and send to City staff for review. Based on City comments or requests for 
clarification, CONSULTANT will revise the outreach and engagement plan and submit a final 
version for City staff.  This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
2.2 Stakeholder Interviews/Workshops and Field Walk – CONSULTANT will meet with key 
stakeholders to discuss the project, specifically the objective, priorities, challenges, and 
opportunities. This will include an optional field walk with key stakeholders (with city staff), to 
visit the site and review potential opportunities and constraints. CONSULTANT will solicit 
additional feedback from the stakeholder group and city staff while in the field, and seek to educate 
the group about potential considerations to be taken into account as CONSULTANT develops 
potential concepts for the project. A total of four hours of stakeholder meetings (including the 
workshop and field walk) is included in this task. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
2.3 Community Meetings/Workshops – CONSULTANT will prepare for and present to the 
community in person or virtually at up to two instances.  For the basis of our fee estimate, 
CONSULTANT assumes the following community meeting topics: 
• 
Presenting draft concept plan and ideas, seeking input about additional considerations. 
• 
Presenting the preferred alternative to the community for feedback and support as we 
initiate the Final Design phase 
 
CONSULTANT will use exhibits and collateral developed as part of Task 3 below for these 
meetings, and provide some additional content based on discussions with city staff and 
stakeholders to make best use of these community meetings. A total of 30 hours for Fehr & Peers 
staff is included for preparation for these meetings, attendance/presentation at these meetings, and 
some follow-up with city staff to confirm next steps after each event. This task was completed 
prior to August 2024. 
2.4 Website Updates & Coordination – CONSULTANT anticipates providing city staff with the 
content from the stakeholder meetings, community meetings, and our conceptual design efforts 
47 of 891

--- page 48 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
3 
 
(Task 3) to be included on a project website hosted by and maintained by the city. This task was 
completed prior to August 2024. 
 
2.5 Commission Meetings – CONSULTANT has included participation at up to two commission 
meetings as part of this task. One commission meeting was completed prior to August 2024. One 
commission meeting remains to be held. 
 
3. 
Alternatives Development 
Fehr & Peers will lead the development of alternatives, evaluating potential alternatives, and developing a 
conceptual design for the selected alternative with support from Sanbell-Bay Area. 
3.1 Field Visit – Fehr & Peers will visit the project site and review existing conditions, including a 
qualitative assessment of multimodal operations, access, and circulation. This task was completed prior 
to August 2024. 
 
3.2 Data Review – Fehr & Peers will develop a list of potential data that would inform our work and 
transmit to Sanbell-Bay Area and the City to determine the data available for this effort. 
CONSULTANT will review the data provided and other data readily available from other sources. This 
task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
3.3 Develop & Evaluate Alternatives – Fehr & Peers will develop potential alternatives using the results 
of our field review, data review, stakeholder engagement, meetings with city staff, and industry best 
practices about bikeway design and implementation. CONSULTANT will review readily available 
traffic count data to understand demand for particular movements and explore intersection phasing 
options to facilitate improved bicycle and pedestrian crossings across El Camino Real.  
CONSULTANT will prepare exhibits showing opportunities and constraints, corridor-level concepts 
and representative cross-sections, and relevant imagery to explain trade-offs and opportunities. 
CONSULTANT will develop up to three concepts in response to discussions with City staff and key 
stakeholders. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
4. 
30% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
Once a preferred alternative has been selected, CONSULTANT design team will develop the 30% PS&E for 
the 30% Submittal. The design documents will depict at a 30% design level for necessary traffic signal and 
bike modifications essential for the existing signals and proposed multimodal improvements to function 
properly. Plans will be prepared using AutoCAD and plot at appropriate scales on 22-inch x 34-inch sheets.  
 
CONSULTANT will include in their proposal the proposed sheets that will be included as part of the 30% 
design. 
• 30% Design Drawings: Drawings will include the 30% design level signal and phasing plans, civil 
infrastructure, and bike infrastructure to outline the proposed multimodal improvements within project limits. 
A readily-available aerial imagery will be used as a base map for the plans unless a more detailed 
topographic base map is made available for use for this task. This task was partially completed prior to 
August 2024.  
• 30% Specifications (Technical Specs Outline): Outline Specifications will be written in the format of the 
City’s standard contract book and Caltrans Standard Plans and Specifications, dated 2018 (where applicable). 
The City will provide a front- end boiler plate. 
• 30% Cost Estimate: The construction estimate will use readily available cost information including 
Caltrans cost database or other projects in San Mateo our other jurisdictions in the bay area. Construction 
estimate will be in a format which is best suited for presenting the overall project budget.  
48 of 891

--- page 49 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
CONSULTANT design team will provide the 30% PS&E to the City for review and schedule a meeting to 
review the documents. Following comments from the City, CONSULTANT design team will move forward 
with 65% PS&E. 
 
Deliverables: 
• 30% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate 
• Meeting with City to review documents 
 
5. 
Topographic Survey and Base Mapping 
The field surveying will be performed after the 30% PS&E and will be focused on topographic survey for 
at key conforms. Examples of items to be surveyed at the select conforms include curb returns, signal poles, 
utility boxes, drainage manholes, streetlights, asphalt, curb, flow line and lip of gutter, driveways, back of 
walk, retaining curbs, fire hydrants, sewer manholes within curb returns, drainage manholes, inlets, rim and 
inverts and others to be determined by the engineer and surveyors prior to the field work.   
 
CONSULTANT will collect available mapping, and to perform a professional land survey of the project 
site with a union survey crew. We will implement the following methods for Project Mapping: 
• 
Send letters to Utility Companies (PG&E, AT&T, Astound, Crown castle, Comcast, SFPUC, Caltrans, 
etc.) to get each agency mapping.  
• 
Review City GIS Mapping 
• 
Perform Field Topographic Surveying  
• 
Back check the above items against utility mapping obtained from City and Utility Companies. 
 
This project does not anticipate any right of way acquisition, the right of way will be shown approximately 
based on record maps, APN maps and other record maps which we will obtain from our land survey 
departments. 
 
CONSULTANT will prepare utility letters. CONSULTANT will notify the owners of the known utilities 
in the project area to obtain copies of their utility base maps for use in developing the base plans.  The 
approximate locations of the utilities from the information provided by the utility companies will be added 
to the base map.   
 
CONSULTANT will visually inspect the Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure site to assess 
possible constraints or issues to be addressed during design including existing physical constraints at the 
project site, limits of work and possible conform issues to be addressed during the design. CONSULTANT 
team will conduct a field review of the project area to collect information for project design and to review 
traffic circulation, including pedestrians, transit, trucks, and bicycles.   
 
Deliverable: Topographic Survey and Base Map, including utility information. The information from this 
task will be integrated into the design of all subsequent PS&E submittals.  
 
6. 
Preliminary Environmental Study - Environmental consultant, David J. Powers and Associates, Inc. 
(DJPA) will support the City in preparing the appropriate environmental document under the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
Project. This task includes developing a draft environmental document, assisting in circulating the 
document for public review, and finalizing the documents for filing per public comments and internal 
City feedback. 
 
49 of 891

--- page 50 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
5 
 
Deliverables:  
• 
CEQA Categorical Exemption (Administrative, Screencheck, and Final Drafts) 
• 
Preparation and Filing of a Notice of Exemption (NOE) 
 
7. 
Utility Coordination 
 
CONSULTANT will identify existing utilities from record drawings in conflict with the PROJECT by 
comparing "CAD BASE MAPPING" with existing utilities, and with the PROJECT layout in CAD. 
CONSULTANT  will prepare letters to utility companies for relocation of utility boxes and submit a PG&E 
application on behalf of the City. CONSULTANT will send notification letters to utility companies regarding 
adjustments to utility boxes during construction.   
 
Deliverables: Utility NTO letter, Caltrans Utility matrix, and PG&E Application 
 
8. 
65% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
 
CONSULTANT design team will further develop the 30% PS&E, incorporating all comments from previous 
reviews, for the 65% Submittal CONSULTANT will include in their proposal the proposed sheets that will be 
included as part of the 65% design. 
• 65% Specifications (Technical Specs Outline): Specifications will be written in the format of the City’s 
standard contract book and Caltrans Standard Plans and Specifications, dated 2018 (where applicable). The 
City will provide a front- end boiler plate. 
• 65% Cost Estimate: Construction estimate will be in a format which is best suited for presenting the overall 
project budget. During the 100% submittal the cost estimate line items will be converted to the appropriate 
bid form items. 
CONSULTANT design team will provide the 65% PS&E to the City for review and schedule a meeting to 
review the documents. The design documents will depict the 65% design level for the necessary traffic signal 
and bike modifications essential for the existing signals and proposed multimodal improvements to function 
properly. Following comments from the City, CONSULTANT design team will move forward with 95% 
PS&E. 
 
Deliverables: 
• 65% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate 
• Meeting with City to review documents 
 
 
9. 
95% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
 
CONSULTANT design team will further develop the 65% PS&E, incorporating all comments from previous 
reviews, for the 95% Submittal. CONSULTANT design team will provide the 95% PS&E in electronic format 
(MS Word, Excel, and PDF) to the City for review and schedule a meeting to review the documents. The design 
documents will depict the 95% design level for the necessary traffic signal and bike modifications essential for 
the existing signals and proposed multimodal improvements to function properly Following comments from 
the City, CONSULTANT design team will move forward with 100% PS&E. 
 
Deliverables: 
• 95% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate 
• Meeting with City to review documents 
50 of 891

--- page 51 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
10. 
100% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
 
A Final (100%) bid set will be prepared by the CONSULTANT design team and include technical 
specifications, a bid item sheet, and estimate of construction cost, along with final plans that include the sheets 
previously described.  
 
The final engineer’s estimate shall be provided electronically (MS Word and PDF), including detailed 
construction cost estimate documentation, and will also include a line-item bid schedule formatted to include 
in the bid package (to be filled in by each bidder). CONSULTANT will support the City in the preparation of 
the boilerplate specifications with surveying specifications and working days.  
 
The team will provide the City with stamped and signed original plans and specifications, including bid 
documents, and special provisions, for reproducing and bidding. Consultant will also provide input for the 
upfront/general conditions specifications, including number of working days, traffic control requirements, 
and construction staking requirements. Final plans, bid schedule and specifications shall also be provided 
electronically (MS Word and PDF, plans in AutoCAD and PDF), along with one stamped and signed 
original of the documents including a signed and stamped full size and half size plan set. 
 
Deliverables: 
• 100% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate 
• Final bid documents: submit original stamped drawings and complete contract book including bid documents, 
general conditions and special provisions in electronic format 
• Final quantity estimates, quantity calculation sheets, final construction cost estimate submitted in the format 
of the schedule of bid items in electronic format, including detailed construction cost 
estimate documentation 
• Other documentation as needed to clarify design  
 
11. 
Caltrans Encroachment Permit 
 
CONSULTANT will submit to Caltrans 100% Permit Plans along with various forms required for the 
encroachment permit. These include ADA Certifications, Storm Water Data Report – Short Form, Plans, 
Cost Estimates, and Maintenance Agreement between City of San Mateo and Caltrans. CONSULTANT 
will also make necessary revisions to the project plans per Caltrans comment to obtain approval for 
construction.      
 
Deliverable: Submittal of 100% Permit Plans to Caltrans (including revisions as needed) 
 
12. 
Project Scope Extension 
 
The Project extents for Tasks 1 to 11 include 28th Avenue between Edison Street and El Camino Real. This 
task amends the Project extents to 28th Avenue from Edison Street to East Kyne Street. The Project is inclusive 
of the 28th Avenue/Edison Street, 28th Avenue/El Camino Real, and 28th Avenue/East Kyne Street 
intersections. The 28th Avenue/Delaware Street intersection is not included in this scope, however, 
CONSULTANT must ensure this design properly aligns with 28th Avenue intersection design. This task also 
involves preparation of civil engineering plans for bus boarding islands at the undercrossing. If the preliminary 
design process results in a sidewalk level bikeway, CONSULTANT will prepare civil engineering drawings to 
provide demolition plans, improvements plans and grading plans at the undercrossing portion. It is assumed 
51 of 891

--- page 52 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
7 
 
the curb alignment will remain unchanged, and new bioretention will not be required, rather the sidewalk will 
include design for a vertical or tactile separation between the pedestrians and bicycles. The design will also 
address the bicycle and pedestrian connections to the Caltrain station ramps at the back of walk, and also 
program space for pedestrians waiting at the bus stop, or other design as appropriate.  
 
12.1 Extend Aerial Image and Focused Topographic Survey from El Camino Real to E. Kyne Street 
Sanbell-Bay Area will download an aerial image to be used for the extension of the preliminary design 
limits of work. Following the completion of the Alternatives design process, Sanbell-Bay Area will 
coordinate with the Fehr & Peers and the City to identify select locations within the alignment to 
perform one day of field surveying. 
 
12.2 Project Management & Meetings 
From the original scope, additional time for managing both the technical and non-technical, 
organizational related administrative work has been included for the extension of the preliminary 
design limits of work. 
 
12.3 Outreach & Engagement Plan 
A draft engagement plan has been developed and commented on by the City as part of the original 
scope of work. Subsequent work in this task consists of Fehr & Peers finalizing engagement plan based 
on staff comments and updating the geographic coverage for engagement plan given lengthened 
extents of the Project. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
12.4 Community Meeting/Workshop and Stakeholder Meeting 
This amendment includes additional budget for Fehr & Peers to support revising the previously 
produced community meeting advertising materials and expanding the extents of the materials for the 
community meeting itself. This task does not include translation of materials nor interpretation at the 
community meeting or virtual stakeholder meeting.  The community meeting was completed prior to 
August 2024. There remains a virtual stakeholder meeting to be conducted.  
 
12.5 Data Review 
This task is amended to include Fehr & Peers effort to review data and/or information for the 
lengthened Project extents. This task does not include any new data collection. It consists only of 
reviewing available data and/or information (e.g., previous or ongoing studies) related to lengthened 
Project extents. Such data and information is anticipated to include traffic counts, pedestrian or bicycle 
counts, collision data, feasibility studies related to vehicle lane reduction, speed data, previous input or 
comments expressed by community members and any other similar information the City is able to 
provide. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
12.6 Develop & Evaluate Alternatives 
The concepts will be refined versions of those previously developed under the original agreement.  
Fehr & Peers will evaluate alternatives qualitatively using the information provided under the Data 
Review activity above. The three alternatives and qualitative evaluation will be the information 
brought to the community meeting for discussion and input. This task was completed prior to August 
2024. 
 
At the end of the Alternatives phase and in preparation for Task 4: 30% PS&E, Fehr & Peers will 
provide a CAD-based drawing over scaled aerial imaging to Sanbell-Bay Area, at a 30% design level, 
showing the edge of the bicycle facilities, transitions, materials hatched, preliminary signal phasing 
and hardware, and other layout features. Sanbell-Bay Area will be responsible for further developing 
52 of 891

--- page 53 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
8 
 
the layout exhibit for Task 4 to identify the extent of the demolition and civil engineering 
improvements. This task was completed prior to August 2024. 
 
12.7 30%, 65%, 95%, and 100% PS&E 
This task is amended to include PS&E for the lengthened Project extents, including signing and striping 
plans. This task assumes up to four sheets for the signing and striping plans for the preferred alternative 
extending on 28th Avenue from El Camino Real to East Kyne Street. The signing and striping plans 
will include the inventory of the existing signs in coordination with the new signs to be installed.  
 
12.8 65%, 95%, and 100% Civil at Bikeway Ramps at Undercrossing to correct Stairs and Ramps 
Sanbell-Bay Area will prepare 65%, 95% and 100% improvement plans sheet for two undercrossing 
connections from the bikeway to the existing sidewalk. The plan sheet will include multiple viewports 
focused on the bikeway connection ramp locations. Each location will have two viewports on the plan 
sheet to depict the demolition and improvements for the bikeway entry ramp. New concrete slopes will 
also be provided. The fee estimate does not anticipate new storm drains or changes in the overall curb 
alignment.  
 
12.9 Video Detection for Bikes and Vehicles at Up to Two Intersections 
For up to two existing signalized intersections, Fehr & Peers will prepare one plan sheet showing the 
location, mounting, installation and details/specifications for new bicycle and vehicle video detection. 
This will be based on as-built plans provided by the City of San Mateo. Modifications will be shown 
on a Fehr & Peers stamped drawing.  
 
 
13. 
Supplemental Engagement 
 
13.1 Supplemental Engagement Materials 
Fehr & Peers will produce new promotional materials for the two engagement activities. The 
promotional materials will consist of a flyer per engagement activity with one round of review from 
City staff and a presentation with one round of review from City staff for the community meeting. 
 
Fehr & Peers assumes the two additional engagement activities will make use of the digital figures and 
PowerPoint presentation used for the November 16, 2023 community meeting. Fehr & Peers will print 
new hard copies of those materials for the two engagement activities. 
 
Fehr & Peers will produce two simulations of the recommended signal phasing provided by City Staff. 
One simulation will show the preferred signal phasing at either the El Camino Real/28th Avenue 
intersection or Delaware Street/28th Avenue intersection. The second will show the preferred signal 
phasing at either the El Camino Real/28th Avenue intersection or Delaware Street/28th Avenue 
intersection. The simulations will be a video clip of up to approximately 15 seconds showing an 
illustration of the given intersection in plan view and use animation to show how vehicles, people 
biking, and people walking would move through the intersection based on the recommended signal 
phasing. Fehr & Peers will produce up to two drafts of each simulation for City staff review. Fehr & 
Peers will produce a final version of the simulations based on City Staff comments. 
 
Deliverables:  
• 
One draft and final flyer per Engagement Activity 
• 
One draft and final presentation for the Community Meeting 
• 
Two simulations for two intersections (Up to two drafts and a final for each simulation) 
53 of 891

--- page 54 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Exhibit A 
Scope of Work 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
13.2 Engagement Events: Pop Up and Community Meeting 
Fehr & Peers will work with City Staff to coordinate and conduct one pop-up engagement at the 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station to take place over a total time period of up to 4 hours in a single day (e.g., 
could be a morning two-hour period and evening two-hour period on a weekday). To support the event, 
Fehr & Peers will prepare and provide the materials described in Task 13.1. Two individuals from Fehr 
& Peers will help staff the pop-up event. Fehr & Peers assumes the City will take the necessary steps 
to promote the pop-up event and conduct necessary coordination with Caltrain.  
 
Fehr & Peers will work with City Staff to coordinate and conduct an in-person community meeting. 
To support the event, Fehr & Peers will prepare and provide the materials described in Task 13.1. Two 
individuals from Fehr & Peers will help staff the community meeting. Fehr & Peers assumes the City 
will take the necessary steps to promote the community meeting and identify and reserve a location 
for the meeting to take place. 
 
Deliverables:  
• 
Attendance at two engagement events 
• 
One draft summary of the information gathered during the pop-up event and community meeting 
to City staff for review and provide one final version based on comments 
54 of 891

--- page 55 ---
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
 
55 of 891

--- page 56 ---
City of San Mateo, CA
Proposal for: Engineering Services for Hillsdale Station Bike Access Gap Closure Project
12/16/2024
Tasks
Base Services
Amendment 1
Total
Task
 #
Task Description
Sanbell
Fehr & Peers
(Traffic)
Envir
Support
Sub Mark
Up
Other
Direct
Costs
Subtotal
Original
Fee
Sanbell
Fehr & Peers
(Traffic)
Sub
Mark Up
Other
Direct
Costs
Subtotal Fee
Basic +
Amendment
1
Project Management & Meetings
$0
$0
$0
$3,500
$1,222
$122
$4,844
$4,844
2
Community Meetings & Commission Meetings (Ph 1)
$0
$0
$0
$0
$1,400
$4,581
$458
$6,439
$6,439
3
Develop, Evaluate Alternatives & 30% Plans & Est
$0
$0
$0
$0
$2,038
$4,000
$400
$6,438
$6,438
4
30% Plans
$0
$3,801
$4,799
$480
$9,080
$9,080
5
Base Mapping
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
6
Prelim Environmental
$912
$2,606
$182
$3,700
$0
$0
$3,700
7
Utility Coordination
$5,800
$0
$5,800
$0
$0
$5,800
8
65% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates
$35,844
$15,000
$1,050
$51,894
$26,788
$10,408
$1,041
$38,237
$90,131
9
95% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates
$0
$26,788
$11,408
$1,141
$39,337
$39,337
10
100% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates
$24,544
$8,000
$560
$33,104
$13,394
$6,004
$600
$1,100
$21,099
$54,203
11
Caltrans Encroachment Permit
$3,319
$0
$3,319
$0
$0
$3,319
12
Project Scope Extension
$77,710
$42,422
$4,242
$1,100
$125,474
13
Supplemental Engagement
$5,799
$34,159
$3,416
$43,374
$43,374
Basic Service Subtotal
$70,419
$23,000
$2,606
$1,792
$0
$97,817
$83,509
$76,581
$7,658
$1,100
$168,848
$266,666
Notes:
Sanbell combined
$153,928
1
Distribution of Hours may vary during the performance of the services
Fehr & Peers combined
$99,581
Environmental
$2,606
Mark-up & Expenses
$10,551
Amount Remaining (assume amount paid is 101,447)
$266,666
56 of 891

--- page 57 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 
07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability 
arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General 
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s 
insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used). 
 
57 of 891

--- page 58 ---
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute 
with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the 
City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of 
said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance.  CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect 
this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The 
City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention 
or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and 
defense expenses within the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning 
shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to 
require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements re 
58 of 891

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9796
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biosolids Hauling and Disposal – Change Order  
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 2 to an agreement with Synagro-WWT, Inc. for wastewater treatment plant biosolids 
hauling and disposal for an increase of $120,000, resulting in a total contract amount not to exceed $2,044,250; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment process produces biosolids, which are hauled off-site for routine disposal. The Wastewater 
Treatment Plant (WWTP) biosolids hauling and disposal agreement provides for the removal of an estimated 25,000 tons 
of biosolids over a period of 36 months. Synagro-WWT, Inc. was awarded the contract to haul the WWTP’s biosolids in 
accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030; a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this service. 
In December 2023, the mixing unit on Digester No. 2 failed. To remove and repair the mixer, it was necessary to remove 
the digester from service. With one of two digesters offline more biosolids are being produced than usual resulting in 
unforeseen increased hauling and disposal costs. Change Order No. 1 was executed in May 2024 to cover increased 
hauling costs for the second year of the three-year agreement increasing the agreement by $100,000 for a revised total 
agreement cost of $1,924,250. The anticipated return to service of Digester #2 has been delayed requiring increased 
biosolid hauling throughout the current Fiscal Year. This change order will allow for the increased hauling cost through the 
end of the third year of the agreement. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are budgeted in the Wastewater Treatment Plant Operating Budget to issue this change order and 
increase the contract amount. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This biosolids hauling and disposal is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, 
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Change Order No. 2 
59 of 891

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
60 of 891

--- page 61 ---
C:\inetpub\wwwroot\multitenant\temp\Att 1 - Change Order No.pdf
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER 2
PROJECT:
WWTP BIOSOLIDS HAULING AND DISPOSAL
TO:
SYNAGRO- WWT, INC. 
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.  2
        Page 1 of 1
Purchase Order No. PO-0001169
03/21/25
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
The wastewater treatment process produces biosolids, which are hauled off-site for disposal on a routine basis at a 
cost of $78.90 per wet ton. Synagro-WWT, Inc. was awarded the contract to haul the WWTP’s biosolids in 
accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this 
service.
Approve a change order to an agreement with Synagro-WWT Inc. for wastewater treatment plant biosolids hauling 
and disposal for an increase of $120,000 resulting in a total contract amount not to exceed $2,044,250. 
 
Total cost of change not to exceed: $120,000
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, ___ days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: SYNAGRO- WWT, INC.  
By: 
Title: 
Contracts Manager
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing Department, Contractor, Construction Inspector, 
Project Manager/Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$1,824,250
Previous Change Orders
$100,000
Total to date
$1,924,250
This Change Order
$120,000
Revised Contract Price
$2,044,250
Date Approved: 
By: 
       Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
61 of 891

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 25-9808
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Collection System Construction Management Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the professional services agreements with Tanner Pacific, Inc. and Townsend Management, 
Inc. for as-needed construction management services for the Clean Water Program to increase each agreement amount by 
$1,000,000 for a revised total agreement amount not to exceed $6,000,000 for each firm and to extend the term of each 
agreement through January 1, 2027; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendments in substantially 
the form presented and approve future amendments within the approved updated budget. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes improvements to wastewater system capacity, flow management, and inflow 
and infiltration reduction to comply with regulatory requirements. Construction management services provide as-needed 
support for the remainder of the CWP Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and collection system improvement projects, 
which include various improvements to various WWTP process facilities, new capacity relief sewers, sewer 
rehabilitations/repairs, and lift station improvements. 
On June 21, 2021, City Council approved agreements with Tanner Pacific, Inc. and Townsend Management, Inc. to provide 
as-needed construction management services for various CWP collection system projects under the CWP. Each agreement 
was approved for an amount not to exceed $3,000,000 with a term of three years. 
On August 15, 2022, City Council approved amendments (Amendment No. 1) to both Tanner Pacific and Townsend 
Management agreements to include construction management services for WWTP projects with no additional cost to the 
original agreement amounts, and to extend the term of the agreements from three years to five years to July 2026. 
On June 20, 2023, City Council approved amendments (Amendment No. 2) to both Tanner Pacific and Townsend 
Management agreements to increase each agreement amount by $2,000,000 to $5,000,000 for each firm. 
Amending the construction management services agreements to increase each agreement amount will allow for the full 
inclusion of the CWP’s remaining WWTP and collection system projects. 
Staff recommends approval of Amendment No. 3 to extend the agreements with Tanner Pacific and Townsend 
Management through the anticipated January 1, 2027, completion of the CWP’s planned construction and project 
closeouts, and to increase each agreement amount by $1,000,000 for a new total agreement amount of $6,000,000 for 
each firm. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
62 of 891

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
There are sufficient funds in the various Clean Water Program capital project budgets available to fund these 
amendments. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. The City prepared 
Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work 
is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 3 (Tanner Pacific)
Att 2 - Amendment No. 3 (Townsend Management)
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Webb, Acting Senior Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Thomas Ruark, Project Manager II
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Thomas Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7307
63 of 891

--- page 64 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND TANNER PACIFIC, INC. 
FOR CLEAN WATER PROGRAM COLLECTION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION 
MANAGEMENT SERVICES
($3,000,000 [Original Amount], $0 [Amendment No. 1], $2,000,000 [Amendment No. 2], 
$1,000,000 [Amendment No. 3])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and TANNER PACIFIC, INC. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for 
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM COLLECTION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES (“Agreement”) on July 1, 2021,
WHEREAS, on September 13, 2022, the CITY and CONSULTANT executed 
Amendment No. 1, extending the scope of the Agreement and the term of the Agreement by two 
years, for a total Agreement timeline of five years; and
WHEREAS, on July 17, 2023, the CITY and CONSULTANT executed Amendment No. 
2, increasing the Agreement by $2,000,000, for a total Agreement in the amount of $5,000,000; 
and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement to extend the 
term of this Agreement, and wish to amend the Agreement to increase the Agreement by 
$1,000,000, for a total Agreement in the amount of $6,000,000. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 7 – “Term, Progress, and Completion” of the Agreement is amended to 
read:
“This Agreement shall be valid until January 1, 2027.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. 
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the 
CONSULTANT’S timetable.”
2.
The first paragraph of Section 8 – “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to 
read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$6,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the varius 
items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and cost 
schedule set forth in Exhibit B.” 
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE]
64 of 891

--- page 65 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and TANNER PACIFIC, INC. have 
executed this Amendment No. 3 on _______________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Tanner Pacific, Inc.
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
William Tanner
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
65 of 891

--- page 66 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
TOWNSEND MANAGEMENT, INC. 
FOR CLEAN WATER PROGRAM COLLECTION SYSTEM 
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES
($3,000,000 [Original Amount], $0 [Amendment No. 1], $2,000,000 [Amendment No. 2], 
$1,000,000 [Amendment No. 3])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of 
California, and TOWNSEND MANAGEMENT, INC. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an 
Agreement for CLEAN WATER PROGRAM COLLECTION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION 
MANAGEMENT SERVICES (“Agreement”) on July 9, 2021,
WHEREAS, on September 13, 2022, the CITY and CONSULTANT executed 
Amendment No. 1, extending the scope of the Agreement and the term of the Agreement by two 
years, for a total Agreement timeline of five years; and
WHEREAS, on July 10, 2023, the CITY and CONSULTANT executed Amendment No. 
2, increasing the Agreement by $2,000,000, for a total Agreement in the amount of $5,000,000; 
and
WHEREAS, City and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement to extend the term 
of this Agreement, and wish to amend the Agreement to increase the Agreement by $1,000,000, 
for a total Agreement in the amount of $6,000,000. 
WHEREAS, City and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement effective July 9, 2021, to 
increase the payment for professional services. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 7 – “Term, Progress, and Completion” of the Agreement is amended to 
read:
“This Agreement shall be valid until January 1, 2027.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement.
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the 
CONSULTANT’S timetable.”
2.
The first paragraph of Section 8 – “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to 
read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon 
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work 
performed. In consideration for the full performances of the services and any 
reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed 
$6,000,000. Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the 
various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B.” 
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
66 of 891

--- page 67 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and TOWNSEND MANAGEMENT, INC. 
have executed this Amendment No. 3 on _______________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Townsend Management, Inc.
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Zamir Zuraek
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
67 of 891

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9830
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025
SUBJECT:
Human Resources Department Classification Updates, Reallocation, and New Position – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the 1) job specification revisions for the Deputy Human Resources Director classification; 
and 2) reallocate the Human Resources Manager position to the revised Deputy Director of Human Resources position.
BACKGROUND:
The current vacant status of the Human Resources (“HR”)  Manager position in the Human Resources Department 
(“Department”) has created an opportunity to assess and restructure the Department to maximize resources and meet its 
current and future organizational needs. 
Deputy Director of HR
The Deputy Director of HR classification was approved by the City Council in 2004; however, the position was eliminated 
on November 15, 2021. As a result, there has been a lack of day-to-day coordination and support in policy and program 
development in the Department. The Deputy Director of HR will assist in the administration, planning, and coordination of 
the operations of major functional areas in the HR Department, including continuous improvement, negotiations, and day-
to-day supervision. Furthermore, this position will assist the HR Director in performing high-level administrative 
management functions creating capacity to support organizational development and help develop a strong work culture of 
engagement, collaboration, and continuous development. This is essential for fostering professional growth, improving 
workplace morale and retention, and enhancing overall performance.   The job classification for the Deputy Director of HR 
has been updated to reflect the current duties and responsibilities (Attachment 1 - Exhibit A). 
Based on the needs assessment conducted in late 2024, the HR Department will be prioritizing and implementing 
recommendations to enhance HR services and programs. These recommendations fall under the following three (3) 
categories: (1) structure and staffing, (2) program evaluation and implementation, and (3) policies and procedures. These 
recommendations include modernizing practices, streamlining processes, and developing HR programs, policies, and 
procedures in alignment with the goals and initiatives of the City of San Mateo. The Deputy Director of HR will assist with 
the evaluation and implementation of these recommendations and initiatives. 
To ensure these recommendations are implemented successfully, it is essential for the HR Department to have the 
appropriate organizational structure and staffing levels. These recommendations, if carried out effectively, will have a far-
reaching positive impact on the City of San Mateo, benefiting both the workforce and the community we serve.
To support the transformation of the Department, the City Manager recommends: 1) updating the job specification for the 
Deputy Director of HR, and 2) reallocating the HR Manager (job code 2108) position to Deputy Director of HR (job code 
2099) position.
68 of 891

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The reallocation of the HR Manager position to the updated Deputy Director of HR position will result in an annual 
increase to the General Fund of approximately $82,000. The FY 24-25 operating budget can absorb the increase for this 
fiscal year and the Deputy Director of HR position will be incorporated into future budgets.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because they will not cause a physical change in the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A – Job Specification
             Exhibit B – Merit Salary Schedule
Att 2 – Job Specification with Tracked Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Aracelia G. Esparza, Human Resources Director 
aesparza@cityofsanmateo.org 
650.522.7260
69 of 891

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2025)
APPROVING THE CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications 
must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed updates as detailed below will provide increased coverage of the day-
to-day coordination and support in policy and program development, assist in the administration, 
planning and coordination of the operations of major functional areas, and support the Director in 
performing high-level administrative management functions in the Human Resources Department; and
WHEREAS, the proposed job specification and salary range for the classification of Deputy 
Director of Human Resources are attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, and incorporated by reference; 
and
WHEREAS, the employee association representing the impacted classification has been informed 
of the proposed classification updates and has not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
The classification updates are not subject to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)) because it can be seen with certainty that they will not 
cause a physical change in the environment; and
2.
The reallocation of the vacant Human Resources Manager to Deputy Director of Human 
Resources; and
3.
The job specification and salary range for the classification of Deputy Director of Human 
Resources attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, are approved. 
70 of 891

--- page 71 ---
Exhibit A
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES
DEFINITION
Under general direction, assists the Human Resources Director in the administration, planning, and 
coordination of the operations of major functional areas of the Human Resources Department;  
coordinates assigned activities with other City departments, divisions, and outside agencies; and 
provides highly responsible and complex administrative support to the Human Resources Director.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
The Deputy Director of Human Resources is a single classification and reports to the Director of 
Human Resources. This position is distinguished from the Senior Human Resources Analyst 
classification in that the Deputy Director of Human Resources performs high-level administrative 
management functions in supporting the HR Director in policy and program development. Whereas 
the Senior Human Resources Analyst performs a wide variety of administrative, analytical, and 
coordination of day-to-day duties in support of the human resources services and programs. The 
Deputy Director of Human Resources classification is distinguished from the Director of Human 
Resources in that the latter has overall administrative oversight, which includes reviewing and 
developing policies and priorities with respect to human resources programs and services. 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED
Exercises direct supervision over professional staff.
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES –Duties may include, but are not 
limited to, the following:
Assist in the development, implementation, and evaluation of departmental policies, procedures, 
goals, objectives, and priorities for each assigned service area. 
Assist in monitoring and evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of human resources services 
and programs, processes, and practices. Assess and monitor workload, staffing levels, and 
resources. Identify opportunities for improvement.
Conduct a variety of organizational and operational studies and investigations, and make 
recommendations. 
Coordinate activities between major departmental divisions and/or sections to ensure efficiency and 
effectiveness of departmental operations. 
Assist in planning, directing, and coordinating the Human Resources Department's work plan. 
71 of 891

--- page 72 ---
Serve as an active member of the City’s negotiation team as assigned. 
Represent the Human Resources Department in meetings with other City departments, elected 
officials and outside agencies; explain and interpret Human Resources Department programs, 
policies, and activities; negotiate and resolve sensitive, significant and controversial issues; and 
provide advice and assistance to management staff regarding personnel matters.
Assist in ensuring compliance with policies, contracts, Federal, State and local human resources 
management regulations; review and analyze reports, legislation, court cases, and related personnel 
matters.
Act as liaison with regulatory agencies to address formal complaints of harassment and 
discrimination; and prepare reports and documents as required. 
Select, supervise, train, motivate and evaluate assigned personnel; develop and implement action 
plans to address work deficiencies.
Provide consultation to departmental managers on a variety of human resources matters; discuss 
organizational problems, develop alternatives and strategies for dealing with those problems; and 
assist in implementation of solutions, as necessary.
Assist in the development and administration of the Human Resources Department budget, 
including the forecast of additional funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies. 
Assist in monitoring and approving expenditures.
Assist with coordinating Human Resources Department activities with those of other departments, 
divisions and outside agencies and organizations; provide staff assistance to the Human Resources 
Director, City Manager, and City Council; prepare and present staff reports and other necessary 
correspondence.
Research, collect, compile, and analyze information from various sources on a variety of specialized 
human resources topics; prepare comprehensive technical records, reports, and summaries to 
present and interpret data, identify alternatives, and make and justify recommendations.
Assist in the development and revisions of City policies, procedures, and programs.  
Assist in monitoring legislation and analyzing proposed legislation to determine impact on human 
resources operations and programs.
Prepare and direct the preparation of a variety of written correspondence, reports, procedures, and 
other written materials. 
Serve as a liaison with employees, public and private organizations, community groups, and other 
organizations; provide information and assistance regarding human resources programs and 
services; receive and respond to complaints and questions relating to human resources; review 
problems and recommend corrective actions.
72 of 891

--- page 73 ---
Participate on a variety of committees and task forces; attend and participate in professional group 
meetings; stay abreast of new trends and innovations in the field of human resources and benefits.
Assume responsibility for the department's operations in the absence of the Director of Human 
Resources, and as needed. Represents the Director of Human Resources in a variety of meetings and 
committees. 
Perform other related duties and responsibilities as assigned.
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Principles, practices, and techniques of human resources in a public agency setting, 
including recruitment, selection, equal employment opportunity, and onboarding; 
classification and compensation; benefit and compensation analysis and administration; 
workers’ compensation and safety; disability laws and leaves; employee development and 
workforce planning; and employee and labor relations, including the interpretation of laws, 
regulations, policies, and procedures 
Principles and practices of public sector labor relations, including effective negotiation 
techniques, grievance resolution methods, and progressive discipline
Practices of researching programmatic challenges, evaluating alternatives, making sound 
recommendations, and preparing and presenting effective staff reports  
Applicable Federal, State and local laws, rules, and regulations 
Administrative principles and practices, including goal setting, program development, 
implementation, and evaluation 
Principles and practices of budget development, administration, and accountability 
Organization and supervisory principles, practices, and techniques 
Organization and management practices as applied to the analysis and evaluation of human 
resources programs, policies, and operational needs
Principles and practices of project management, program development, and administration
Principles and practices of budget preparation and administration
Ability to:
Provide professional leadership and direction
73 of 891

--- page 74 ---
Develop, implement, and administer goals, objectives, and procedures for providing 
effective and efficient human resources programs and services
Interpret, apply, and explain complex laws, codes, regulations, and ordinances
Plan, organize, direct, and coordinate
Problem-solve confidential, complex and sensitive issues
Research, analyze, and make recommendations
Prepare clear, concise, and accurate written documents and reports
Maintain attention to details and accuracy while meeting critical deadlines  
Interpret and apply Federal, State, and local laws, rules, and regulations
Make sound and independent decisions in day-to-day activities and in emergency situations  
Exercise good judgment, flexibility, creativity, and sensitivity in response to changing 
situations and needs
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing
Make presentations to a variety of audiences, including executives, elected officials, and the 
community 
Establish, maintain, and foster positive and harmonious working relationships with those 
contacted in the course of work
EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING GUIDELINES
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that would provide the required 
knowledge, skills, and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge, 
skills, and abilities would be:
Experience:
Five (5) years of increasingly responsible professional human resources 
management experience in the public sector, including three (3) years of supervisory 
experience.
Education:  
A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course 
work in business administration, public administration, human resources, or closely 
related field. A master’s degree is desirable.
74 of 891

--- page 75 ---
Special Requirements:
Essential duties require the following physical skills and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites 
and locations; ability to make effective presentations to public audiences; conduct 
City business during day and evening hours, including occasional weekend and 
irregular hours.
ADOPTED CC: 
10-18-04
REVISED CC: 
06-15-20, 04-21-25
FORMER TITLES:           ASSISTANT HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
BARGAINING UNIT:      DEPUTY DIRECTORS UNIT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERF. APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT-MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODE:
2099
ABOLISHED: 
75 of 891

--- page 76 ---
Exhibit B
City of San Mateo – Merit Salary Schedule for Adoption by Council on April 21, 2025
Steps
Hourly
Biweekly
Monthly
Annual
Step 1
88.10
7048.00
15,270.37
183,248.00
Step 2
92.50
7400.00
16,033.03
192,400.00
Step 3
97.11
7768.80
16,832.08
201,988.80
Deputy Director of Human Resources (job code 2099)
76 of 891

--- page 77 ---
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR 
 
DEFINITION 
 
Under general direction, assists the Human Resources Director in the administration, planning, and 
coordination of the operations of major functional areas of the Human Resources Department; to assist 
in planning, directing, managing, and overseeing the activities and operations of the Human Resources 
Department;  to coordinates assigned activities with other City departments, divisions, and outside 
agencies; and to provides highly responsible and complex administrative support to the Human 
Resources Director. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
The Deputy Director of Human Resources is a single classification and reports to the Director of 
Human Resources. This position is distinguished from the Senior Human Resources Analyst 
classification in that the Deputy Director of Human Resources performs high-level administrative 
management functions in supporting the HR Director in policy and program development. Whereas 
the Senior Human Resources Analyst performs a wide variety of administrative, analytical, and 
coordination of day-to-day duties in support of the human resources services and programs. The 
Deputy Director of Human Resources classification is distinguished from the Director of Human 
Resources in that the latter has overall administrative oversight, which includes reviewing and 
developing policies and priorities with respect to human resources programs and services.  
 
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED 
 
Exercises direct supervision over professional staff. 
 
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES –Duties may include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
 
Assist in managing the development, and implementation, and evaluation of Human Resources 
Depardepartmental policies, procedures, goals, objectives, policies, and priorities for each assigned 
service area.  
 
Assist in monitoring and evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of human resources services and 
programs, processes, and practices. Assess and monitor workload, staffing levels, and resources. 
Identify opportunities for improvement. 
 
Conduct a variety of organizational and operational studies and investigations, and make 
recommendations.  
77 of 891

--- page 78 ---
City of San Mateo  
Deputy Human Resources Director  
Page 2 of 6 
 
 
 
Coordinate activities between major departmental divisions and/or sections to ensure efficiency and 
effectiveness of departmental operations.  
 
Assist in planning, directing, and coordinating the Human Resources Department's work plan.  
 
Serve as an active member of the City’s negotiation team as assigned.  
 
Represent the Human Resources Department in meetings with to other City departments, elected 
officials and outside agencies; explain and interpret Human Resources Department programs, policies, 
and activities; negotiate and resolve sensitive, significant and controversial issues; and provide advice 
and assistance to management staff regarding personnel matters. 
 
Assist in ensuring compliance with policies, contracts, Federal, State and local human resources 
management regulations; review and analyze reports, legislation, court cases, and related personnel 
matters. 
 
Act as liaison with regulatory agencies to address formal complaints of harassment and discrimination; 
and prepare reports and documents as required.  
 
Select, supervise, train, motivate and evaluate Human Resources Departmentassigned personnel; 
provide or coordinate staff trainingdevelop and implement action plans to address ; work with 
employees to correct deficiencies. 
 
Provide consultation to departmental managers on a variety of human resources matters; discuss 
organizational problems, develop alternatives and strategies for dealing with those problems; and assist 
in implementation of solutions, as necessary.; meet with staff to identify and resolve problems; assign 
projects; review and evaluate work methods and procedures. 
 
Assist in the development and administration of the Human Resources Department budget, including 
the forecast of additional funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies. Assist in 
monitoring and approving expenditures. 
 
Assist with coordinating Human Resources Department activities with those of other departments, 
divisions and outside agencies and organizations; provide staff assistance to the Human Resources 
Director, City Manager, and City Council; prepare and present staff reports and other necessary 
correspondence. 
 
Research, collect, compile, and analyze information from various sources on a variety of specialized 
human resources topics; prepare comprehensive technical records, reports, and summaries to present 
and interpret data, identify alternatives, and make and justify recommendations. 
 
Assist in the development and revisions of City policies, procedures, and programs.   
 
78 of 891

--- page 79 ---
City of San Mateo  
Deputy Human Resources Director  
Page 3 of 6 
 
 
Assist in monitoring legislation and analyzing proposed legislation to determine impact on human 
resources operations and programs. 
 
Prepare and direct the preparation of a variety of written correspondence, reports, procedures, and 
other written materials.  
 
Serve as a liaison with employees, public and private organizations, community groups, and other 
organizations; provide information and assistance regarding human resources programs and services; 
receive and respond to complaints and questions relating to human resources; review problems and 
recommend corrective actions. 
 
Participate on a variety of committees and task forces; attend and participate in professional group 
meetings; stay abreast of new trends and innovations in the field of human resources and benefits. 
 
Assume responsibility for the department's operations in the absence of the Director of Human 
Resources, and as needed. Represents the Director of Human Resources in a variety of meetings and 
committees.  
 
 
 
Perform other related duties and responsibilities as assigned. 
 
 
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS 
 
 
 
 
Knowledge of: 
 
 
Principles, practices, and techniques of human resources in a public agency setting, including 
recruitment, selection, equal employment opportunity, and onboarding; classification and 
compensation; benefit and compensation analysis and administration; workers’ compensation 
and safety; disability laws and leaves; employee development and workforce planning; and 
employee and labor relations, including the interpretation of laws, regulations, policies, and 
procedures  
 
 
 
Principles and practices of public sector labor relations, including effective negotiation 
techniques, grievance resolution methods, and progressive discipline 
 
 
Practices of researching programmatic challenges, evaluating alternatives, making sound 
recommendations, and preparing and presenting effective staff reports   
 
 
 
Applicable Federal, State and local laws, rules, and regulations  
 
 
 
Administrative principles and practices, including goal setting, program development, 
implementation, and evaluation  
 
 
79 of 891

--- page 80 ---
City of San Mateo  
Deputy Human Resources Director  
Page 4 of 6 
 
 
 
Principles and practices of budget development, administration, and accountability  
 
 
Organization and supervisory principles, practices, and techniques  
 
 
Operational characteristics, services and activities of a comprehensive human resources and 
benefits program. 
 
 
Organization and management practices as applied to the analysis and evaluation of human 
resources programs, policies, and operational needs 
 
 
Modern and complexPrinciples and practices of project management, human resources 
program development, and administration 
 
 
Principles of participative leadership and supervision. 
 
 
Principles and practices of collective bargaining and labor relations. 
 
 
Principles and practices of workers’ compensation and safety programs. 
 
 
 
Techniques of recruiting, interviewing, and selecting applicants for employment. 
 
 
Benefits administration principles and concepts. 
 
 
Principles and practices of Project management principles and concepts. 
 
 
Principles and concepts of job evaluation, job analysis, and compensation. 
 
 
Principles and methods of employee development and workforce planning. 
 
 
Principles and practices of budget preparation and administration and administration 
 
 
Pertinent Federal, State, and local laws, codes and regulations. 
 
 
Skill to: 
 
 
 
 
Operate modern office equipment including computer equipment and software. 
 
 
Conduct mathematical and statistical computations. 
 
 
Ability to: 
 
 
PProvide professional leadership and direction for the Human Resources Department. 
 
 
Develop, implement, and administer goals, objectives, and procedures for providing effective 
and efficient human resources programs and services. 
80 of 891

--- page 81 ---
City of San Mateo  
Deputy Human Resources Director  
Page 5 of 6 
 
 
 
 
Interpret, apply, and explain complex laws, codes, regulations, and ordinances 
 
 
Plan, organize, direct, and coordinate the work of professional and technical personnel, 
delegate authority and responsibility. 
 
 
Select, supervise, train and evaluate staff. 
 
 
Effectively identify and respond to customers’ concerns and needs. 
Problem-solve confidential, complex and sensitive issues 
 
 
Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions and 
implement recommendations in support of Human Resources goals. 
 
 
Research, analyze, and make recommendationsevaluate new service delivery methods, 
procedures, and techniques. 
 
 
 
Formulate and administer human resources policies, practices, and procedures. 
 
 
Prepare and administer complex budgets; allocate limited resources in a cost-effective manner. 
 
 
Prepare clear,  and concise, and accurate administrative and Human Resources written 
documents and reports. 
 
 
Maintain attention to details and accuracy while meeting critical deadlines   
 
 
 
Interpret and apply Federal, State, and local laws, rules, and regulations. 
 
 
Make sound and independent decisions in day-to-day activities and in emergency situations   
 
 
 
 
Exercise good judgment, flexibility, creativity, and sensitivity in response to changing 
situations and needs. 
 
 
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
 
 
Make presentations to a variety of audiences, including executives, elected officials, and the 
community  
 
 
Establish, maintain, and foster positive and harmonious working relationships with those 
contacted in the course of work. 
 
 
 
 
81 of 891

--- page 82 ---
City of San Mateo  
Deputy Human Resources Director  
Page 6 of 6 
 
 
 
 
EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING GUIDELINES 
 
 
 
Any combination equivalent to experience and training that would provide the required 
knowledge, skills, and abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge, 
skills, and abilities would be: 
 
 
 
Experience: 
 
 
 
Five (5) years of increasingly responsible professional human resources management 
experience in the public sector, including three (3) years of management supervisory 
experienceresponsibilities. 
 
 
 
Education:   
 
 
 
 
 
A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course work in 
business administration, public administration, human resources, or closely related 
field. A master’s degree is desirable. 
Training: 
 
 
 
Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major 
course work in human resources, public administration, business administration or a 
related field.  A Master’s degree is desirable. 
 
 
License or Certificate: 
 
 
Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate, valid driver's license. 
 
 
 
Special Requirements: 
 
 
Essential duties require the following physical skills and work environment: 
 
 
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites and 
locations; ability to .make effective presentations to public audiences; conduct City 
business during day and evening hours, including occasional weekend and irregular 
hours. 
 
 
ADOPTED CC:  
10-18-04 
REVISED CC:  
06-15-20 
 
FORMER TITLES:           ASSISTANT HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR 
BARGAINING UNIT:      DEPUTY DIRECTORS UNIT 
FLSA:  
 
EXEMPT 
PERF. APPRAISAL: 
MANAGEMENT 
DOT:  
 
NO 
PRE APPT-MEDICAL: 
NO 
SAFETY SENSITIVE: 
NO 
FORM 700:  
YES 
JOB CODE:  
2099 
ABOLISHED:  
82 of 891

--- page 83 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4675
File ID: 25-9836
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Sewer System Management Plan - Update and Recertification
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to recertify the 2025 update of the Sewer System Management Plan.
BACKGROUND:
On December 6, 2022, the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) adopted the General Waste Discharge 
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer System, Water Quality No. 2022-0103-DWQ (Sanitary Sewer System General Order), to 
provide a consistent, statewide regulatory approach to address sanitary sewer spills. The Sanitary Sewer System General 
Order requires public agencies that own or operate sanitary sewer systems to develop and implement a sewer system 
management plan (SSMP) and report all sanitary sewer spills to the State Water Board’s online California Integrated Water 
Quality System (CIWQS) Sanitary Sewer System Database. 
The Statewide Waste Discharge Requirement (WDR) requires that the City develop and adopt an SSMP with the purpose of 
providing proper and efficient management, operation, and maintenance of the City’s sanitary sewer system. The 
Statewide WDR also defines the requirements for Monitoring and Reporting Programs (MRP) for sanitary sewer spills. 
Public Works has completed a three-year audit for the period ending May 2, 2024, as part of this compliance. The audit 
included the submission of an annual report per Statewide WDR Section 5.1, 5.13.2, and Section 3.9, which was submitted 
April 1, 2025. 
The SWRCB has also adopted a new Statewide WDR that supersedes previous orders 2006-0003-DWQ and 2013-0058-
EXEC. As part of this regulatory update, agencies must prepare and certify an updated SSMP every six years, with the next 
update due by May 2, 2025. Staff completed substantial changes to the City’s existing SSMP to align with the latest 
regulatory standards. The revisions include, but are not limited to, updates to the SSMP goals, update/audit schedules, and 
asset updates; clear designation of data submitters; contact information of responsible staff; organizational chart updates; 
communication protocols for spill reporting; legal authority clarifications; data categorization of sewer blockage types; Spill 
Emergency Response Plan updates; updates to the sewer blockage evaluation program; updates for sewer system 
evaluation and capacity assessment approaches for capital improvement program development; updates to meet new 
Adaptive Management requirements to address SSMP implementation effectiveness and improvements; inclusion of audit 
requirements; and clarification of public communication procedures. 
To ensure continued compliance with Statewide General Order 2022-0103-DWQ, staff recommends that the City Council 
adopt a resolution certifying the 2025 Sanitary Sewer System Management Plan. The City Council approved a resolution in 
January 2021 that recertified the previous updated SSMP, and staff completed the required new 2025 update to the 
document, which is now available for review.
83 of 891

--- page 84 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no costs associated with Council adoption of the proposed resolution for recertification of the SSMP. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This City Council action certifying the City’s sewer system management plans, as required by the State Water Resources 
Control Board, is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative activity that will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Draft 2025 Sewer System Management Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Tony Baltodano, Field Maintenance Manager
tbaltodano@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7359
84 of 891

--- page 85 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING THE RECERTIFICATION OF THE SEWER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT PLAN PURSUANT TO STATE WATER 
RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD ORDER NO. 2022-0103-DWQ AND AUTHORIZING PROCESSING OF THE 
RECERTIFICATION
WHEREAS, the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) adopted Order No. 2022-0103-DWQ, 
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems (Statewide WDR) on December 6, 
2022; and
WHEREAS, all federal and state agencies, municipalities, counties, districts and other public entities that 
own or operate sanitary sewer systems greater than one mile in length that collect and/or convey untreated or 
partially treated wastewater to a public-owned treatment facility in the State of California are required to 
comply with the terms of this Order; and
WHEREAS, the General Waste Discharge Requirements of the Statewide WDR require the City to 
develop and adopt a Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) by May 2, 2025, with the purpose of providing 
proper and efficient management, operation, and maintenance of the City's sanitary sewer system in order to 
minimize the number and impact of the sanitary sewer systems throughout the State; and
WHEREAS, the SSMP must include 11 specific elements and must be adopted by the City Council at a 
public meeting; and
WHEREAS, the City Council approved a resolution in January 2021 that recertified the previously 
updated SSMP, and staff have completed the required 2025 update to the 2021 document; and
WHEREAS, the updated 2025 SSMP incorporates all requirements of the Statewide WDR and Amended 
Monitoring and Reporting Program (MRP), and updates contact information for the responsible staff and 
contractors who would provide spill emergency response.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This action certifying the City’s sewer system management plans, as required by the State Water 
Resources Control Board, is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The recertification of the City's Sewer System Management Plan is approved.
3.
The Director of Public Works is authorized to execute documents pertaining to the recertification of 
the City’s Sewer System Management Plan and to process any associated documentation on behalf 
of the City of San Mateo in accordance with State Water Resource Control Board guidelines.
85 of 891

--- page 86 ---
SEWER SYSTEM
MANAGEMENT PLAN
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Updated May 2025
Prepared by
86 of 891

--- page 87 ---
This page left intentionally blank
87 of 891

--- page 88 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS
ELEMENT 1: SEWER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT PLAN GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
i
ii
Introduction
Regulatory Context
1-1
1-2
iii
iv
v
Sewer System Management Plan Update Schedule
Sewer System Asset Overview
Department Organization
1-3
1-3
1-10
ELEMENT 2: ORGANIZATION
2
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
Responsible Divisions
Department of Public Works Organizational Chart
Personnel and Responsibility
Chain of Communication for Spill Reporting
Emergency Contact Personnel
Appendix 2 – Supporting Documents for Element 2
2-1
2-2
2-7
2-10
2-11
2-12
ELEMENT 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
3.1
3.2
General
3-1
3-1
3-1
3-2
3-2
3-3
3-3
3-3
3-3
3-5
3-5
Sewer Use Code Required Elements
i. Prevent Illicit Discharges
ii. Collaborate with Storm Sewer Agencies
iii. Require Proper Design, Construction, and Maintenance
iv. Ensure Access for Maintenance, Inspection, and Repairs
v. Enforce Violations of Sewer Ordinances & Collect Penalties
vi. Obtain Easement Accessibility Agreements
Ownership and Maintenance of Sewers
Sewer Use Fees
3.3
3.4
3.5
Appendix 3 – Supporting Documents for Element 3
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
Estero Municipal Improvement District Agreement
1989 Town of Hillsborough, CSCSD, County of San Mateo Sewer Agreement
2022 Town of Hillsborough Capital Cost Agreement
2024 CSCSD and County of San Mateo Capital Cost Agreement
City of Belmont Agreement
ELEMENT 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
4
4.1
Collection System Maps and Information
4.1.1 
Information Management
4.1.1.i. 
Utility Underground Maps
4-1
4-1
4-1
4-1
4-2
4-3
4-3
4-3
4-4
4-7
4-7
4-8
4.1.1.ii
GIS Computer Mapping Program
4.1.1.iii 
CMMS Cartegraph
4.1.2 Map Update and Maintenance Procedures
Preventive Operation and Maintenance
4.2.1 
Overview
4.2.2 
Citywide Routine Sewer Cleaning and CWP Cleaning and CCTV
4.2.3 
Target Cleaning of Problem Areas
4.2.4 
Cleaning Procedures
4.2
4.2.5 
Collection System Performance
Last Update: May 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
88 of 891

--- page 89 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
4.3
Rehabilitation and Replacement Plan
4-8
4-8
4-9
4.3.1 
Condition Assessment And Inspection
4.3.2 
Prioritization Of Repair and Rehabilitation
4.3.3 
Five Year Rehabilitation And Replacement Program
Pump Station Maintenance
Private Lateral Cost Sharing Program
Sewer Maintenance Staff Training
4-9
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4-10
4-11
4-12
4-13
Appendix 4 – Supporting Documents for Element 4
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
CCTV Standards
Sewer Pipe Cleaning Standard Operating Procedures
Pumpstations Maintenance and Equipment
Sewer Maintenance Crew Training
Manhole Inspection Program
“Hot-Spots” & Leak Detection Program
Sewer Maintenance Dedicated Equipment and Personnel
Collection System Maps and Information
4.8.A.i Underground Utilities Map Page
4.8.A.ii Sewer Pumpstations and Trunklines Map
4.8.A.iii Sewer Collection System Pipe Sizes
4.8.A.iv Sewer Collection System Terrain Map
4.8.A.v Sewer Collection System Basin Map
4.8.A.vi Sewer Collection System Subbasin Map
4.8.A.vii Sewer Collection System Cleaning Areas Map (Current Snapshot)
4.8.A.viii Sewer District Cleaning Schedule Maps (Current Snapshot)
4.8.A.ix Sewer Root Foaming Schedule Map
ELEMENT 5: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE PROVISIONS
5.1
5.2
5.3
Standards for Installation, Rehabilitation, and Repair
Standards for Inspection & Testing of New, Rehabilitated, and Repaired Facilities
Appendix 5 – Supporting Documents for Element 5
5-1
5-1
5-1
ELEMENT 6: OVERFLOW AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.1
6.2
6.3
Purpose
Statewide WDR Requirement
Spill Categories
6-1
6-1
6-3
6.4
Incident Notification
6-5
6.5
Role of Responders
6-7
6.6
6.7
Designated Emergency Responders
Spill Response Equipment
6-7
6-8
6.8
Field Procedures
6-8
6.9
Sewage Estimation
Water Quality Sampling and Analysis
Spill Technical Report
Spill Response Within Private Property
Investigation and Documentation Procedure
Post-Spill Analysis
6-10
6-10
6-12
6-13
6-15
6-15
6-17
6-17
6-18
6-18
6-19
6-19
6.10
6.11
6.12
6.13
6.14
6.15
Documentation
6.15.1 Spill Event Complaints
6.15.2 Recordkeeping of Category 4 Spills
6.15.3 Recordkeeping for Total Annual Spill Information
6.15.4 Sewer System Telemetry Records
6.15.5 Sewer System Management Plan Implementation Records
Last Update: May 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
89 of 891

--- page 90 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
6.15.6 Audit Records
6.15.7 Equipment Records (List)
6.15.8 Work Orders
6.15.9 Spill Specific Monitoring (Documentation)
Regulatory Reporting
6.16.1 Multiple Appearance Points – Single Spill
6.16.2 2-Hour Notification to Regulatory Agencies of Spills
6.16.3 Notification of Spill Report Updates
6.16.4 Detailed Reporting Requirements
6.16.5 CIWQS Not Available
6.16.6 Amending Spill Reports
6.16.7 CIWQS – Electronic Reporting to State Water Board
Spill Response Training
6-19
6-19
6-19
6-19
6-20
6-25
6-25
6-26
6-26
6-30
6-31
6-31
6-33
6-33
6-33
6-33
6-33
6.16
6.17
6.18
6.19
6.20
6.21
Initial and Annual Refresher Training
Spill Response Drills
Spill Training Record Keeping
Appendix 6 – Supporting Documents for Element 6
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
Contingency Equipment
Spill Field Procedures
Investigation and Documentation Forms
Spill Calculation and Estimation
Signage and Posting Procedures
Water Quality Monitoring Program
Spill Technical Report Template
ELEMENT 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
7.6
7.7
Background
Public Education Outreach
FOG Disposal
7-1
7-2
7-3
7-3
7-5
7-5
7-6
7-6
7-7
7-7
7-8
Legal Authority
Grease Removal Device Requirements
Best Management Practices
Inspection and Enforcement Procedures
7.7.1 
Inspection
7.7.2 
Enforcement Actions
Service Area FOG Evaluation
Appendix 7 – Supporting Documents for Element 7
7.8
7.9
7.1.A 
Outreach Materials (commercial & residential)
7.1.B 
Waste Discharge Permit (WDP)
7.1.C 
WDP Standard Terms, Conditions & Requirements
7.1.D 
Best Management Practices for Food Services Facilities
7.1.E 
Pretreatment System Maintenance Log
7.1.F 
Waste Discharge Permits Q & A’s
7.1.G 
Inspection Form – Food Service Facility
7.1.H 
Preventative Maintenance: FOG Hot Spots (Schedule and Map)
7.1.I
List of FSEs and Grease Removal Device Cleaning Frequency
ELEMENT 8: SYSTEM EVALUATION AND CAPACITY ASSURANCE PLAN
8
8.1
8.2
Background
8-1
8-2
Project Drivers and Capacity Assessment Criteria
Last Update: May 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
90 of 891

--- page 91 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS
8.3
8.4
8.5
System Evaluation and Capacity Assessment
Capital Improvement Program Budget And Schedule
Appendix 8 – Supporting Documents for Element 8
8-3
8-3
8-3
ELEMENT 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5
Adaptive Management
Data Collection
Data Reporting
Sanitary Sewer Spills
9-1
9-2
9-3
9-3
9-5
Appendix 9 – Supporting Documents for Element 9
ELEMENT 10: SSMP PROGRAM AUDITS
10.1
10.2
Summary
10-1
10-2
Appendix 10 – Supporting Documents for Element 10
10.1
10.2
10.3
SSMP Change Log
SSMP Audit Blank Form
Recent SSMP Audit Report
ELEMENT 11: COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
11.1
11.2
11.3
11.4
11.5
Sewer Fees and Sewer Fund
11-1
11-1
11-2
11-2
11-2
Private Sewer Lateral Cost Sharing Program
Sewer Maintenance Public Outreach
FOG Program Outreach
Appendix 11 – Supporting Documents for Element 11
Last Update: May 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
91 of 891

--- page 92 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CCTV
CIP
Closed-Circuit Television
Capital Improvement Plan
CITY
City of San Mateo
CIWQS
CMMS
CWP
DPW
EHS
California Integrated Water Quality System
Computerized Maintenance Management System
Clean Water Program
Department of Public Works
Environmental Health Services
Estero Municipal Improvement District
Fats, Oils and Grease
EMID
FOG
FSE
Food Service Establishments
GIS
Geographical Information System
Gallons per Minute
GPM
GWDR
I&I
Statewide General Waste Discharge Requirements
Inflow & Infiltration
LRO
Legally Responsible Official
NASSCO
NPDES
SERP
OES
National Association of Sewer System Companies
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
Spill Emergency Response Plan
California Office of Emergency Services (Previously Cal-EMA)
Pipeline Assessment and Certification Program
Preventive Maintenance
PACP
PM
PPE
Personal Protective Equipment
RWQCB
SSMP
Spill
Regional Water Quality Control Board
Sewer System Management Plan
Sanitary Sewer Spill
SPB
Sewer Pipe Blockage
SWRCB
WDR
WWTP
State Water Resources Control Board
General Waste Discharge Requirements, also called the Statewide WDR
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Last Update: May, 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
92 of 891

--- page 93 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
LIST OF TERMS
Blockage – An object that partially or fully hinders flow through a sewer pipeline. The
blockage can be caused by debris in the sewer, grease buildup, root intrusion, or a partial
or full collapse of the pipeline. Also known as a stoppage.
California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) – A computer system used by the
State and Regional Water Quality Control Boards to track information about SSOs, among
other information. CIWQS is the tool used for online submittal of SSO details, which are
then made available to the public. Website: http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/ciwqs/
Enrollee – The legal public entity that owns a sanitary sewer system, as defined by the
Statewide WDR. Also known as a sewer system agency or wastewater collection system
agency.
FOG Control Program –Program implemented at the discretion of the agency, based on
the identified causes of sewer overflows, to reduce the discharge of fats, oils and grease
into the sewer system.
Geographic Information System (GIS) – A database linked with mapping that records
sewer system information. The GIS database could include sewer features such as pipe
location, diameter, material, condition, or last date cleaned or repaired. GIS maps also
typically contain base information such as streets and parcels.
Infiltration – The seepage of groundwater into a sewer system, including from service
connections. Seepage frequently occurs through defective or cracked pipes, pipe joints,
connections or manhole walls and joints.
Inflow – Water discharged into a sewer system from such sources as roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, through holes in manhole covers, cross
connections from the storm system or street wash waters. Inflow differs from infiltration in
that it is a direct discharge into the sewer rather than a leak through defects in the sewer.
Lateral or Private Lateral – The privately-owned sewer pipeline that conveys wastewater
from the premises of a user to the City’s sewer system. The upper lateral extends from the
building to property line (or easement line). The lower lateral extends from the property or
easement line to the connection to the City-owned sewer main pipe.
Spill Emergency Response Plan (SERP) – This document identifies measures that are
needed to respond to sanitary sewer overflows in a way that maximizes the protection of
public health and the environment.
Rehabilitation and Replacement Plan (also referred to as a Capital Improvement Plan) –
Identifies and prioritizes system deficiencies and implements short-term and long-term
rehabilitation actions to address each deficiency.
San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board – Also known as Region 2 or
RWQCB. This regulatory agency preserves, enhances and restores the quality of
California's water resources, and ensures their proper allocation and efficient use for the
benefit of present and future generations. Website:
http://www.waterboards.ca.gov/sanfranciscobay
Spill- A spill is a discharge of sewage from any portion of a sanitary sewer system due
to a sanitary sewer system overflow, operational failure, and/or infrastructure failure.
Last Update: May, 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
93 of 891

--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
Exfiltration of sewage is not considered to be a spill under this General Order if the
exfiltrated sewage remains in the subsurface and does not reach a surface water of
the State.
Sanitary Sewer System – Any system of pipes, pump stations, sewer lines, or other
conveyances, upstream of a wastewater treatment plant headworks used to collect and
convey wastewater to the wastewater treatment plant.
Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) – A series of written programs that address
how a collection system owner/operator conducts daily business. Each SSMP is unique
for an individual discharger. The plan includes provisions to provide proper and efficient
management, operation, and maintenance of sanitary sewer systems, while taking into
consideration risk management and cost benefit.
State Water Resources Control Board – Also called the State Board. This agency
developed and passed the Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements for collection
systems and maintains the SSO reporting web site.
System Evaluation and Capacity Assurance Plan – A required component of an agency’s
SSMP that provides hydraulic capacity of key sanitary sewer system elements for dry
weather peak flow conditions, as well as the appropriate design storm or wet weather
event.
Statewide Waste Discharge Requirements – The Statewide General Waste Discharge
Requirements for Sanitary Sewer Systems was adopted by the SWCRB in 2006 to
provide a structure and guidance for SSMP development. Initially known as Order No.
2006-0003-DWQ, this Order has was replaced in May 2023 by the current order..
Waters of the State – Waters of the State are surface water or groundwater within
boundaries of the state as defined in Water Code section 13050(e). They include, but
are not limited to, groundwater aquifers, surface waters, saline waters, natural washes
and pools, wetlands, sloughs, and estuaries, regardless if flow or water exists during
dry conditions. Waters of the State include waters of the United States.
Waters of the United States – Waters of the United States are surface waters or
waterbodies that are subject to federal jurisdiction in accordance with the Clean Water
Act.
Wastewater Collection System – See Sanitary Sewer System.
Last Update: May, 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
94 of 891

--- page 95 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May, 2025
City of San Mateo SSMP
ACRONYMS AND TERMS
95 of 891

--- page 96 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
ELEMENT 1: SSMP GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
i.
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the City of San Mateo’s Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) is to
provide a plan and schedule to:
•
Properly manage, operate, and maintain all parts of the City’s sanitary sewer
system
•
•
•
Reduce and prevent sanitary sewer spills
Contain and mitigate spills that do occur
Maintain and improve the condition of the collection system infrastructure in order
to provide reliable service into the future
Objectives of City’s Sewer Maintenance Preventative Maintenance Program include:
1.
Implement Preventative Maintenance on the collection system to minimize
spills.
a. Clean sewer mainlines within the identified required maintenance period
b. Continue with scheduled preventative maintenance cleaning of identified
sewer mainline target (problem) areas
c. Maintain a video-based sewer collection condition assessment program
d. Maintain Root Control Program and conduct root-foaming of identified
areas on a rotating basis
e. Refer mainlines with repeat non-scheduled maintenance to engineering for
evaluation
f. Conduct appropriate analysis/evaluation of spills utilizing historical
maintenance and activity data and records and provide recommendations
to reduce future risk
2.
Identify collection system blockages and develop strategies to decrease
backups.
3.
4.
Mitigate the impact of spills on public health and the environment.
Operate pump stations efficiently and perform required preventive
maintenance on equipment at all sanitary sewer pump stations.
5.
6.
Maintain records of the sanitary sewer system and respond to inquiries.
Assist with the development of a capital improvement program directed at
maintaining the current sewer assets, improving system reliability and
providing adequate future capacity.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
96 of 891

--- page 97 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
7.
Be available and responsive to the needs of the public and work cooperatively
with local, state, and federal agencies to reduce, mitigate impacts of, and
properly report spills.
ii.
REGULATORY CONTEXT
This SSMP has been prepared by City of San Mateo Department of Public Works staff in
compliance with requirements of the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control
Board (RWQCB) and State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) pursuant to
Section 13267 of the California Water Code.
The SSMP is intended to meet the requirements of the Statewide General Waste
Discharge Requirements General Order for Sanitary Sewers (GWDR), Order No. 2022-
0103-DWQ.
The SSMP provides a general description of the City’s sewer system management
program and discusses SSMP implementation and updates. Per the GWDR, this SSMP
has been adopted by City Council, uploaded to the California Integrated Water Quality
System (CIWQS), and posted on the City’s website on or prior to May 2, 2025.
The SSMP includes eleven elements as listed below. Each of these elements forms a
section of this document.
SSMP ELEMENTS
1. SSMP Goal and Introduction.
2. Organization
3. Legal Authority
4. Operations and Maintenance Program
5. Design and Performance Provisions
6. Spill Emergency Response Plan
7. Sewer Pipe Blockage Control Program
8. System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance, and Capital Improvements
9. Monitoring, Measurement, and Program Modifications
10. Internal Audits
11. Communication Program
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
97 of 891

--- page 98 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
iii.
SEWER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT PLAN UPDATE SCHEDULE
Table iii.1 presents a schedule for Plan updates, including the schedule for
conducting internal audits. The schedule includes milestones for incorporation of
activities addressing prevention of sewer spills.
Table iii.1. SSMP – Required Elements and Dates of Original Submittal/Adopted
SSMP Update
REQUIRED DATE OF
SUBMITTAL
ACTUAL COMPLETION
DATE
UPDATE
3-Year SSMP Audit ending
August 2, 2024
February 2, 2025
May 2, 2025
February 2, 2025
May 2, 2025
2025 SSMP Update
including audit findings
3-Year SSMP Audit ending
August 2, 2027
February 2, 2028
May 2, 2028
Incorporation of 8/2/27
audit findings
3-Year SSMP Audit ending
August 2, 2030
February 2, 2031
May 2, 2031
2031 SSMP Update
including audit findings
3-Year SSMP Audit ending
August 2, 2033
Incorporation of 8/2/33
audit findings
February 2, 2034
May 2, 2034
3-Year SSMP Audit ending
August 2, 2036
February 2, 2037
2037 SSMP Update
including audit findings
May 2, 2037
iv.
SEWER SYSTEM ASSET OVERVIEW
The City of San Mateo (City) is located in San Mateo County at the crossroads of Highway
101 and Highway 92. The City is situated with the City and County of San Francisco to
the north, the City of San Jose to the south, and San Francisco Bay to the east. Figure
iii.1 shows the City’s service area boundary and sewer assets.1
The City of San Mateo at a glance:
•
The San Francisco to San Jose railroad track was completed in 1864 with its first service
through San Mateo on October 17, 1863
•
The first volunteer fire department was officially organized on March 18, 1889
1 Additional information on the City’s asset maps and computerized maintenance management
system, Cartegraph, is included in Element 4, Operations and Maintenance program.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
98 of 891

--- page 99 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
•
•
•
•
The City was incorporated on September 3, 1894
Incorporated area is 13 square miles
The wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) has been operating since 1935
Current population of the City of San Mateo (2020 Census) is 105,661 residents.
The service area includes population outside of the City limits.
•
•
The service area is built-out and mostly residential, single and multi-family, with
some commercial business areas and a small amount of light industrial uses
Temperatures vary from a mean average of 49 degrees Fahrenheit in January to a
mean average of 72 degrees Fahrenheit in July. The mean annual rainfall is 13.4
inches.
Figure iii.1. City of San Mateo
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
99 of 891

--- page 100 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
The Department of Public Works (DPW) provides stewardship of the City’s sanitary sewer
assets. These include 230 miles of collection system mainlines, 5,789 manholes, 25
sewer lift stations, 11.6 miles of forcemains, and a 15.7 million gallon per day (MGD)
WWTP. The system also includes three siphons. The City does not own or operate any
private laterals, other than sewer laterals that serve the City’s facilities. The private lateral
begins at the building foundation and continues to and includes the connection to the
public sewer main. There are no known structures that divert stormwater to the sanitary
sewer system.
DPW is responsible for meeting the required level of service, including all permit
requirements, in the most cost effective way through engineering, construction,
maintenance, operation and rehabilitation of sanitary sewer assets to provide for present
and future customers. The City’s sanitary sewer collection system is predominantly made
of vitrified clay pipe and the majority of the system was built in the mid-1900s. The
collected water is conveyed to the WWTP for treatment and disposal.
The sanitary service area includes the City and receives flow from portions of the Town of
Hillsborough, City of Belmont, County of San Mateo, the Crystal Springs Sanitation
District, and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (EMID) (Figure iii.2). Sanitary flows
from these neighboring agencies and municipalities enter the City’s collection system at
the jurisdictional boundaries and are conveyed for treatment at the WWTP. In total, the
City handles sanitary flows from a population of 170,000 (2019 estimate). The distribution
of service connections is approximately 96 percent residential, 3 percent commercial, 0.6
percent industrial, and 0.4 percent other.
On July 18, 1989, the City entered into a Sanitary Sewage Agreement between the Town
of Hillsborough, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and the County of San
Mateo, which sets forth the arrangements and relationships regarding the use of the City’s
sewage conveyance and treatment facilities. A separate agreement was developed for the
City of Belmont. A 2022 Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the Town of
Hillsborough establishes capital cost sharing obligations between the parties. A 2024
Agreement between the City of San Mateo, CSCSD, and the County establishes capital
cost sharing obligations between the parties. The agreements are included in SSMP
Appendix 3.3. The neighboring agencies are responsible for the ownership and
maintenance of their sanitary collection systems and pay for the sanitary flows that are
discharged into the City’s collection system for conveyance and treatment at the WWTP.
EMID conveys sanitary flows from its collection system directly to the WWTP. The WWTP
is a jointly owned facility - approximately 75% is owned by the City and approximately
25% is owned by the EMID. The ownership agreement is through a joint powers
agreement (JPA) that is included in the SSMP Appendix as Appendix 3.3.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
100 of 891

--- page 101 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
Figure iii.2. City of San Mateo Service Area
Sanitary Sewer Collection System Assets
Tables iii.1 through iii.6 provide information about the City’s sewer collection system
assets. Some totals may not be exact due to rounding.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
101 of 891

--- page 102 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
Table iii.1. Size and Distribution of Active Sewers
Forcemain
Length
(feet)
Total
Length
(feet)
Total
Length
(miles)
Gravity Sewer
Length (feet)
Percentage
of Total
Pipe Size
UNK
562
1,939
699,496
277,381
67,069
39,133
371
17
1,690
796
579
3,629
0.1
0.7
132.6
53.3
13.7
8.6
2.1
6.9
0.1
6.2
1.4
2.3
2.7
1.7
3.5
1.3
1
0.0%
0.3%
54.9%
22.1%
5.7%
3.6%
0.9%
2.9%
0.0%
2.6%
0.6%
1.0%
1.1%
0.7%
1.4%
0.5%
0.4%
0.4%
0.0%
1.0%
100%
4
6
8
700,292
281,656
72,599
45,264
11,093
36,677
492
4,275
5,530
6,131
10,722
0
10
12
14
15
36,677
492
16
0
18
32,649
0
0
32,649
7,205
20
7,205
4,119
0
21
7,968
14,425
8,837
13,597
4,061
4,520
5,018
120
12,087
14,425
8,837
24
27
0
30
4,797
2,553
548
18,394
6,614
33
36
5,068
39
0
5,018
1
48
0
120
0.02
2.5
241.7
54 (outfall)
Total
Notes:
0
13,109
61,490
13,109
1,275,804
1,214,314
(1) Quantities were taken from City’s GIS maps. Total length shown in this table
includes gravity sewer, forcemains, and outfall owned by the City. The outfall total is
not included in the total length of gravity collector sewer assets.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 7
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
102 of 891

--- page 103 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
Table iii.2. Distribution of Gravity and Forced Sewers
Percentage of
System (by
length)
4.8
Length
(miles)
Pipe
Length (feet)
Forced
Gravity
TOTAL
61,490
1,214,314
1,275,804
11.6
230
241.6
95.2
100%
Table iii.3. Distribution of Sewer Mainlines in a Right-of-Way Versus Easement
Percentage of
Pipe
Length (feet)
Length (miles)
System (by
length)
70%
Right-of-way
Easement
TOTAL
898,519
377,285
1,275,804
170.2
71.4
241.6
30%
100%
Table iii.4. Breakdown of Sewer Collection System by Age
Length
(miles)
Percentage of System
Pipe Age
Length (feet)
(by length)
2020 – present
2000 – 2019
1980 – 1999
1960 – 1979
1940 – 1959
1920 – 1939
1900 – 1919
Unknown
19,743.6
54,275.9
56,323.1
202,453.3
607,668.3
254,788.3
52,791.3
27,760.5
1,275,804
3.7
10.3
10.7
38.3
115.
48.2
9.9
2%
4%
4%
16%
48%
20%
4%
2%
100%
5.3
241.6
TOTAL
Table iii.5. Breakdown of Sewer Collection System by Age & Type, & Pump Stations
Length (miles)
Gravity Sewer
2.8
Length (feet)
Gravity Sewer
14,774
Length (feet)
Forcemain
4,969
Number of
Pump Stations
0
Pipe Age
2020 – present
2000 – 2019
1980 - 1999
1960 - 1979
1940 - 1959
1920 - 1939
Before 1919
Unknown
9.6
50,431
3,845
2,227
20,250
11,042
8,195.4
0
5
6
9
4
1
0
0
25
10.2
34.5
113
46.7
10
54,096
182,203
596,626
246,593
52,791.3
16,799
3.2
230
10,962
61,490
TOTAL
1,214,314
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 8
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
103 of 891

--- page 104 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
Table iii.6. Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Names and Capacity
Est.
Capacity:
Pumps GPM per
Pump
Est. Daily
Capacity
(Gallons w/
One Pump)
Total
Dynamic
Head
Est. Daily
Flow*
(GPD)
#
Station
Address
01 Mongini
2005 Pacific
20 Arroyo
3
2
2
2
900
400
50
15
30
90
80
669,600
80,400
10,350
5,400
1,296,000
576,000
72,000
02 Arroyo
03 Parkwood
04 Toyon
1932 Parkwood
1629 Toyon
50
72,000
3796 El Camino
Real
05 38th Ave
2
2
2
1200
1000
750
46
28
36
127,200
26,960
1,728,000
1,440,000
86,000
06 42nd Ave
07 Woodbridge
1 42nd Ave
95 Woodbridge
Circle
123,620
08 Santa Clara
404 Santa Clara
3000 Los Prados
3160 Los Prados
3301 Los Prados
2413 S. Norfolk
2223 Kehoe
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
1000
760
365
250
700
200
200
100
30
45
21
8
720,000
307,800
105,120
63,000
281,000
98,000
24,000
10,800
8,400
1,440,000
1,094,400
525,600
360,000
1,008,000
288,000
288,000
144,000
43,200
09 Los Prados #1
10 Los Prados #2
11 Los Prados #3
12 Flint & Norfolk
13 Kehoe & Kelly
14 Kehoe & Scott
15 2nd & Quebec
16 Chatham East
10.5
15
10
10
13
12
48
2444 Kehoe
203 S. Quebec
205 N. Quebec
17 Mariners Island #1 408 Anchor
635 Mariners
120
16,560
172,800
18 Mariners Island #2
3
2
2
1,400
450
75
32
5
1,044,000 
2,016,000
Island
19 Mariners Island #3 894 Neptune
64,800
648,000
Mariners Island
Blvd / W. Cape
1659 Vista Del
20 Mariners Island #4
1000
114,000
1,440,000
21 Mariners Island #5 Mar (1801 M.I.
Blvd)
2
2
300
295
15
109,800
54,870
432,000
424,800
2021 Winward
22 Mariners Island #6 
Way (2001
Gateway)
11.5
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 9
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
104 of 891

--- page 105 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
Est.
Capacity:
Pumps GPM per
Pump
Est. Daily
Total
Dynamic
Head
Est. Daily
Flow*
(GPD)
#
Capacity
(Gallons w/
One Pump)
Station
Address
23 41st Ave
3971 Pacific Blvd
2
5
1851
51
81
230,280
1,728,000
Dale Ave /
Patricia
24 Dale Ave
13,194
8,090,000 19,000,000
584,520 
936,000
28th Ave/
Saratoga Dr
25 Bay Meadows
3
650
95
* Estimated Daily flow is based on pump run-times, gpm of station, in dry weather (24 hr
period).
The 25 sanitary sewer pump stations are located at various locations in the City to assist
in the conveyance of wastewater to the WWTP. Pumps are programmed to alternate
between lead and lag mode. Wet well operations are set to limit pump starts and stops
and in-line storage of wet weather flows occurs automatically. Power outages occur
infrequently and average about four per year. Seven portable generators (exercised under
load annually) are assigned specifically to the pump crew for use in power outage
situations. There are also nine onsite backup generators that were added during the
rehabilitation of nine sanitary sewer pump stations.
Flint & Norfolk, Dale, and Bay Meadows pump stations receive most of the flow from the
City’s sewer collection system. The Dale Avenue pump station is operated and maintained
by WWTP staff. Flows received by Dale Avenue pump station are delivered to the WWTP
via one 30” and one 33” forcemain.
v.
DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
DPW is comprised of several divisions. The divisions that engage in the updating of the
SSMP on an on-going basis include Sewer Engineering, Field Maintenance, Data
Management, WWTP, and Regulatory Compliance. Details about the organizational
structure can be found in Element 2, “Organization,” of this SSMP.
Last Update: May 2025
1 - 10
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 1: GOAL AND INTRODUCTION
105 of 891

--- page 106 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
ELEMENT 2: ORGANIZATION
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
The Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) must identify
•
The name of the Legally Responsible Official as required in Section 5.1 of the
GWDR;
•
The position titles, telephone numbers, and email addresses for management,
administrative, and maintenance positions responsible for implementing specific
measures in the SSMP elements;
•
•
Organizational lines of authority through an organization chart or similar
narrative document; and
The chain of communication for reporting spills, from receipt of a complaint or
other information, including the person responsible for reporting spills to the
State and Regional Water Board and other agencies if applicable (such as
County Health Officer, County Environmental Health Agency, and/or State
Office of Emergency Services (OES)).
2.1
RESPONSIBLE DIVISIONS
The DPW has several divisions that are responsible for operating, maintaining, and
improving the City’s sewer collection system, which include:
•
Sewer Engineering, also known as Clean Water Program (CWP): encompasses
the capital improvements to the sanitary sewer collection system and wastewater
treatment plant necessary to replace aging infrastructure, provide wet weather
capacity assurance, meet current and future regulatory requirements, and align
with the City’s sustainability goals.
•
Field Maintenance: comprised of specialized programs to maintain the City’s
streets, flood control, and sewer collection infrastructure. This division provides
repair and maintenance of streets, bridges, sidewalks, bike paths, signs and
markings, sewer collection infrastructure, and storm drains; services all traffic
signals and street lights; and provides street sweeping services.
•
•
Data Management: responsible for the development of the Department’s asset
management platform and for building and maintaining the City’s infrastructure
database.
WWTP: includes the administration, management, operation, and maintenance of
the facility. As a sub-regional facility, the WWTP provides treatment of sanitary
sewage from neighboring communities, and is partially owned by Estero Municipal
Improvement District. The WWTP protects the public health and water
environment of the community by providing high quality wastewater treatment
services in compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Last update: May, 2025
2 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
106 of 891

--- page 107 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
permit, and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program as required by the State
Industrial General Permit (IGP).
•
Regulatory Compliance: manages and implements programs and provides
compliance oversight to meet all regulatory requirements for wastewater,
stormwater, solid waste, and air quality.
2.2
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (DPW) ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Figure 2-1 on the following page includes DPW’s Organizational Chart as of March 2025.
More information on the City’s organization is included in the 2024-2026 business plan,
which can be found here:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/96238/Adopted-Budget_2024-
26_Online
Last update: May, 2025
2 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
107 of 891

--- page 108 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
Last update: May, 2025
2 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
108 of 891

--- page 109 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
This page left intentionally blank
Last update: May, 2025
2 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
109 of 891

--- page 110 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
Management Analyst I/
Deputy Director
Wastewater Treatment
Last update: May 2025
2 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
110 of 891

--- page 111 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
Data Management
Project Manager I/II
Last update: May 2025
2 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
111 of 891

--- page 112 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
2.3
PERSONNEL AND RESPONSIBILITY
The following descriptions define the role of the Council and staff as related to the SSMP.
CITY COUNCIL
Establishes policy.
CITY MANAGER
Assists in the development, planning and implementation of goals and objectives related
to the overall administrative activities and operations of the City; Administers City policies
and procedures. Reports to the City Council.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS, 650-522-7303
Assists in the development, planning and implementation of goals and objectives related
to the Public Works Department. Administers Departmental policies and procedures.
Reports to the City Manager.
DEPUTY DIRECTORS OF PUBLIC WORKS
The DPW has two Deputy Directors. Each Deputy Director manages four department
divisions, plans O&M strategies, leads staff, allocates resources, and delegates
responsibilities; perform and/or manage professional engineering work in the design,
investigation, and construction of public works and related projects; acts as project
manager in assigned capital projects and does related work as required; participates in
the planning, checking, review, and processing of plans; develops revised design and
construction standards; and administers and enforces City Codes and standards on
engineering projects.
Both Deputy Directors Reports to the Director of Public Works. The divisions assigned to
each Deputy Director, along with phone numbers, are as follows:
650-522-7303 manages the Field Maintenance, Regulatory Compliance, Capital
Improvement Projects, and Transportation divisions.
650-522-7309 manages Sewer Engineering (Clean Water Program), WWTP, Fleet
and Facilities, and Data Management divisions.
FIELD MAINTENANCE MANAGER, 650-522-7359
Manages collection system field operations and maintenance activities, provides relevant
information to management; prepares contingency plans. Investigates spills and plans
strategy to minimize non-capacity related repeat spills. Responsible for implementing,
managing and updating the SSMP. Reports to the Deputy Director of the Field
Maintenance Division. Legally Responsible Official.
PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR, SEWER, 650-522-7373
The DPW has two Public Works Sewer Supervisors. Each supervisor recommends and
assists in the implementation of program goals and objectives and standard operating
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 7
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
112 of 891

--- page 113 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
procedures. Organizes and supervises crews of skilled and semi-skilled personnel.
Reports to the Field Maintenance Manager.
SEWER MAINTENANCE LEADWORKERS, 650-522-7286
Directs preventative maintenance activities, trains field crews, and prepares and
implements contingency plans. Reports to the Public Works Supervisor.
MAINTENANCE WORKERS, 650-522-7300
Operates maintenance equipment and tools. Installs and repairs underground pipes and
removes blockages from sewer. Performs routine preventative maintenance on equipment
used for sewer operations. Assists pump crew when needed. Performs emergency
response on sewer related issues. Reports to the Sewer Leadworker.
PUMP LEAD MECHANIC, 650-477-5681
Directs preventative maintenance activities for pump stations, trains pump mechanics,
and prepare contingency plans. Reports to the Public Works Supervisor.
PUMP MECHANIC, 650-522-7356
Responsible for maintenance and operations of the City’s lift stations; implements
preventative maintenance at pump stations and provides 24-hour emergency response.
Reports to the Public Works Supervisor.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE MANAGER, 650-522-7385
Coordinates permits, laws, and regulations related to stormwater management and
pretreatment programs; manages FOG program. Reports to the Deputy Director of the
Regulatory Compliance Section.
ENGINEERING MANAGER – CLEAN WATER PROGRAM, 650-522-7287
Responsible for planning and overseeing the sewer collection system capital
improvements. Participates in the planning, checking, review, and processing of plans.
Develops revised design and construction standards. Enforces City Codes and standards
on engineering projects. Reports to the Deputy Director of the Sewer Engineering (Clean
Water Program) division.
DATA MANAGEMENT PROJECT MANAGER, 650-522-7312
Responsible for the management of the computerized maintenance management system
(CMMS) and ensures sewer maintenance activities are captured electronically in the
CMMS. Reports to the Deputy Director of the Data Management division.
Table 2-1 on the following page lists the responsible staff person for each of the SSMP
Elements.
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 8
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
113 of 891

--- page 114 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
Table 2-1. List of City Staff Responsible for SSMP Elements
SSMP Element
I. Goals
Responsible Position
The City Manager leads staff in the implementation of the
City’s goals. The Deputy Directors lead their respective
divisions in meeting SSMP goals.
II. Organization
The Deputy Directors recommend updates to the Public
Works Director and City Manager related to the
organizational structure.
III.Legal Authority
The City Manager upholds the City Ordinance.
IV.Operations &
Maintenance
The Deputy Directors manage the City’s sewer-related
resources and budget. The Field Maintenance Manager,
under direction of the Deputy Director, manages the
outreach program; prioritizes preventive maintenance;
maintains a current collection system map; and schedules
inspections and condition assessments. The Field
Maintenance Manager maintains contingency equipment
and replacement inventories and schedules sewer-related
training.
V. Design and
Construction
Standards
The Engineering Manager – Clean Water Program
develops design and construction documents related to
the City’s sewer collection system, ensures that all
projects meet the City’s standards, and also updates
standards for installation, rehabilitation and repair, as
needed. The Engineering Manager manages the
inspection of all construction projects to ensure the City’s
construction standards have been followed. All projects
receive final approval by the Public Works Director.
VI.Overflow Emergency
Response Plan
The Field Maintenance Manager maintains the Overflow
Emergency Response Plan. The Sewer Maintenance
Supervisor implements the plan, makes revisions, and
oversees regular training for maintenance crew members.
VII. FOG Control
Program
The Field Maintenance Manager identifies grease hot
spots and maintains an effective cleaning program for
grease problem sewers with the assistance of the
Regulatory Compliance Manager. Regulatory Compliance
Manager and/or Environmental Compliance inspectors
enforce discharge regulations, as needed.
VIII. System Evaluation
and Capacity
The Public Works Director and Deputy Directors establish
and assess capacity requirements for the City’s collection
system and manages preparation and implementation of
the City’s System Evaluation and Capacity Assurance
Assurance
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 9
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
114 of 891

--- page 115 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
SSMP Element
Responsible Position
Plan. The Clean Water Program Engineering Manager
develops and implements the City’s long-term Capital
Improvement Plan including updating budgets and
schedules.
IX. Monitoring,
Measurement and
Program
The Deputy Directors monitor implementation and assess
success of the overall SSMP program elements.
Modifications
X. SSMP Audits
The Field Maintenance Manager with the assistance of
the Regulatory Compliance Manager performs a biennial
audit of the sections of the SSMP.
XI. Communication Plan
The City Council, City Manager, Public Works Director,
and Deputy Directors communicate with the public and
nearby agencies of the City’s SSMP.
2.4
CHAIN OF COMMUNICATION FOR SPILL REPORTING
To facilitate consistent reporting procedures for the public, the Department of Public
Works (DPW) has implemented a one-stop call center. Emergency sewer calls are
directly dispatched to the sewer response crew. Off-hours, the emergency sewer
telephone number rolls over to dispatch.
DPW has a process for receiving, responding to and reporting spills. The Sewer
Response Crew arrives first and assesses the situation. If the event is an spill, the
response crew calls the First Responder/Spill Response Crew. After the event, the First
Responder is responsible for communicating the details of the event to management and
ensuring all necessary paperwork is completed in full.
Additional information about the Chain of Communication for Spill Reporting is as follows:
•
The DPW customer service phone line (650-522-7300) is staffed Monday
through Friday 8am to 5pm to receive all incoming calls. After normal business
hours, the Public Works general number is forwarded to Police Dispatch
staffed to receive all incoming calls.
•
Emergency Response Crew (Utility 5) receives call from DPW staff or dispatch
and arrives on site. If spill is confirmed, Emergency Response Crew calls:
.
.
Normal working hours – Sewer Lead Worker
During off hours – Sewer Lead Worker and PW Supervisor
Contact information is provided in Table 2-2.
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 10
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
115 of 891

--- page 116 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
•
•
•
At site, Spill Response Crew will call a PW Supervisor. Additional crews and/or
the pump crew will be dispatched if necessary for assistance with mitigation,
blockage clearing, water sampling and clean-up. The PW Supervisor will
immediately contact the Field Maintenance Manager if the spill is CAT1 (See
Element 6 for spill categories).
First Responder contacts appropriate agencies, completes appropriate forms,
submits online report within required timeframes, and compiles all information
and photos for submittal to Public Works Supervisor. First Responder is
responsible for contacting OES at (800) 852-7550 within 2 hours for a CAT1
Spill.
Public Works Sewer Lead or Sewer Supervisor enters data in the SWRCB
California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) online portal, Sewer
Maintenance Supervisor or Field Maintenance Manager certifies the online
Spill Report to the Water Board, and updates electronic asset
management/CMMS information and GIS data.
2.5
EMERGENCY CONTACT PERSONNEL
Table 2-2 on the following page lists contact information for sewer spill response staff.
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 11
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
116 of 891

--- page 117 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
ORGANIZATION
EMERGENCY CONTACT PHONE NUMBERS
Collection System Responsible Parties
Table 2-2. Emergency Response Crew
Phone # (650) 522-7300
Mobile #
Work # and Email
Group
Staff
Position
(Area Code
650)
(Area Code 650)
Field
Maintenance
Manager*
Jose (Tony)
Baltodano
522-7359
483-5839
Field
baltodan@cityofsanmateo.org
Maintenance
522-7373
Supervisors
Sewer
Supervisor*
Eric Morkve
823-8286
emorkve@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7286
John DiMatteo
Lead Worker
Lead Worker
925-872-4029
jdimatteo@cityofsanmateo.org
Sewer Lead
Workers
Position in
Recruitment
To be
determined
To be determined
522-7356
Pump Lead
Mechanic
Noel Padilla
477-5681
435-1896
622-7596
759-0233
npadilla@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7356
Eduardo
Valdivia
Pump
Mechanic
evaldivia@cityofsanmateo.org
Pump Crew
522-7356
Pump
Mechanic
Mario Rodriguez
Manuel Fuentes
mrodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7356
Pump
Mechanic
mfuentes@cityofsanmateo.org
Regulatory
Compliance
Manager
Regulatory
Compliance
488-3262
sedlund@cityofsanmateo.org
Sven Edlund
488-3262
* Legally Responsible Official
2.6
APPENDIX 2 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 2
There are no Appendix Items for Element 2
Last Update: May, 2025
2 - 12
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 2: ORGANIZATION
117 of 891

--- page 118 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
ELEMENT 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
Each Enrollee must demonstrate, through sanitary sewer system use ordinances,
service agreements, or other legally binding procedures, that it possesses the
necessary legal authority to:
•
Prevent illicit discharges into its sanitary sewer system from inflow and
infiltration (I&I); unauthorized stormwater; chemical dumping; unauthorized
debris; roots; fats, oils, and grease; and trash, including rags and other debris
that may cause blockages;
•
Collaborate with storm sewer agencies to coordinate emergency spill
responses, ensure access to storm sewer systems during spill events, and
prevent unintentional cross connections of sanitary sewer infrastructure to storm
sewer infrastructure;
•
•
Require that sewers and connections be properly designed and constructed;
Ensure access for maintenance, inspection, or repairs for portions of the service
lateral owned or maintained by the Public Agency;
•
•
Enforce any violation of its sewer ordinances, service agreements, or other
legally binding procedures; and
Obtain easement accessibility agreements for locations requiring sewer system
operations and maintenance, as applicable.
3.1
GENERAL
The City of San Mateo’s Municipal Code has a comprehensive sewer use ordinance.
Chapter 7.38 of Title VII, Health and Sanitation, pertains to Sanitary Sewer Use. This
Municipal Code Chapter is available at this City of San Mateo webpage:
https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/7.38
Chapter 3.54 of Municipal Code Title III, Taxation and Finance, pertains to Sewer Service
Charges and Connection Fees. This Municipal Code Chapter is available at this City of
San Mateo webpage: https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/3.54
3.2
SEWER USE CODE REQUIRED ELEMENTS
The following sections provide requirements related to sewer system management.
i. Prevent illicit discharges into its sanitary sewer system (examples may include
I/I, storm water, chemical dumping, unauthorized debris, roots, fats, oils, and
grease, trash, etc.).
Illicit discharges are controlled through requirements established in the following
sections of the Municipal Code:
7.38.030 Definition of “Food Service Facility” and “Grease”
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
118 of 891

--- page 119 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
7.38.080 Approval of Plans for Sewer Construction
7.38.090 New Sources
7.38.100 Pretreatment+ Requirements
7.38.110 General Discharge Prohibition
7.38.120 Specific Discharge Prohibitions
7.38.130 Limitations on Point of Discharge
7.38.140 Prohibition against Dilution
7.38.160 Requirements for Food Service Facilities
7.38.210 Waste Discharge Permits
Satellite wastewater collection systems are included in these prohibitions by
reference. Person is defined as any individual, partnership, firm, associations, or
“public agency.”
Satellite agencies that contribute flow to the San Mateo collection system include:
•
•
•
•
Crystal Springs County Sanitation District (CSCSD)
Town of Hillsborough (Town)
County of San Mateo (County)
City of Belmont
There is a 1989 Sanitary Sewage Agreement between the City of San Mateo, the
Town, CSCSD, and the County that establishes the legal obligations of these parties.
A 2022 Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the Town establishes capital
cost sharing obligations between the parties. A 2024 Agreement between the City of
San Mateo, CSCSD, and County establishes capital cost sharing obligations between
the parties. A separate sewer service agreement with the City of Belmont is also
established. The agreements are included in the Appendices of this Element 3.
ii. Collaborate with storm sewer agencies to coordinate emergency spill
responses, ensure access to storm sewer systems during spill events, and
prevent unintentional cross connections to sanitary sewer infrastructure to
storm sewer infrastructure.
The City manages the storm sewer system; sewer and stormwater divisions
collaborate to coordinate response efforts during sewer spills. A separate ordinance is
not required for collaboration with outside storm sewer agencies.
iii. Require that sewers and connections be properly designed, constructed and
maintained.
7.38.080 Approval of Plans for Sewer Construction
This section requires that all construction or alteration of any building sewer, sanitary
sewer, public sewer, side sewer, or other facility shall require approval by the City.
This approval is accomplished by requiring an encroachment permit and/or building
permit. The permit requires that the work be done in accordance with City standards
or as specifically approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
119 of 891

--- page 120 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
iv. Ensure access for maintenance, inspection, and repairs of the sanitary sewer
system and for any portions of the service lateral owned or maintained by the
Enrollee.
7.38.430 Access to Sanitary Sewer System
This section requires that property owners must provide unobstructed access to sewer
lines and manholes located in easements on their property. For further information on
easement access procedures, refer to Chapter 6, Overflow Emergency Response
Plan, Section 6 Spill Response Field Procedures. The City does not own or maintain
private sewer laterals.
v. Enforce any violation of its sewer ordinance, service agreements, and or other
legally binding procedures.
Authority to enforce violations of the sewer ordinance is provided through the following
sections:
7.38.270 Modification, Suspension or Revocation of Permit
7.38.350 Authority to Inspect and Monitor
7.38.440 Compliance with Chapter
7.38.460 Administrative Remedies
7.38.470 Violations deemed a Public Nuisance
7.38.480 Civil Penalties
7.38.485 Injunctive Relief
7.38.490 Criminal Penalties
7.38.500 California Code of Civil Procedure
7.38.510 Emergency Termination of Services
vi. Obtain easement accessibility agreements for locations requiring sewer system
operations and maintenance, as applicable.
See Section 3.2.iv for legal authority regarding to access of operations and
maintenance.
3.3
OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWERS
This section clarifies City policies related to ownership and maintenance of service
laterals.
Section 7.38.432 establishes ownership requirements for service laterals.
7.38.432 PRIVATE SEWER LATERALS.
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
120 of 891

--- page 121 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
(a) Sewer Lateral Responsibility for Repair, Replacement and Maintenance. The
owner of the property(ies) serviced shall be responsible for any portion of the
private sewer lateral extending from a building to the public sewer main, including
the wye connection which joins the private sewer lateral to the public sewer main.
Any repairs, replacement or maintenance, such as the clearing of pipes using
common industry hydro or mechanical cleaning tools, will not be provided by the
City on private sewer laterals or in private sewer systems. Responsibility for such
repairs, replacement and maintenance is that of the owner of the property(ies)
serviced by the lateral.
(b) Mandatory Installation of Cleanout. When installing or replacing a sewer lateral
connection from a building to the public main sewer, if not already present, the
property owner shall install a cleanout near the property structure in accordance
with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code, the California Plumbing Code,
and any other applicable regulations adopted by the City, City standards, or plans
and specifications approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 2011-8 § 3, 2011).
(c) Sewer Lateral Inspections. The owner(s) of the property served by a private
sewer lateral shall be responsible for inspecting, testing, the lateral as required by
this subsection, and providing the results to the City. The Public Works Director
shall establish standards and regulations for the manner and scope of sewer
lateral inspections. (Ord. No. 2020-1 § 1; Ord. No. 2011-8 § 3.)
(1) When required.
(A) Upon the sale of real property served by a private sewer lateral.
(B) Prior to issuance of a building permit where the cost of the
improvements for an addition or alteration/remodel project exceeds
such amount as established by resolution of the City Council.
(C) For commercial or multifamily residential buildings, upon the
occurrence of a sewer lateral backup or blockage resulting in a
sanitary sewer overflow.
(D) Upon a change in sewer customer class, as defined by section
3.54.020.
(2) Exemptions. No inspection and testing of a sewer lateral shall be
required if:
(A) The sewer lateral has been inspected within the 5 years
immediately preceding one of the events listed above, and the
results of such inspection showed that either no repairs were
required, or only partial repairs were required, and those repairs
were in fact completed; or
(B) The sewer lateral has been completely replaced within the past
25 years, as evidenced by a plumbing permit issued by the City; or
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
121 of 891

--- page 122 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
(C) Upon other exemption approved by the Director of Public
Works.
3.4
SEWER USE FEES
Every parcel of land within the City of San Mateo connected to the sewer collection
system by a service lateral is charged a sewer service fee for the privilege to use the
system and to fund the operations and maintenance of the sewer collection system. Fees
are based on winter water usage and base sewer service charge rates are reviewed and
adopted by City Council annually through the Ordinance process. On July 20, 2023, the
City approved sewer rates for FY23/24 through FY27/28. The most current information on
sewer use fees is found here:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1085/Sewer-Service-Charge
3.5
APPENDIX 3 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 3
•
•
Appendix 3.1 – Estero Municipal Improvement District Agreement
Appendix 3.2 – 1989 Town of Hillsborough, CSCSD, County of San Mateo
Sewer Agreement
•
•
Appendix 3.3 – 2022 Town of Hillsborough Capital Cost Agreement
Appendix 3.4 – 2024 CSCSD and County of San Mateo Capital Cost
Agreement
•
Appendix 3.5 – City of Belmont Agreement
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
122 of 891

--- page 123 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
LEGAL AUTHORITY
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May, 2025
3 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
123 of 891

--- page 124 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
ELEMENT 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
The Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) must include those elements listed
below that are appropriate and applicable to the Enrollee’s system:
•
An up-to-date map of the sanitary sewer system, showing all gravity line
segments and manholes, pumping facilities, pressure pipes and valves, and
applicable stormwater conveyance facilities;
•
Scheduling and data collection system for preventive operation and
maintenance activities by staff and contractors, including a system for
scheduling regular inspections and maintenance of the sanitary sewer system
with more frequent cleaning and maintenance targeted at known problem areas
including tree root areas;
•
•
•
Regular visual and closed-circuit television (CCTV) inspections of manholes and
sewer pipes;
Internal and external training on a regular basis for staff and contractors in
sanitary sewer system operations and maintenance; and
Inventory of equipment and replacement parts, including identification of critical
replacement parts.
4.1
COLLECTION SYSTEM MAPS AND INFORMATION
4.1.1 Information Management
The Department of Public Works strives to maintain accurate electronic records of our
inventory of sewer assets as well as all work performed on those assets. This section
describes the software programs utilized to maintain this information.
4.1.1.i Utility Underground Maps
Maps include parcels and streets along with sewer and storm assets. Sewer and storm
maintenance staff utilize electronic tablets for map information when in the field. Maps are
referenced for maintenance activities as well as for determining how storm drainage
networks can be blocked in the event of a sewage spill.
4.1.1.ii GIS Computer Mapping Program
GIS is a computer mapping system that links graphic features on a map to databases of
related information. The City has converted all of its sanitary sewer assets into a GIS
database. GIS is utilized for storage/retrieval of asset information.
ArcSDE Sewer Layer (Feature Class) Structure
Sanitary sewer collection system information is maintained in an ArcSDE Geodatabase
that contains the following sewer GIS layers and attribute data:
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
124 of 891

--- page 125 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
SS-MANHOLES:
SS-MAINLINES:
Point features identifying the location of sewer manholes,
abandoned manholes, clean- outs, wet-wells, valves and plugs
Line features identifying the location of sewer gravity mainlines,
forcemains, abandoned gravity mainlines and forcemains,
upstream and downstream manhole numbers, upstream
manhole address, use of sewer, owner and pipe shape.
SS-PUMPSTATIONS:
Polygon features identifying the location of sewer pumping
station buildings, as well as data regarding wet wells, pumps
and maintenance information
SS-BASINS:
Polygon layer for the City’s five major sewer basins
SS-SUBBASINS:
Polygon layer outlining small sub-sections within each sewer
basin
SS-CLEANINGAREAS: Polygons further dissecting sub-basins. Cleaning areas identify
how flow is carried from peripheral lines to major trunklines to
help maintenance crews plan cleaning of the pipe networks.
Polygons are snapped to the outside boundaries of parcels
served at each small network to identify property owners within
each cleaning area
4.1.1.iii CMMS – Cartegraph
The City utilizes Cartegraph computerized maintenance management (CMMS)/asset
management system for planning and scheduling preventive maintenance work and for
tracking maintenance history on sewer assets. This GIS-based application provides
access to information pertinent to each asset (e.g. pipe diameter, length, material, etc.) as
well as to maintenance activities (work orders), resident complaints and requests for work
(service requests).
The primary functions of Cartegraph are:
•
•
Maintain service request and maintenance history for each collection system asset
Produce regularly updated maintenance schedules based on feedback from the
operators
•
•
•
Generate reports that support data analysis and decision making
Provide documentation for use in regulatory compliance reporting
Record line segments or structures that may be candidates for replacement or
rehabilitation under the capital improvement program
The CMMS program includes the following key fields which are used throughout the GIS
Layers.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
125 of 891

--- page 126 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Key Fields:
•
ID – The ID field contains asset feature ID’s (i.e. Manhole #s or Sewer Mainline
ID’s, which are the alpha-numeric upstream manhole # followed by the alpha-
numeric downstream manhole #)
•
LOCATION DESCRIPTION – This field is populated with an associated address or
nearest address/intersection.
4.1.2 Map Update and Maintenance Procedures
Updating of sewer collection system maps is coordinated through the Data Management
Division. The following actions are part of the program.
•
•
Field personnel note discrepancies or errors on field maps. Mark ups are submitted to
the Data Management Division for verification and GIS updates. Updates to the GIS
system, including attribute information, are reflected in associated maps and the
CMMS system.
The Data Management Division, in conjunction with the Sewer Engineering Division,
utilizes Pipeline Observation System Management (POSM) CCTV Inspection software
and data to more readily identify and correct inaccuracies in the electronic versions of
the sewer collection system as manholes are found and mainline lengths verified
through CCTV.
•
As-built AutoCAD (CAD) drawings for all City capital improvement projects are sent to
the Data Management Division as part of the project close-out procedures, and
updates are made in GIS. Updates to the GIS system, including attribute information,
are reflected in associated maps and the CMMS system.
•
Developers submit “as-builts” of final sewer system construction to the City. These
mark ups are submitted to the Data Management Division to modify and update the
GIS system. Updates to the GIS system, including attribute information, are reflected
in associated maps and the CMMS system.
4.2
PREVENTIVE OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
4.2.1 Overview
The Field Maintenance Division is responsible for the sewer collection system operations
and maintenance and implements several maintenance approaches which include
Citywide mainline cleanings, ongoing preventative maintenance of problem areas, and
closed circuit camera inspections (CCTV) of mainlines, and activities to minimize FOG
entering the collection system. The Field Maintenance Division relies on support from the
Sewer Engineering, Regulatory Compliance, and Data Management Divisions to
accomplish all these efforts to support the goals and objectives of the SSMP.
Sewer Maintenance is responsible for these collection system management goals:
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
126 of 891

--- page 127 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1.
Properly maintain, operate and manage the wastewater collection system in a
manner that supports the City’s objectives for cost effectiveness, reliability, and
environmental compliance..
2.
3.
Minimize the frequency of sanitary sewer spills.
Mitigate the impact of spills.
Summary objectives of Sewer Maintenance Preventative Maintenance Program include:
1.
2.
3.
Reduce spills through cleaning, video condition assessment, root control, and
post-spill analysis/evaluation.
Identify collection system blockages, including those caused by fats, oil and
grease (FOG), and develop strategies to decrease backups.
Operate pump stations at peak efficiency and perform scheduled preventive
maintenance.
4.
5.
Maintain records of the sanitary sewer system and respond to inquiries.
Assist with the development of a capital improvement program directed at
maintaining the current sewer assets, improving system reliability and
providing adequate future capacity.
Tables listing the equipment and personnel dedicated to maintenance of the sewer
collection system, including backup equipment, replacement part inventories, and/or
critical replacement parts, can be found in Appendix 4.7 of this document.
4.2.2 Citywide Routine Sewer Cleaning and CWP Cleaning and CCTV
One goal of the City is to clean every sewer mainline within an identified required time
period. A system has been developed to schedule and track these efforts, and to
document the problems found in the system.
The City currently implements three coordinated cleaning schedules: routine cleaning and
target cleaning is facilitated by Field Maintenance, and contracted cleaning and CCTV is
facilitated by the Sewer Engineering Division. Together, these programs result in the
cleaning of every District pipe at least once every three years.
The collection system is divided into five major sewer basins and then further divided into
subbasins that identify how pipe networks converge into trunk lines and flow is carried to
the wastewater treatment plant.
Basin and subbasin boundaries were created in the GIS system and are currently stored
as GIS layers. Snapshots of the layers are shown in Figure 4-1 below.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
127 of 891

--- page 128 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Figure 4-1. District Basin and Subbasin Maps
BASINS
SUBBASINS
Staff uses information from the overall collection system basin map, previous cleaning
results, terrain of the city, crew knowledge, and the history of logged calls, to develop and
update the cleaning frequency for each collection system basin.
Staff focuses on completing routine cleaning of one basin each year as part of a
5- year routine cleaning cycle. In recent years, routine cleaning has occurred on a 3-year
cycle, thereby exceeding the 5-year goal.
Field Maintenance staff clean pipes up to 21-inches in diameter and contract out cleaning
of pipes 24-inches and larger.
The order of routine pipe cleaning by basin is shown below:
1. 
Basin B
2. 
Basin C
3. 
Basin D
4. 
Basin A
5. 
Basin E
The cleaning frequencies are dynamic and the cleaning map is updated and maintained
by City staff. The cleaning maps follow flow so that crews can clean outlying pipes and
work down as mainlines converges into trunk lines.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
128 of 891

--- page 129 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Individual subbasin cleaning area maps are utilized to manage crew activities. These
maps provide space for crews to note the dates, time spent, vehicles used, type of
cleaning performed (e.g. jet, power-rod, hydro-saw, etc.), and the names of the operators,
as well as document any problems found in each pipe segment. The subbasin cleaning
schedule is flexible and adjusted to accommodate the contracted cleaning and CCTV, and
root foaming projects discussed below. A snapshot of the cleaning area map is shown in
figure 4-2 below.
Figure 4-2. Example Subbasin Cleaning Area Map
The Contracted Cleaning and CCTV project is implemented in parallel to routine sewer
cleaning. The Contracted Cleaning and CCTV inspection for a basin is completed
annually with the entire system completed on a 5-year cycle.
Root foaming is also conducted in parallel with cleaning and CCTV efforts. The root
control program treats pipelines areas with significant root intrusion. The City has defined
two basins to be treated in alternate years: the area west of El Camino Real and north of
Highway 92 (known as the North Basin) and the area west of El Camino Real and south of
Highway 92 (known as the South Basin).
Routine sewer cleaning work orders are developed to avoid overlap with the Contracted
Cleaning and CCTV program and the root control program. The routine cleaning is
scheduled three to four months before, and three to four months after, pipes are root
foamed.
Since the Contracted Cleaning and CCTV program covers one fifth of the City annually
and the root foaming program covers one of two large sections of the system annually
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
129 of 891

--- page 130 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
(which determines the internal Citywide cleaning program schedule), most of the system
mainlines are cleaned more frequently than on the scheduled 5-year basis.
4.2.3 Target Cleaning of Problem Areas
The Field Maintenance Division - Sewer Maintenance has a preventive maintenance (PM)
program for identified problem areas (“hot-spots”) of the sewer collection system. Sewer
mainlines that have a history of blockages caused by hardened FOG, root intrusion, poor
grade, or sags are referred to as sewer “hot-spots.” The list of hot-spot problem areas
(target areas) was developed over the years through historical knowledge and experience
of operators, tracking locations of repeat sewer blockages and surcharges, and through
CCTV inspection findings. Hot-spot sewer mainlines are put on a monthly, quarterly or bi-
annual preventive maintenance cleaning schedule. This list is regularly updated as new
target areas are identified. The City has discussed the need for consolidation of historical
and written documentation of cleaning and CCTV findings that define the hot spot
mainlines. This documentation would supplement and memorialize historical knowledge
and experience. The information and method of documentation will be discussed and
formalized by City staff and included in the next SSMP update.
The Field Maintenance Division - Sewer Maintenance meets at least annually to evaluate
the effectiveness of certain types of cleanings, discuss whether the frequency of cleaning
is appropriate at each location, and identify if other problem areas have surfaced that
should be added to the PM list.
Crews also evaluate on a more frequent basis the effectiveness of PM cleaning and
increase or decrease the length of time between cleanings based on field knowledge and
experience as well as with the assistance of CCTV inspections. For example, after CCTV,
if it is determined that rehabilitation or replacement of the inspected line may be
necessary, sewer engineering staff is notified. Sewer engineering staff evaluate CCTV
findings and implement warranted rehabilitations or replacements. If the CCTV results
identify an opportunity to remove the inspected line from the PM list, Sewer Engineering
and Data Management Divisions are also notified.
Hot-spots will remain on a preventative maintenance schedule until subsequent
observations determine that the potential for obstruction or blockage has been reduced or
eliminated. Sewer Maintenance staff review the Hot-Spots list and make updates as
necessary. Locations are also CCTV inspected every five years. These records are
reviewed and discussed with the Sewer Engineering Division to determine if rehabilitation
is required and may alleviate the need for more frequent cleanings than once a year.
A representative preventive maintenance schedule and list of target areas, as well as a
map depicting hot-spot locations, are attached as Appendix 4.6 of this document. These
schedules are dynamic and a more recent schedule may be in use by City staff.
4.2.4 Cleaning Procedures
Sewer Maintenance staff are trained on line-cleaning procedures. Various cleaning
methods are used to ensure adequate cleaning of sewer mainlines, including hydro-jet,
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 7
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
130 of 891

--- page 131 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
hydro-saw, power-rod, and chain flail. Standard operating procedures for sewer mainline
cleaning and related safe practices are attached as Appendix 4.2 of this document.
4.2.5 Collection System Performance
Objectives of preventive maintenance activities include the decrease in sewer mainline
blockages and spills. Performance indicators are used in assessing the effectiveness of
these activities. Table 4-1 reflects sewer maintenance performance over the last five
years.
Table 4-1. Sewer Maintenance Performance Indicators
# Wet
Weather
Spills
# Dry
Weather
Spills
Total Vol
Recover
(gal)
Total Vol
Reached
Surface Water
Calendar
Year
Total # per 100
miles
Total Spill
Volume (gal)
1.74 (Cat 1)
0.43 (Cat 2)
3.63 (Cat 3)
2.42 (Cat 1)
0.61 (Cat 2)
4.54 (Cat 3)
1.30 (Cat 1)
0.00 (Cat 2)
2020
2021
0
3
17
22
154,061
370,960
25,503
6,067
127,435
364,061
2022
2
5
506,665
1,240
505,425
1.74 (Cat 3)
3.04 (Cat 1)
0.00 (Cat 2)
1.30 (Cat 3)
2.61 (Cat 1)
0.00 (Cat 2)
0.43 (Cat 3)
2023
2024
5
0
5
7
2,210,792
36,650
80,267
500
2,130,525
35,950
Notes: Dry weather is defined as March 15 through October 14; Wet weather is defined as
October 15 through March 14
4.3
REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT PLAN
4.3.1 Condition Assessment and Inspection
The DPW has a goal of conducting a video condition assessment of sewer mainlines
approximately every five years. An approximate five-year period will provide information
needed to trend the condition of the lines and more effectively plan repairs.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 8
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
131 of 891

--- page 132 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
The CCTV inspection is performed by contracted services. Information from the CCTV
inspection is recorded into the Pipeline Observation System Management (POSM)
software and is utilized in prioritizing annual mainline repair projects. To provide
consistency in data collection and review of pipe conditions, the department utilizes a
standard operating procedures manual for CCTV inspections along with standardized
rating system (SSMP Appendix 4.1). The manual is intended for use in conjunction with
National Association of Sewer Service Companies (NASSCO) Standards for sewer
mainline and manhole condition assessments.
4.3.2 Prioritization of Repair and Rehabilitation
The City budgets currently range from $9 to $13 million/year for annual pipeline
rehabilitation and repair. This funding is in addition to major line replacements or pump
station upgrades identified in the five-year capital improvement programs. This budget is
used to maintain pipes in a state of good repair.
4.3.3 Five Year Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
The City has a business plan (Budget) that includes a Five-Year Capital Improvement
Program (CIP). The approved Five-Year CIP can be found on pages 243-251 of the
City’s adopted FY2023-24 Budget, which is found on the City website at the following url:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/92507/2023-24-Adopted-
Budget?bidId=
Individual CIP projects can begin before and continue beyond the budget cycle. The Five-
Year CIP will only identify funds being newly allocated to the existing project. Revenues
from annual sewer use fees are used to fund operations and maintenance programs, as
well as CIP projects identified to rehabilitate the collection system.
Table 4-2 summarizes annual expenditures for major sewer repair and rehabilitation
projects for the past five fiscal years.
Table 4-2. Total Expenditures on Major Sewer Projects by Fiscal Year
Fiscal Year (FY)
FY19-20
Total Expenditures ($)
40,349,000
FY20-21
49,984,000
FY21-22
46,702,000
FY22-23
34,154,000
FY23-24
32,135,000
5-YEAR TOTAL:
$203,322,000
In addition, staff prepares a longer-term planning document that identifies probable long-
term financial needs and targets future projects. This document is used to develop sewer
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 9
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
132 of 891

--- page 133 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
rates and help plan for the issuance of necessary bonds or pursuits of loan/grant
opportunities. The City approved 5-year sewer rate increases for FY23-24 to FY27-28.
The San Mateo Sewer Enterprise, owned and operated by the City under the
administration of the Public Works Department, releases and updates Financial
Projections that provide direction on rate setting strategies. The most current information
on sewer rates and administrative regulations are found here:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1085/Sewer-Service-Charge
4.4
PUMP STATION MAINTENANCE
The Field Maintenance Division’s pump crew, consisting of one Lead Pump Mechanic,
three Pump Mechanic I’s, and one laborer, are in charge of the operations and
maintenance of twenty-four of the City’s pump stations. The Dale Avenue pump station is
operated and maintained by the Wastewater Treatment Plant Division. Of the twenty-five
pump stations, all have pumps that alternate automatically and there are lead / lag pumps.
Wet well operations are set to limit pump starts and stops and in-line storage of wet
weather flows occurs automatically. Power outages occur infrequently and average about
three per year. Seven portable generators (exercised under load annually) are assigned
specifically to the pump crew for use in power outage situations. The pump station
inventory, including backup equipment, replacement part inventories, and critical
replacement parts is found in Appendix 4.3 of this document.
25 pump stations are inspected quarterly as part of the sewer maintenance pump station
preventive maintenance program. Work activities are developed and prioritized based on
these inspections and completed prior to the next inspection. The Dale Avenue pump
station is inspected daily by the WWTP. Preventive maintenance inspections cover the
items listed in Table 4-3.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 10 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
133 of 891

--- page 134 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Table 4-3. Preventative Maintenance Inspection List
Lubrication
Inspection
Leak Checks
Exercise
Housekeeping
Motors
Sump Pumps
Fuel/Oil lines
Motors
Clean Interior
Isolation
Gate
Valves
Main Pumps
Belts
Valves
Packing
Seals
Clean Exterior
Leaf/Debris
Pickup/Vegetation
Removal
Drive Shafts
Valves
Flap Gates
Vacuum and
Clean MCC
Electrical Panels
Backflow
Preventors
Locks &
Padlocks
Wash Down Wet
Wells
Controls/Alarms
Lubricators
Air Systems
Latches &
Hinges
Wet Wells
Exhaust Systems
Motor Control
Panels
Where appropriate, the pump crew forwards recommendations to the Sewer Engineering
Division for major rehabilitation or formal engineering inspection of specific stations.
The pump crew utilizes a SCADA system to monitor pump run-times. Alarms sent to the
pump crew include, but are not limited to: high and low wet well levels, pump overload,
dry pit flooding, and power failure.
4.5
PRIVATE SEWER LATERAL COST SHARING PROGRAM
In addition to sewer and pump station maintenance, the City promotes private lateral
replacements by property owners through a Private Sewer Lateral Cost Sharing Program
(PSLCSP) established in 2011. The program was initially funded with a combination of the
fine monies and 10% of the annual sewer maintenance and repair budget.
A revised PSLCSP was approved by the City Council in June 2013, to be funded annually,
at the beginning of each fiscal year. The program provided cost sharing of 50% of the cost
of full lateral replacements only, up to a maximum of $5,000, based on the lowest of the
three written estimates required to be submitted by the property owner. In FY24/25, the
cost sharing limits changed. Additional information on program changes will be discussed
in a future SSMP update.
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 11 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
134 of 891

--- page 135 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
In 2018, the City enhanced the program with additional outreach and by limiting eligibility
of applications to a three-month time frame; this new timeframe allows for more owners to
participate in the program rather than waiting for inactive applications to complete the
process. Once the program budget for the given year has been exhausted, the City
discontinues the program until funding for the following year has been allocated.
Spot repairs and partial repairs are not included in the cost sharing program. All types of
properties (residential, commercial, multi-family, etc.) that are in the City are eligible for
the full lateral replacement cost sharing.
Program materials and public outreach post-cards can be found on the City website at the
following URL: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1910/Citywide-Private-Lateral-Cost-
Sharing-Pr
4.6
SEWER MAINTENANCE STAFF TRAINING
The City’s maintenance staff is required to complete various types of training as listed
below in Table 4-4. Maintenance staff is encouraged to study, prepare for and take
CWEA Certification testing. Specific training dates for employees can be found in
Appendix 4.4 Sewer Crew training.
Table 4-4. Sewer Maintenance Staff Training - List of Classes
CORE
Customer Service
Sexual Harassment
Cultural Diversity
Commercial Driver License
Injury and Illness Prevention Program
CWEA Certifications (optional)
Fire Extinguisher
EQUIPMENT
Mainline Cleaning (Power rodder, Hydro jet/vac truck , Hydro
Saw, Chain Flail)
Chainsaw
Forklift
Tractor Loader/Backhoe
Bobcat loader and attachments
Fall Protection
OPERATIONS
Alternate Confined Space
Lock Out Tag Out/Electrical Safety
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 12
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
135 of 891

--- page 136 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
4 Gas Monitor usage (Detection)
Excavation safety
Work Zone safety (Traffic Control)
USA Locating
SSO Prevention
SPCC
Incident Command Systems 100, 200, 700
STOPPP
PUMP CREW
Electrical Training
SCADA
Mechanical Applications (Pump Repairs)
Mobile Crane Truck Safe Operation
Mobile Electrical Generator
Alternate Confine Space
Hazmat
EMERGENCY
Emergency Action Plan (Evacuations)
Sanitary Sewer Overflow Emergency Response Plan (OERP)
Blood Borne Pathogen
Dehydration / Heat Stroke
CPR-First Aid- AED
MEDICAL
TRAINING
4.7
APPENDIX 4 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 4
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Appendix 4.1 – CCTV Standards
Appendix 4.2 – Sewer Pipe Cleaning Standard Operating Procedures
Appendix 4.3 – Pumpstation Maintenance
Appendix 4.4 – Sewer Maintenance Crew Training
Appendix 4.5 – Manhole Inspection Program
Appendix 4.6 – “Hot-Spots” & Leak Detection Program
Appendix 4.7 – Sewer Maintenance Dedicated Equipment and Personnel
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 13 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
136 of 891

--- page 137 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
•
Appendix 4.8 – Collection System Maps and Information
 4.8.A.i Underground Utilities Map Page
 4.8.A.ii Sewer Pumpstations and Trunklines Map
 4.8.A.iii Sewer Collection System Pipe Sizes
 4.8.A.iv Sewer Collection System Terrain Map
 4.8.A.v Sewer Collection System Basin Map
 4.8.A.vi Sewer Collection System Subbasin Map
 4.8.A.vii Sewer Collection System Cleaning Areas Map (Current Snapshot)
 4.8.A.viii Sewer District Cleaning Schedule Maps (Current Snapshot)
 4.8.A.ix Sewer Root Foaming Schedule Map
Last Update: May 2025
4 - 14 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 4: OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
137 of 891

--- page 138 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
ELEMENT 5: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
•
Design and construction standards and specifications for the installation of new
sanitary sewer systems, pump stations and other appurtenances; and for the
rehabilitation and repair of existing sanitary sewer systems; and
•
Procedures and standards for inspecting and testing the installation of new
sewers, pumps, and other appurtenances and for rehabilitation and repair
projects.
5.1
STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION, REHABILITATION, AND REPAIR
The City has referenced both the “Green Book” Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction and the Caltrans Standard Specifications for City public works construction.
These specifications provide requirements for the installation of new sewer systems and
for the rehabilitation and repair of existing sewer systems. In addition, the City maintains
Sanitary Sewer Details and Appurtenances and recently updated its trench requirements
as a component of Street Improvement Details. These documents are available on the
City’s website: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2081/Standard-Drawings
In 2014, the City developed an Integrated Wastewater 20-year Master Plan. The Master
Plan established the design storm as having a 5-year recurrence interval and 6-hour
duration. When applying the design storm to the City’s hydraulic model, a pipe segment is
determined to be capacity deficient and require replacement when 1) the pipe conveys
maximum capacity, 2) surcharging in the adjacent manhole occurs, and 3) freeboard at
the adjacent manholes is less than three feet. Freeboard is defined as the difference
between modeled rim elevation and water surface elevation.
The City requires selected engineering consultants to develop criteria for pump station
design on a station by station basis, following engineering best management practices.
5.2
STANDARDS FOR INSPECTION & TESTING OF NEW, REHABILITATED, AND
REPAIRED FACILITIES
The standard specifications also provide requirements for the inspection and testing of all
new, rehabilitated and repaired sewer assets, including pressure testing, mandreling,
water exfiltration, and/or post construction closed circuit television inspection. Testing and
inspection are overseen by a City construction inspector prior to accepting work.
5.3
APPENDIX 5 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 5
There are no appendix items for Element 5.
Last Update: May 2025
5 - 1 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 5: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
138 of 891

--- page 139 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
5 - 2 
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 5: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
139 of 891

--- page 140 ---
City of San Mateo Department of Public Works
SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN (SERP)
For
Outside Sanitary Sewer Spills
(Includes Contact Information for Inside Spills)
Updated May 2, 2025
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES DIVISION
1949 Pacific Blvd., San Mateo CA 94403
Telephone (650) 522-7300 Fax (650) 522-7351
140 of 891

--- page 141 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6-ii
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
141 of 891

--- page 142 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction
6-1
6-1
6-1
6.1 Purpose
6.2 Statewide WDR Requirement
Spill Categories
6-3
6-3
6.3 Spill Categories
6.4 Incident Notification
6.5 Role Of Responders
6.6 Designated Emergency Responders
6.7 Spill Response Equipment
6.8 Field Procedures
6-5
6-7
6-7
6-8
6-8
6.9 Sewage Estimation
6-10
6-10
6-12
6-13
6-15
6-15
6.10
6.11
6.12
6.13
6.14
Water Quality Sampling And Analysis
Spill Technical Report
Spill Response Within Private Property
Investigation And Documentation Procedure
Post-Spill Analysis
Spill Reporting Procedures/ Regulatory Notification
6.15 
Documentation
6-17
6-17
6-17
6-18
6-18
6-19
6-19
6-19
6-19
6-19
6-19
6.15.1 Spill Event Complaints
6.15.2 Recordkeeping of Category 4 Spills
6.15.3 Recordkeeping for Total Annual Spill Information
6.15.4 Sewer System Telemetry Records
6.15.5 Sewer System Management Plan Implementation Records
6.15.6 Audit Records
6.15.7 Equipment Records (List)
6.15.8 Work Orders
6.15.9 Spill Specific Monitoring (Documentation)
Last Update: May 2023
i
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
142 of 891

--- page 143 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.16
Regulatory Reporting
6-20
6-25
6-25
6-26
6-26
6-30
6-31
6-31
6.16.1 Multiple Appearance Points – Single Spill
6.16.2 2-Hour Notification To Regulatory Agencies Of Spills
6.16.3 Notification Of Spill Report Updates
6.16.4 Detailed Reporting Requirements
6.16.5 CIWQS Not Available
6.16.6 Amending Spill Reports
6.16.7 CIWQS – Electronic Reporting To State Water Board
Training
6-32
6-33
6-33
6-33
6-33
6.17
6.18
6.19
6.20
Spill Response Training
Initial And Annual Refresher Training
Spill Response Drills
Spill Training Record Keeping
FIGURES
Figure 6-1 Notification Procedures for Spills between 7:00 am and 3:30 pm Mon thru Friday
Figure 6-2 Notification Procedures for Spills – After Hours & Weekends
TABLES
Table 6-1 Spill Response Crew
Table 6-2 Spill Response Steps and Actions
Table 6-3 Sampling Locations for Spills 50,000 Gallons or Greater
Table 6-4 Laboratory Information
Table 6-5 Water Quality Sampling Contact Information
Table 6-6 Key Deadlines for Spill Reporting
Table 6-7 Summary of Spill Reporting Requirements
Table 6-8 Category 1 and 2 CIWQS Draft Spill Report – Required Information
Table 6-9 Category 1 and 2 CIWQS Spill Certification – Required Information
Table 6-10 Category 3 CIWQS Spill Certification – Required Information
Table 6-11 Regulatory Reporting Flowchart at Site of Spill
APPENDICES
Appendix 6.1 – Contingency Equipment
Appendix 6.2 – Spill Field Procedures
Last Update: May 2025
6-ii
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
143 of 891

--- page 144 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Appendix 6.3 – Investigation and Documentation Forms
Appendix 6.4 – Spill Calculation and Estimation
Appendix 6.5 – Signage and Posting Procedures
Appendix 6.6 – Water Quality Monitoring Program Details
Appendix 6.7 – Spill Technical Report Template
Last Update: May 2025
6-iii
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
144 of 891

--- page 145 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6-iv
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
145 of 891

--- page 146 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INTRODUCTION
6.1
PURPOSE
The purpose of the Sanitary Sewer Spill Emergency Response Plan (SERP) is to outline the
City’s sanitary sewer spill response activities, with the objective of minimizing the impacts of
spills to the public and the environment. In achieving this goal, the SERP serves as a guideline
for City of San Mateo personnel in cleaning and mitigating the effects of sanitary sewer spills, as
well as in following proper sampling and reporting procedures.
6.2
STATEWIDE WDR REQUIREMENT
The Spill Emergency Response Plan shall include measures to protect public health and the
environment. The City shall respond to spills from its system in a timely manner that
minimizes water quality impacts and nuisance by:
•
•
•
•
Immediately stopping the spill and preventing/minimizing a discharge to Waters of the
State1;
Intercepting sewage flows to prevent/minimize spill volume discharged into Waters of
the State;
Thoroughly recovering, cleaning up and disposing of sewage and wash down water;
and
Cleaning publicly accessible areas while preventing toxic discharges to Waters of the
State.
More specifically (also continued on the next page):
The Spill Emergency Response Plan shall ensure prompt detection and response to spills to
reduce spill volumes and collect information for prevention of future spills. The Spill
Emergency Response Plan must include procedures to:
•
Notify primary responders, appropriate local officials, and appropriate regulatory
agencies of a spill in a timely manner;
•
Notify other potentially affected entities (for example, health agencies, water
suppliers, etc.) of spills that potentially affect public health or reach waters of the
State;
•
•
•
Comply with the notification, monitoring and reporting requirements of this General
Order, State law and regulations, and applicable Regional Water Board Orders;
Ensure that appropriate staff and contractors implement the Spill Emergency
Response Plan and are appropriately trained;
Address emergency system operations, traffic control, and other necessary response
activities;
1 Waters of the State include any surface water or groundwater, including saline waters, within the boundaries of the
state as defined in Water Code section 13050(e), and are inclusive of waters of the United States.
Last Update: May 2025
6-1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
146 of 891

--- page 147 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
•
•
Contain a spill and prevent/minimize discharge to Waters of the State or any drainage
conveyance system;
Minimize and remediate public health impacts and adverse impacts on beneficial
uses of Waters of the State;
•
•
Remove sewage from the drainage conveyance system;
Clean the spill area and drainage conveyance system in a manner that does not
inadvertently impact beneficial uses in the receiving waters;
•
•
Implement technologies, practices, equipment, and interagency coordination to
expedite spill containment and recovery;
Implement pre-planned coordination and collaboration with storm drain agencies and
other utility agencies/departments prior, during, and after a spill event;
•
•
•
Conduct post-spill assessments of spill response activities;
Document and report spill events as required in the Statewide WDR; and
Annually, review and assess effectiveness of the Spill Emergency Response Plan,
and update the Plan as needed.
Last Update: May 2025
6-2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
147 of 891

--- page 148 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL CATEGORIES
6.3
SPILL CATEGORIES
Definition of Spill: The SWRCB defines a spill as a discharge of sewage from any portion of a
sanitary sewer system due to an operational failure, and/or infrastructure failure. Exfiltration of
sewage is not considered to be a spill if the exfiltrated sewage remains in the subsurface and
does not reach a surface water.
CATEGORIES OF SPILLS: The four categories of reportable spills are defined as follows.
•
Category 1 – A spill of any volume of sewage from or caused by the City of San Mateo
sanitary sewer system (including laterals from City-owned buildings) that results in a
discharge to:
.
A surface water, including a surface water body that contains no flow or volume of
water; or
.
A drainage conveyance system that discharges to surface waters when the
sewage is not fully captured and returned to the sanitary sewer system or disposed
of properly.
Reporting Deadlines for Cat 1 Spill:
-
If 1,000 gallons or greater, report to California Department of Emergency
Services (Cal OES) within 2 hours of being aware of the spill.
-
For all other Category 1 spills, submit draft info in CIWQS within 3 days of
becoming aware and certify within 15 calendar days after spill end date/time.
•
•
Category 2 Spill – A spill of 1,000 gallons or greater, from or caused by the City of San
Mateo sanitary sewer system, that does not reach surface water.
Reporting Deadlines for Cat 2 Spill:
-
Submit draft report 3 days after being aware of spill. Certify within 15 days after
spill end date.
Category 3 Spill – A spill equal or greater than 50 gallons and less than 1,000 gallons,
from or caused by the City of San Mateo sanitary sewer system, that does not reach
surface water.
Reporting Deadlines for Cat 3 Spill:
-
Submit certified report within 30 calendar days of the end of the month in which
spill occurred.
•
Category 4 Spill - A spill of less than 50 gallons, from or caused by the City of San
Mateo sanitary sewer system (including laterals from City-owned buildings), that does
not reach surface water.
Reporting Deadlines for Cat 4 Spill:
-
Submit certified report within 30 calendar days of the end of the month in which
spill occurred.
-
Upload and certify a report, in an acceptable digital format, of all Category 4 spills
by February 1st after the end of the calendar year in which the spills occur.
Last Update: May 2025
6-3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
148 of 891

--- page 149 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6-4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
149 of 891

--- page 150 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES
6.4
INCIDENT NOTIFICATION
Figures 6-1 and 6-2 show the notification and reporting process for spills that occur during
working hours and outside of working hours.
Figure 6-1 Notification Procedures for Spills between 7am and 3:30pm Mon thru Friday
Last Update: May 2025
6-5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
150 of 891

--- page 151 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Figure 6-2 Notification Procedures for Spills – After Hours & Weekends
Last Update: May 2025
6-6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
151 of 891

--- page 152 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL RESPONSE PROGRAM
6.5
ROLE OF RESPONDERS
The First Responder initiates coordination with the Sewer Leadworker who is responsible for
directing the entire spill response including mitigation, cause removal, clean-up, and follow-up
CCTV. The Spill Responders and/or the Sewer Leadworker are also responsible for ensuring
proper event documentation and photographs, timely reporting to appropriate agencies, and
arranging for the collection of water samples as necessary.
The Spill Responders are required to take the appropriate action to secure the wastewater spill
area, relieve the cause of the spill, and ensure that the affected area is cleaned as soon as
possible to minimize health hazards to the public and to protect the environment. Every effort
must be made to prevent sewage from reaching surface water.
6.6
DESIGNATED EMERGENCY RESPONDERS
The list of the staff designated to spill response (i.e., Spill Responders) and their contact
information is provided in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1. Spill Response Crew
Mobile #
Work #
(Area Code
650)
Group
Staff
Position
(Area Code 650)
Field
Maintenance
Manager
522-7359
Tony Baltodano
483-5839
baltodan@cityofsanmateo.org
Environmental Services
Supervisors
Sewer
Supervisor
522-7373
Eric Morkve
John DiMatteo
Noel Padilla
823-8386
(925) 872-4029
477-5681
emorkve@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7286
Sewer Leadworker
Lead Worker
jdimatteo@cityofsanmateo.org
Pump Lead
Mechanic
522-7356
npadilla@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7356
Eduardo
Valdivia
Pump Mechanic
Pump Mechanic
Pump Mechanic
281-5477
evaldivia@cityofsanmateo.org
Pump Crew
522-7356
Mario
Rodriguez
622-7596
mrodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org
522-7356
Manuel
Fuentes
579-0233
483-3262
mfuentes@cityofsanmateo.org
Regulatory
Compliance
Manager
483-3262
Regulatory Compliance
Sven Edlund
sedlund@cityofsanmateo.org
Last Update: May 2025
6-7
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
152 of 891

--- page 153 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.7
SPILL RESPONSE EQUIPMENT
The City has a variety of equipment used for clearing blockages and for impact mitigation and
cleanup activities. City staffs are provided training to operate this equipment. A list of the City’s
sewer maintenance equipment can be found in Appendix 6.1 of this document.
6.8
FIELD PROCEDURES
The following field procedures provide guidelines for tasks to be completed during spill
response. Actual tasks may need to be adjusted based on field conditions.
Separate City departments are responsible for sewer and stormwater facilities. The City
departments work closely to protect and monitor its stormwater conveyance systems during and
after a spill.
1. PRE-TRIP:
•
•
Follow SOP for vehicle pre-trip
Ensure trailer has all required contingency supplies (see Appendix 6.1)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6” to 10” air plug
10” to 24” air plug
Air tank and air compressor
Spill Kit (pads, gloves, etc.)
Two 6-foot booms
One 5-foot retrieval pole
Sampling Kit with Instructions
2. ARRIVAL: Spill Response Crew must target arrival at site with hydro flush combo
unit and contingency equipment ASAP – no more than 1 HOUR after call.
3. ASSESS SITE OF SPILL
•
•
•
Identify whether sewage has already reached surface water.
Check underground map books to determine best method for spill containment.
Call for backup if more hydro flush combo unit trucks, crews or pump crew are
required.
•
•
Take photographs close-up and of spill area for determination of volume.
Contact PW Supervisor. PW Supervisor contacts PW Field Maintenance
Manager.
•
Spill Reporter CALLS OES WITHIN 2 HOURS if CATEGORY 1 is spilled in a
location that will likely flow to a surface water.
4. BARRICADE AND POST
•
Minimize public contact with spilled materials.
Last Update: May 2025
6-8
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
153 of 891

--- page 154 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
•
•
Cone & barricade spill area and utilize signage to direct pedestrian and auto
traffic around/away from spill area (Orange “Raw Sewage” and Arrow signs).
Post flyers that states “DANGER RAW SEWAGE, Keep Children and Pets out
of this area” together with contact information of Department of Public Works
(see Appendix 6.5)
•
•
Keep children and pets out of the area.
Close street(s) as necessary. Sewer staff on call will coordinate with Police
Department.
•
If discharge has reached surface waters, refer to Sewage Spill Watersheds Map
(see Appendix 6.5). Identify which watershed may be affected by sewage. Post
“DANGER Contaminated Water” signs (see Appendix 6.5) at locations identified
in this document as appropriate for the affected watershed (refer to Appendix
6.5 for watershed posting procedures).
•
Photograph barricaded & posted area(s).
5. DIVERSION, CONTAINMENT AND RECOVERY
See Table 6-2 below for spill response steps and actions.
Table 6-2. Spill Response Steps and Actions
STEP
ACTIONS
1. Diversion &
Containment
WHERE FEASIBLE, DIVERT AWAY FROM SENSITIVE AREAS
(e.g., Schools, Daycares, Playgrounds, Intersections, Creeks, etc.)
•
•
Install air plugs on storm drains to contain the spill.
Divert using small berm to change direction of flow back to
sewer.
•
Divert spill by pumping around spill and return to sewer.
WHERE FEASIBLE, CONTAIN SPILL & RETURN TO SYSTEM
•
Contain spill by letting it collect in a naturally low area and
recover sewage when time permits.
•
Dike/Dam (or sand bagging) spill by building dirt berm to
collect spill.
PHOTOGRAPH DIVERSION & CONTAINMENT
2. Clear Blockage 
RELIEVE CAUSE OF SPILL
•
•
Relieve the stoppage as soon as possible by use of Sewer
Rodder or Hydro-jet. Refer to SOP binder for proper use of
equipment.
Have hydro flush combo unit set up downstream or use trap at
downstream manhole to catch any debris that may get
released.
Last Update: May 2025
6-9
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
154 of 891

--- page 155 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
STEP
ACTIONS
•
Refer to and follow all Safety Regulations.
3. Area Clean-Up
CLEAN UP AND DISINFECTING
•
•
•
Remove all signs of gross pollution (solids, TP, etc.)
Lightly spray disinfectant (and broom area). Wait 10 min.
Flush area with water. The amount of flush water should be
at least three times that of the spill if practical.
•
Water shall be contained and returned to sewer.
PHOTOGRAPH AREA AFTER CLEAN-UP
6. SAMPLING AND LAB TESTS
•
If the estimated spill volume is 50,000 gallons or more, collect water samples within
18 hours following Section 6.10, Water Quality Sampling and Analysis Monitoring.
7. CCTV INSPECTION – CCTV should be performed as soon as possible and/or feasible
to help determine the spill cause.
6.9
SEWAGE ESTIMATION
Use the methods outlined in Appendix 6.4 to estimate the volume of the spilled sewage. Use up
to three methods of estimation to help validate results, where feasible.
Some spills may occur in locations where the wastewater can seep into the ground or flow away
from the spill location. In such conditions, consider when the spill was first detected and
observations from bystanders in order to determine the total spill volume.
6.10 
WATER QUALITY SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS
Water quality sampling and testing must be completed for spills that are 50,000 gallons or
greater and enter surface waters, where feasible and safe. The purpose of water quality
sampling is to determine the extent and impact of the spill. The water quality sampling
procedures must be conducted as follows:
•
Spill Responders should attempt to collect samples as soon as possible after the
discovery and mitigation of the spill event. The samples must be analyzed by the
laboratory within 6 hours of collection. Therefore, it is best practice to collect the samples
during laboratory hours. Sample collection should follow the procedures outlined in
Appendix 6.6.
•
Required sample locations are listed in Table 6-3. The County may require additional
sample locations. The distance above and below the sample point should be selected by
the City as appropriate for the spill location. Often, samples are taken 100 feet upstream
Last Update: May 2025
6-10
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
155 of 891

--- page 156 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
and downstream of the spill location, and also at the spill location in flowing water (e.g.,
creeks) where the safety of personnel would not be put at risk.
Table 6-3. Sampling Locations for Spills 50,000 Gallons or Greater That Enter Surface
Waters
Sampling Location
Description
DCS-001
A point in a drainage conveyance system before the drainage
conveyance system flow discharges into a receiving water.
RSW-001 Point of
Discharge
A point in the receiving water where sewage initially enters the
receiving water.
RSW-001U: Upstream of
Point of Discharge
A point in the receiving water, upstream of the point of sewage
discharge, to capture ambient conditions absent of sewage
discharge impacts.
RSW-001D: Downstream of
Point of Discharge
A point in the receiving water, downstream of the point of
sewage discharge, where the spill material is fully mixed with the
receiving water.
•
•
•
The samples shall then be brought to the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP)
Laboratory for coliform analysis (Total coliform, E. coli and Enterococcus).
In addition, Ammonia samples should be placed in the sample refrigerator for pickup by
CalTest Laboratories (call to notify them samples are ready for pickup).
If the WWTP Laboratory is unable to analyze the coliform samples, they must be
transported to the San Mateo County Public Health Laboratory for analysis. The
ammonia samples will remain in the refrigerator (WWTP Lab) for pickup by Caltest
Laboratories. Lab contact information is listed in Table 6-4.
Table 6-4. Laboratory Information
Laboratory
Address
Contact Info
City of San Mateo Wastewater 
2050 Detroit Drive
(650) 522-7381
Treatment Plant Laboratory
San Mateo County Public
Health Laboratory
San Mateo, CA 94404
225 W. 37th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
1885 N. Kelly Road
Napa, CA 94558
(650) 573-2500
(707) 258-4000
Caltest Laboratory
•
If the County Public Health Lab is Closed:
o If the County Health Lab will be opening within 5 hours from the time the samples
were collected, keep samples in a refrigerator or in the cooler containing the cold
packs/ice and immediately deliver samples as soon as the County Lab opens for
business.
o Otherwise, calls the County Health Lab’s After Hours Contact List shown in Table 6-5
(starting with #1 – Office/Pager/Cell) and arrange to meet a lab analyst to receive
samples during off-hours.
Last Update: May 2025
6-11
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
156 of 891

--- page 157 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
•
•
Sample analysis must be conducted according to sufficiently sensitive test methods
approved under 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 136 for the sample analysis of
pollutants. A method is considered sufficiently sensitive when the minimum level of the
analytical method approved under 40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 136 is at or below
the receiving water pollutant criteria; and
The analysis of water quality samples must be performed by a laboratory that has
accreditation pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with section 100825) of Chapter 4 of Part
1 of Division 101 of the Health and Safety Code. (Water Code section 13176(a).) The
State Water Board accredits laboratories through its Environmental Laboratory
Accreditation Program (ELAP).
Table 6-5 lists water quality sampling staff and contact information.
Table 6-5. Water Quality Sampling Contact Information
Location
Contact Person
Phone Number
City of San Mateo WWTP
Lab Supervisor
650-522-7388 (office)
530-304-3376 (cell)
Xiongbing Liang
City of San Mateo WWTP
Lab Analyst
Mary Buffington
650-522-7293
LAB HOURS 6:30am to 3:30pm
650-522-7359 (office)
650-483-5839 (cell)
Collection System Contact
Tony Baltodano
June Wong
San Mateo County Public Health
Lab
650-573-2456 (office)
650-339-2322 (cell)
225 W. 37th Ave, Room 113
After Hours:
June Wong
650-632-1193 (pager)
LAB HOURS:
650-339-2322 (cell)
650-594-1338 (home)
MON – FRI 8am to 5pm
Sangeeta Singh
650-235-6755 (cell)
650-573-2500
6.11 
SPILL TECHNICAL REPORT
For Category 1 spills of 50,000 gallons or more, a Spill Technical Report must be prepared and
submitted to the CIWQS online spill database within 45 calendar days of the spill end date. The
Spill Technical Report must include, at a minimum, the following:
1. Spill causes and circumstances, including at a minimum:
a. Complete and detailed explanation of how and when the spill was discovered;
b. Photographs illustrating the spill origin, the spill flow path, the extent of the spill,
drainage conveyance system entrance and exit, receiving water, and post-cleanup
site conditions;
c. Diagram showing the spill failure point, appearance point(s), and final destination(s);
Last Update: May 2025
6-12
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
157 of 891

--- page 158 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
d. Detailed description of the methodology employed, and available data used to
calculate the discharge volume and, if applicable, the recovered spill volume;
Detailed description of the cause(s) of the spill; Copies of the original field crew
records used to document the spill; and
e. Historical maintenance records for the failure location.
2. Response to spill:
a. Chronological narrative description of all actions taken to terminate the spill;
b. Explanation of how the SERP was implemented to respond to and mitigate the spill;
and
c. Final corrective action(s) completed and/or planned to be completed, and a schedule
for planned corrective actions, including:
i.
Local regulatory enforcement action taken against an illicit discharge in
response to this spill, as applicable;
ii. 
Identifiable system modifications, and operation and maintenance program
modifications needed to prevent repeated spill occurrences; and
iii. 
Necessary modifications to the SERP to incorporate lessons learned in
responding to and mitigating the spill.
3. Water Quality Monitoring, including at minimum:
a. Description of all water quality sampling activities conducted including analytical
results and evaluation of the results;
b. List of pollutant and parameters monitored, sampled, and analyzed;
c. Laboratory results, including laboratory reports;
d. Detailed location map illustrating all water quality sampling points; and
e. Other regulatory agencies receiving sample results (if applicable).
4. Evaluation of spill impact(s), including a description of short-term and long-term
impact(s) to beneficial uses of the surface water.
The Public Works Supervisor is responsible for the development and certification of the Spill
Technical Report. The Spill Technical Report template can be found in Appendix 6.7 of this
document.
6.12 
SPILL RESPONSE WITHIN PRIVATE PROPERTY
In the event that a spill occurs at a private property, the City will dispatch Maintenance crew and
notify the resident of the need to access their property and inspect the sewer system located in
the sewer easement. Residents should call the Department of Public Works Sewer Maintenance
at (650) 522-7300 for any questions or concerns with property access and work performed at
the property. A summary of easement access procedures is located in Appendix 6.2 Exhibit C of
this document.
If a spill is caused by a sewer lateral backup or blockage on commercial or multifamily
residential buildings, the owner(s) of the property served by the private sewer lateral shall be
responsible for inspecting, testing the lateral, and providing the results to the City. This is a
requirement per City Municipal Code 7.38.432 PRIVATE SEWER LATERALS.
Last Update: May 2025
6-13
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
158 of 891

--- page 159 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6-14
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
159 of 891

--- page 160 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION & DOCUMENTATION
6.13 
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION PROCEDURE
The following items provide a guideline for the City’s investigation and documentation
procedure.
1. Photograph spill site throughout mitigation efforts as appropriate.
i. Upon arrival (close-up to determine volume & further away to show location and
affected areas).
ii. After barricading/posting.
iii. After containment.
iv. After completing disinfection and clean-up.
2. Fill out the sewer Spill Field Form kept in all sewer vehicles (see Appendix 6.3).
3. Attempt to capture the time of the start of the spill if not already known.
4. Provide accurate flow measurements and duration of spill (see Appendix 6.4).
5. Provide map of problem location [manhole(s) involved] and where the spill discharged to
(e.g., storm drain, field, stream; etc.).
6. CCTV mainline as soon as possible and/or feasible.
7. Ensure all photos, forms, maps & CCTV get logged in spill binder and into Cartegraph
CMMS program.
6.14 
POST-SPILL ANALYSIS
For each spill event that is a Category 1 spill, all participants involved in the response – from the
person who received the call to the last person to leave the site – should meet as soon as
feasible after the event to review and evaluate the incident and the City’s response procedures.
The objective of the post-spill analysis is to determine actions necessary, if any, to reduce the
recurrence of spills and better mitigate the effects of spills.
The post-spill analysis is intended to determine if additional maintenance, repair/replacement or
other follow-up actions or response procedures changes are needed to reduce or eliminate the
likelihood of future spills. The procedures for investigating a spill are as follows:
•
•
•
Review and complete the Sewer Spill Report.
Review the incident timeline and other documentation regarding the incident.
Review actions by all persons involved in the response, including the initial recipient of
the complaint.
•
•
Reviewing communications with all reporting parties and witnesses.
Review volume estimate, volume recovered estimate, volume estimation assumptions,
and associated drawings.
•
•
Review available photographs.
Interview staff that responded to the spill.
Last Update: May 2025
6-15
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
160 of 891

--- page 161 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
•
•
Review past maintenance records of all affected manholes and pipe segments.
Conduct a CCTV inspection to determine the condition of the line segment immediately
following the spill and reviewing the video and logs.
•
Review any FOG related information or results that identify any changes or additions
needed to the SERP and SSMP following the event.
The product of the post-spill analysis should be the determination of the root cause of the spill to
the best extent possible and identification of corrective actions.
Last Update: May 2025
6-16
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
161 of 891

--- page 162 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL REPORTING PROCEDURES/ REGULATORY NOTIFICATION
6.15 
DOCUMENTATION
In accordance with the WDR, the City maintains records for each sanitary sewer spill.
1. Records are retained for at least five (5) years
2. Records are readily available, either electronic or hard copies, for review by Water Board
staff during onsite inspections or through an information request
3. Records are retained for each of the following spill-related events and activities:
a. Spill event complaints
b. Category 4 spills (in addition to documentation needed for Cat 1 through 3 draft
reports and certifications)
c. Sewer system telemetry records
d. Sewer system management plan implementation records
e. Audit records
f. Equipment Records
g. Work orders
Specific requirements for recordkeeping are listed further in the sections below. The records are
maintained at the City office and are also entered into the City’s CMMS system. The City also
maintains records of complaints received, even if the complaint does not relate to a City spill.
6.15.1 Spill Event Complaints
The City shall maintain records for each of the following spill-related events and activities:
•
Spill event complaint, including but not limited to records documenting how the City
responded to notifications of spills. Each complaint record must, at a minimum, include
the following information:
o Date, time, and method of notification;
o Date and time the complainant first noticed the spill, if available;
o Narrative description of the complaint, including any information the caller provided
regarding whether the spill has reached surface waters or a drainage conveyance
system, if available;
o Complainant’s contact information, if available; and
o Final resolution of the complaint.
•
•
Records documenting the steps and/or remedial action(s) undertaken by the City;
Records documenting how estimate(s) of volume(s) and, if applicable, volume(s) of spill
recovered were calculated;
•
•
All California Office of Emergency Services notification records, as applicable; and
Water quality monitoring records.
Last Update: May 2025
6-17
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
162 of 891

--- page 163 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.15.2 Recordkeeping of Category 4 Spills (in addition to other records needed for Cat 1
through 3 spills, as listed below under “Reporting”)
The City shall maintain the following records for each individual Category 4 spill:
•
Contact information: Name and telephone number of City contact person to respond to
spill-specific questions;
•
•
•
Spill location name;
Description and GPS coordinates for the system location where the spill originated;
Did the spill reach a drainage conveyance system? If Yes:
o Description of drainage conveyance system location;
o Estimated spill volume fully recovered within the drainage conveyance system;
o Estimated spill volume remaining within the drainage conveyance system; and
o Estimated total spill volume exiting the sanitary sewer system.
Spill date and start time;
•
•
•
•
Spill cause(s) (for example, root intrusion, grease deposition, etc.);
System failure location (for example, main, pump station, etc.);
Description of spill response activities including description of immediate spill
containment and cleanup efforts;
•
Description of how the volume estimation was calculated, including, at minimum:
o The methodology and type of data relied upon, including supervisory control and
data acquisition (SCADA) records, flow monitoring or other telemetry information
used to estimate the volume of the spill discharged, and the volume of the spill
recovered (if any volume of the spill was recovered); and
o The methodology and type of data relied upon to estimate the spill start time, on-
going spill rate at time of arrival (if applicable), and the spill end time.
•
Description of implemented system modifications and operating/maintenance
modifications.
6.15.3 Recordkeeping for Total Annual Spill Information
The City shall keep the following records summarizing annual spills:
•
•
Estimated total annual spill volume;
Description of spill corrective actions, including at minimum:
o Local regulatory enforcement action taken against the sewer lateral owner in
response to a spill, as applicable; and
o System operation, maintenance and program modifications implemented to
prevent repeated spill occurrences at the same spill location.
Last Update: May 2025
6-18
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
163 of 891

--- page 164 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.15.4 Sewer System Telemetry Records
The City shall maintain the following sewer system telemetry records if used to document
compliance with Statewide WDR (e.g., used to develop volume estimates):
•
•
•
Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system(s);
Alarm system(s);
Flow monitoring device(s) or other instrument(s) used to estimate sewage flow rates,
and/or volumes;
•
•
Computerized maintenance management system records; and
Asset management-related records.
6.15.5 Sewer System Management Plan Implementation Records
The City shall maintain records documenting the implementation of its Sewer System
Management Plan, including documents supporting its Sewer System Management Plan audits,
corrections, modifications, and updates to the Sewer System Management Plan.
6.15.6 Audit Records
The City shall maintain, at minimum, the following records pertaining to its Sewer System
Management Plan audits, and other internal audits:
•
•
Completed audit documents and findings;
Name and contact information of staff and/or consultants that conducted or involved in
the audit; and
•
Follow-up actions based on audit findings.
6.15.7 Equipment Records (List)
The City shall maintain a log of all owned and leased sewer system cleaning, operational,
maintenance, construction, and rehabilitation equipment. This list is included as Appendix 4.7.
6.15.8 Work Orders ‘
The City shall maintain record of work orders for operations and maintenance projects.
6.15.9 Spill Specific Monitoring (Documentation)
Spill-specific monitoring means the gathering of information and data for a specific spill event to
be reported or kept as records. The WDR requires the following assessments, as a component
of data gathering following a spill.
Spill Location and Spread
The City shall visually assess the spill location(s) and spread using photography, global
positioning system (GPS), and other best available tools. The City shall document the critical
spill locations, including:
•
Photography and GPS coordinates for:
Last Update: May 2025
6-19
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
164 of 891

--- page 165 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
o The system location where spill originated; or
o For multiple appearance points of a single spill event, the points closest to the spill
origin.
•
Photography for:
o Drainage conveyance system entry locations;
o The location(s) of discharge into surface waters, as applicable;
o Extent of spill spread; and
o The location(s) of clean up.
Spill Volume Estimation
The City shall estimate the total spill volume using updated volume estimation techniques,
calculations, and documentation for electronic reporting. The City shall update its notification
and reporting of estimated spill volume (which includes spill volume recovered) as further
information is gathered during and after a spill event.
Initial service call information
•
•
•
•
•
Spill Report Form
Copies of the certified CIWQS report forms including volume estimate
CCTV inspection if completed
Water quality sampling and test results, if applicable
Spill Technical Report if prepared
Other Records
In addition to the abovementioned records, the following additional records should also be
retained for all spills when available and as applicable:
•
•
All original recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation
Service call records and complaint logs of calls received by the City for the previous five
years that are associated with spills
•
•
Work orders, work completed, and any other maintenance records from the previous five
years that are associated with spills
Documentation of performance and implementation measures for the previous five years
6.16 
REGULATORY REPORTING
The City shall report any information that is protected by the Homeland Security Act by email to
ciwqs@waterboards.ca.gov, with a brief explanation of the protection provided by the Homeland
Security Act for the subject report to be protected from unauthorized disclosure and/or public
access, and for official Water Board regulatory purposes only.
Last Update: May 2025
6-20
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
165 of 891

--- page 166 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
The sections below summarize the regulatory reporting requirements for spill reporting and
regulatory notification. Table 6-6 on the following page summarizes key deadlines to be aware
of for spill reporting. Table 6-7 summarizes these deadlines by spill category.
Table 6-6 Key Deadlines for Spill Reporting
2 HOURS of being aware of spill
Call Office of Emergency Services & Health
Department if Category 1 sewer main spill is
1000 gallons or more
3 BUSINESS DAYS of being aware of spill
15 CALENDAR DAYS from spill end date
Submit draft reports to CIWQS for Category 1 and
sewer main or Category 2 sewer main spills
Certify Category 1 and Category 2 spills
30 CALENDAR DAYS from end of month if
applicable
Certify Category 3 and/or Category 4 sewer main
spills or submit “No Spill” report
45 CALENDAR DAYS from spill end date
Submit Spill Technical Report for spills 50,000
gallons or larger that reach Waters of the State
90 CALENDAR DAYS from spill end date (Cat 1
or 2) or certified spill report due date (Cat 3)
Submit amended spill report for Category 1
through 3 spills
FEBRUARY 1 of each year
Submit Category 4 spill summary report
Last Update: May 2025
6-21
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
166 of 891

--- page 167 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6-22
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
167 of 891

--- page 168 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Table 6-7 Summary of Spill Reporting Requirements
ELEMENT
REQUIREMENT
METHOD
NOTIFICATION
REPORTING
• Category 1 Spill Greater than 1,000 Gallons:
• Call Cal OES at: (800) 852-7550 and San Mateo County Environmental Health at (510) 267-8000,
o Notify OES within two hours of becoming aware of any Category 1 Spill (i.e., greater than or
equal to 1,000 gallons discharged to Waters of the State. Obtain an OES notification control
number.
o Also notify the County Health Department.
• Category 1 Spill:
• Enter data into the CIWQS Online Spill Database (http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/), certified
by the Legally Responsible Official(s).
o Draft Report within three business days of becoming aware of the spill
o LRO certifies within 15 calendar days of spill end date
• All information required by CIWQS should be captured in the Spill report.
• Category 2 Spill:
• Certified Spill reports may be updated by amending the report or adding an attachment to the Spill
report within 90 calendar days after the Spill end date (for Category 1 and 2 spills) or the date of
the certified report (for Category 3 spills), as applicable. After 90 days, the State and Regional
Board must be contacted to request to amend a Spill report along with a justification for why the
additional information was not available prior to the end of the 90 days.
o Draft Report within 3 business days of becoming aware of the spill
o LRO certifies within 15 calendar days of the spill end date
• Category 3 Spill:
o Certified report within 30 calendar days of the end of month in which the spill occurred
• Category 4 Spill:
o Monthly certify the estimated total spill volume exiting the sanitary sewer system, and the total
number of all Category 4 spills within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar month in which
the spills occurred
o LRO certifies annually a report of all Category 4 spills, by February 1 after the end of the calendar
year in which the spills occurred
• Category 1 Spill Greater than 50,000 Gallons:
o LRO submits a Spill Technical Report within 45 calendar days after the spill end date
• “No Spill” certification :
o LRO certifies that no Spills occurred within 30 calendar days of the end of the month.
• Collection System Questionnaire (to be changed to Annual Report in 2024):
o City updates and certifies every 12 months, with the Annual Report deadline beginning on April
1, 2024.
WATER
• Category 1 Spill Greater than 50,000 Gallons:
• Water quality results will be uploaded into CIWQS for Category 1 Spills in which 50,000 gallons
QUALITY
MONITORING
or greater are spilled to surface waters.
o City conducts water quality sampling within 18 hours after knowledge of the spill for Category 1
Spills in which 50,000 gallons or greater are spilled to a surface water.
Last Update: May 2023
6- 23
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
168 of 891

--- page 169 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2023
6-24
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
169 of 891

--- page 170 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.16.1 Multiple Appearance Points – Single Spill
For reporting purposes, if one spill event of whatever category results in multiple
appearance points in a sewer system, a single spill report is required in CIWQS which
includes the GPS coordinates for the location of the spill appearance point closest to the
failure point, blockage or location of the flow condition that caused the spill, and
descriptions of the locations of all other discharge points associated with the single Spill
event.
6.16.2 2-Hour Notification to Regulatory Agencies of Spills
Cal OES is only to be notified of a Category 1 spill greater than or equal to 1,000 gallons
that discharges to surface water or spilled in a location where it probably will be
discharged to surface water. The First Responder or designee is responsible for reviewing
field data for reporting to regulatory agencies. If it is determined that the criteria for OES
notification was met, then the First Responder or designee must notify OES of the event
no later than two (2) hours after:
1. The City has knowledge of the spill;
2. Notification is possible; and
3. Notification can be provided without substantially impeding cleanup or other
emergency measures.
The OES phone number is (800) 852-7550. The First Responder or designee is
responsible for obtaining an OES Control number.
The following information should be reported to Cal OES, as applicable:
•
Name and phone number of the person notifying the California Office of Emergency
Services;
•
•
•
Estimated spill volume (gallons);
Estimated spill rate from the system (gallons per minute);
Estimated discharge rate (gallons per minute) directly into waters of the State or
indirectly into a drainage conveyance system;
•
Spill incident description, which includes:
o Brief narrative of the spill event, and
o Spill incident location (address, city, and zip code) and closest cross streets
and/or landmarks;
•
•
•
•
•
•
Name and phone number of contact person on-scene;
Date and time the Enrollee was informed of the spill event;
Name of sanitary sewer system causing the spill;
Spill cause or suspected cause (if known);
Amount of spill contained;
Name of receiving water body receiving or potentially receiving discharge; and
Last Update: May 2025
6- 25
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
170 of 891

--- page 171 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
•
Description of water body impact and/ or potential impact to beneficial uses.
Following the initial notification to OES and until the spill report is certified in the SWRCB
online Spill Database, the LRO will provide updates (or provide direction for updates to be
provided) to OES regarding substantial changes to the following information:
•
•
Estimated spill volume (increase or decrease in gallons initially estimated);
Estimated discharge volume discharged directly into waters of the State or indirectly
into a drainage conveyance system (increase or decrease in gallons initially
estimated); and
•
Additional impact(s) to the receiving water(s) and beneficial uses.
6.16.3 Notification of Spill Report Updates
After the initial notification to the OES up until a certified report is certified in the online
CIWQS Sanitary Sewer System Database, the City may provide updates to the OES
regarding substantial changes to:
•
•
Estimated spill volume (increase or decrease in gallons initially estimated);
Estimated discharge volume discharged directly into waters of the State or
indirectly into a drainage conveyance system (increase or decrease in gallons
initially estimated); and
•
Additional impact(s) to the receiving water(s) and beneficial uses
6.16.4 Detailed Reporting Requirements
This section provides details on the City’s regulatory reporting process, which is also
described below.
Spill Reporting for Category 1 Spills
•
•
Cal OES shall receive notification of Category 1 spills of 1,000 gallons or more, as
stated earlier in this Section.
The Data Submitter must then submit the initial draft report to the SWRCB’s
CIWQS Online Spill database @ http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs within 3
business days of becoming aware of the spill.
•
•
•
Table 6-8 on the following page lists information that is required in the draft
Category 1 spill report. This data must be supplemented further during the
certification process, as discussed further below.
Within 15 calendar days of the spill end date, the LRO must review and certify the
report in the CWIQS Online spill database @
http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs.
The Certified Spill Report requires additional information to supplement the data
provided in the draft Spill Report. Table 6-8 on the following page summarizes
information that is required during spill certification.
Last Update: May 2025
6- 26
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
171 of 891

--- page 172 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Table 6-8 Category 1 and 2 CIWQS Draft Spill Report – Required Information
Required Information for Category 1 and 2 Draft Spill Reports
1. Contact information: Name and telephone number of contact person to respond to spill-
specific questions;
2. Spill location name;
3. Date and time the City was notified of, or self-discovered, the spill;
4. Operator arrival time;
5. Estimated spill start date and time;
6. Date and time the City notified the California Office of Emergency Services, and the
assigned control number;
7. Description, photographs, and GPS coordinates of the system location where the spill
originated;
8. If a single spill event results in multiple appearance points, provide GPS coordinates for
the appearance point closest to the failure point and describe each additional appearance
point in the spill appearance point explanation field;
9. Estimated total spill volume exiting the system;
10. Description and photographs of the extent of the spill and spill boundaries;
11. Did the spill reach a drainage conveyance system? If Yes:
a. Description of the drainage conveyance system transporting the spill;
b. Photographs of the drainage conveyance system entry location(s);
c. Estimated spill volume fully recovered from the drainage conveyance system;
d. Estimated spill volume remaining within the drainage conveyance system;
e. Description and photographs of all discharge point(s) into the surface water;
** Items 12 and 13 are required for Category 1 spills only **
12. Estimated spill volume that discharged to surface waters; and
13. Estimated total spill volume recovered.
Spill Reporting for Category 2 Spills
•
Within 3 business days of becoming aware of the spill, the LRO must submit the
initial report to the SWRCB’s CWIQS Online Spill Database @
http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs.
•
•
The draft report shall include Items 1 through 11 from Table 6-8 above.
Within 15 calendar days of the spill end date, the LRO must review and certify the
report in the CWIQS Online Spill Database @
http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs. The Spill Certification must include, in
addition to the information provided in the draft report, Items 1 through 13 of Table
6-9.
•
In addition, the Category 2 Spill Certification must include a new Item 14 - Whether
or not the spill was located within 1,000 feet of a municipal surface water intake.
Last Update: May 2025
6- 27
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
172 of 891

--- page 173 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Table 6-9 Category 1 and 2 CIWQS Spill Certification – Required Information
Required Information for Category 1 and 2 Spill Certification
1. Description of the spill event destination(s), including GPS coordinates if available, that
represent the full spread and reach of the spill;
2. Spill end date and time;
3. Description of how the spill volume estimations were calculated, including at a minimum:
a. The methodology, assumptions and type of data relied upon, such as supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) records, flow monitoring or other telemetry
information used to estimate the volume of the spill discharged, and the volume
of the spill recovered (if any volume of the spill was recovered); and
b. The methodology(ies), assumptions and type of data relied upon for estimations
of the spill start time and the spill end time;
4. Spill cause(s) (for example, root intrusion, grease deposition, etc.);
5. System failure location (for example, main, lateral, pump station, etc.);
6. Description of the pipe material, and estimated age of the pipe material, at the failure
location;
7. Description of the impact of the spill;
8. Whether or not the spill was associated with a storm event;
9. Description of spill response activities including description of immediate spill containment
and cleanup efforts;
10. Description of spill corrective action, including steps planned or taken to reduce, eliminate,
and prevent reoccurrence of the spill, and a schedule of major milestones for those steps;
11. Spill response completion date;
12. Detailed narrative of investigation and investigation findings of cause of spill;
13. Reasons for an ongoing investigation (as applicable) and the expected date of completion;
** Items 14 through 17 are required for Category 1 spills only **
14. Name and type of receiving water body(s);
15. Description of the water body(s), including but not limited to:
16. Observed impacts on aquatic life;
17. Public closure, restricted public access, temporary restricted use, and/or posted health
warnings due to spill;
18. Responsible entity for closing/restricting use of water body; and
19. Number of days closed/restricted as a result of the spill.
20. Whether or not the spill was located within 1,000 feet of a municipal surface water intake;
and
21. If water quality samples were collected, identify sample locations and the parameters the
water quality samples were analyzed for. If no samples were taken, “Not Applicable” shall
be selected.
Monthly Certified Spill Reporting for Individual Category 3 and Category 4 Spills
Within 30 calendar days of the end of the calendar month in which the spill occurred, the
LRO must submit and certify a report to the SWRCB's CWIQS Online Spill database @
Last Update: May 2025
6- 28
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
173 of 891

--- page 174 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs. For each Category 3 spill, the report shall include
the information shown in Table 6-10.
For each Category 4 spill, the report should include the estimated total spill volume exiting
the sanitary sewer system and the total number of all Category 4 spills for the month.
If a spill starts in one calendar month and ends in a subsequent calendar month, and the
City has no further spills of any category, in the subsequent calendar month, the LRO
shall certify “no-spills” for the subsequent calendar month. If the City has no spills from its
systems during a calendar month, but the City voluntarily reported a spill from a private
lateral or a private system, the LRO shall certify “no-spills” for that calendar month.
Table 6-10 Category 3 CIWQS Spill Certification – Required Information
Required Information for Category 3 Spill Certification
1. Contact information: Name and telephone number of Enrollee contact person to respond
to spill-specific questions;
2. Spill location name;
3. Date and time the Enrollee was notified of, or self-discovered, the spill;
4. Operator arrival time;
5. Estimated spill start date and time;
6. Description, photographs, and GPS coordinates where the spill originated:
7. If a single spill event results in multiple appearance points, provide GPS coordinates for
the appearance point closest to the failure point and describe each additional
appearance point in the spill appearance point explanation field;
8. Estimated total spill volume exiting the system;
9. Description and photographs of the extent of the spill and spill boundaries;
10. Did the spill reach a drainage conveyance system? If Yes:
a. Description of the drainage conveyance system transporting the spill;
b. Photographs of the drainage conveyance system entry locations(s);
c. Estimated spill volume fully recovered from the drainage conveyance system;
and
d. Estimated spill volume discharged to a groundwater infiltration basis or facility, if
applicable.
11. Estimated total spill volume recovered;
12. Description of the spill event destination(s), including GPS coordinates, if available, that
represent the full spread and reaches of the spill;
13. Spill end date and time;
14. Description of how the spill volume estimations were calculated, including, at minimum:
a. The methodology and type of data relied upon, including supervisory control and
data acquisition (SCADA) records, flow monitoring or other telemetry information
used to estimate the volume of the spill discharged, and the volume of the spill
recovered (if any volume of the spill was recovered); and
b. The methodology and type of data relied upon to estimate the spill start time,
on-going spill rate at time of arrival (if applicable), and the spill end time.
15. Spill cause(s) (for example, root intrusion, grease deposition, etc.);
Last Update: May 2025
6- 29
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
174 of 891

--- page 175 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Required Information for Category 3 Spill Certification
16. System failure location (for example, main, pump station, etc.);
17. Description of the pipe/infrastructure material, and estimated age of the
pipe/infrastructure material, at the failure location;
18. Description of the impact of the spill;
19. Whether or not the spill was associated with a storm event;
20. Description of spill response activities including description of immediate spill
containment and cleanup efforts;
21. Description of spill corrective actions, including steps planned or taken to reduce,
eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the spill, and a schedule of the major milestones
for those steps; including, at minimum:
a. Local regulatory enforcement action taken against an illicit discharge in
response to this spill, as applicable, and
b. Identifiable system modifications, and operation and maintenance program
modifications needed to prevent repeated spill occurrences at the same spill
event location, including:
i. Adjusted schedule/method of preventive maintenance;
ii. Planned rehabilitation or replacement of sanitary sewer asset;
iii. Inspected, repaired asset(s), or replaced defective asset(s);
iv. Capital improvements;
v. Documentation verifying immediately implemented system modifications
and operating/maintenance modifications;
vi. Description of spill response activities;
vii. Spill response completion date; and
viii. Ongoing investigation efforts, and expected completion date of
investigation to determine the full cause of spill.
22. Detailed narrative of investigation and investigation findings of cause of spill.
Monthly Spill Reporting for No Spills
Within 30 calendar days of the end of the calendar month in which there are no spills, the
LRO must submit and certify a “No Spill” certification to the SWRCB's CWIQS Online spill
database @ http://ciwqs.waterboards.ca.gov/ciwqs.
Annual Spill Reporting for Category 4 Spills
By February 1st after the end of the calendar year in which any Category 4 spills occurred,
the LRO must upload and certify a report, in an acceptable digital format, of all Category 4
spills for that year.
6.16.5 CIWQS Not Available
In the event that the CIWQS online Spill database is not available, the LRO must fax all
required information to the RWQCB office at (510) 622-2460 and the SWRCB at
ciwqs@waterboards.ca.gov in accordance with the time schedules identified above. In
such an event, the City should then submit the appropriate reports using the CIWQS
online spill database when the database becomes available. A copy of all documents that
certify the submittal in fulfillment of this section shall be retained in the spill document file.
Last Update: May 2025
6- 30
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
175 of 891

--- page 176 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
6.16.6 Amending Spill Reports
The LRO is responsible for amending Category 1, 2, and 3 spill reports. Certified Spill
reports may be updated by amending the report or adding an attachment to the Spill
report within 90 calendar days after the Spill end date. After 90 days, the City must
contact the State Water Board to request to amend a Spill report along with a justification
for why the additional information was not available prior to the end of the 90 days.
For any no-spill certifications, spill event deletions or unlocking, and SSMP inquiries,
these should be directed to: ciwqs@waterboards.ca.gov
6.16.7 CIWQS – Electronic Reporting to State Water Board
The California Integrated Water Quality System (CIWQS) is a computer system used by
the State Water Resources Control Board to track information about places of
environmental interest, manage permits and other orders, track inspections, and manage
violations and enforcement activities. CIWQS also allows online submittal of information
by Permittees within certain programs and makes data available to the public through
reports.
The City’s LRO is responsible for submitting and certifying each Spill report in CIWQS.
The CWIQS reporting procedure is outlined in the Discharger Workbook available at the
State and Regional Water Quality Control Board website and at this link:
http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/water_issues/programs/sso/docs/discharger_workbook.pdf
Required timelines for reporting are repeated for clarity on Table 6-11 on the following
page.
Last Update: May 2025
6- 31
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
176 of 891

--- page 177 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Last Update: May 2025
6- 32
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
177 of 891

--- page 178 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
TRAINING
6.17 
SPILL RESPONSE TRAINING
This section provides information on the training that is required to support this Spill
Emergency Response Plan.
6.18 
INITIAL AND ANNUAL REFRESHER TRAINING
Per the Statewide WDR, the City must ensure that appropriate staff and contracts
implement the Spill Emergency Response Plan and are appropriately trained. All training
is provided to City staff, as Contractors are not used during spill response, operations, or
maintenance activities. See Element 3.
All City personnel who may have a role in responding to, reporting, and/or mitigating a
sewer system spill must receive training on the contents of this SERP. All new employees
must receive training before they are placed in a position where they may have to
respond. Current employees receive refresher training on this plan and the procedures to
be followed approximately annually.
The Sewer Maintenance Supervisor verifies that annual safety training requirements are
current for each employee, and that employees are competent in the performance of all
core competencies. The City addresses, through additional training/instruction, identified
gaps in required core competencies.
6.19 
SPILL RESPONSE DRILLS
Periodic training drills are held to ensure that employees are up to date on these
procedures, equipment is in working order, and the required materials are readily
available. The training drills cover scenarios typically observed during sewer related
emergencies. The results and the observations during the drills are recorded and action
items are tracked to ensure completion. The Sewer Maintenance Supervisor collects sign-
in sheet for every Spill Response Drill conducted.
6.20 
SPILL TRAINING RECORD KEEPING
Records are kept of all training that is provided in support of this plan. The records for all
scheduled training courses and for each spill emergency response training event include
date, time, place, content, name of trainer(s), and names of attendees. The Sewer
Maintenance Supervisor collects sign-in sheet for every spill response drill conducted.
6.21 
APPENDIX 6 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 6
The following items are included as an Appendix to Element 6:
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
Contingency Equipment
Spill Field Procedures
Investigation and Documentation Forms
Spill Calculation and Estimation
Signage and Posting Procedures
Water Quality Monitoring Program
Spill Technical Report Template
Last Update: May 2025
6- 33
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
178 of 891

--- page 179 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
CITY OF SAN MATEO – SEWER MAINTENANCE
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May 2025
6- 34
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 6: SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
179 of 891

--- page 180 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
ELEMENT 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
Each Enrollee shall evaluate its service area to determine whether a sewer pipe
blockage control program is needed to control fats, oils, and grease (FOG), rags, and
debris. If an Enrollee determines that a sewer pipe blockage control program is not
needed, the Enrollee must provide justification for why it is not needed. If a program is
needed, it must include:
•
An implementation plan and schedule for a public education outreach program
that promotes proper disposal of pipe blockage substances;
•
A plan and schedule for the disposal of pipe blocking substances generated
within the sanitary sewer system service area. This may include a list of
acceptable disposal facilities and/or additional facilities needed to adequately
dispose of substances generated within a sanitary sewer system service area;
•
•
The legal authority to prohibit discharges to the system and identify measures to
prevent spills and blockages;
Requirements to install grease removal devices (such as traps or interceptors),
design standards for the removal devices, maintenance requirements, best
management practice (BMP) requirements, record keeping and reporting
requirements;
•
Authority to inspect grease producing facilities, enforcement authorities, and
whether the Enrollee has sufficient staff to inspect and enforce the FOG
ordinance;
•
•
An identification of sanitary sewer system sections subject to FOG blockages
and establishment of a cleaning schedule for each section; and
Implementation of source control measures for all sources of FOG reaching to
the sanitary sewer system for each section identified above.
This chapter provides a description of the City’s FOG Source Control Program and a
discussion of pipe blockage control within the sewer system. This FOG Source Control
Program and pipe blockage control processes are intended to be updated and modified by
the City as necessary to more closely reflect operating conditions and changes that may
occur in sewer management procedures.
7.1
BACKGROUND
A FOG Source Control Program was initiated in 1995 in an effort to reduce FOG-related
sewer line cleaning, FOG buildup in lift stations, and grease collection / removal at the
WWTP. At that time, a field survey determined that there were over 300 commercial food
service facilities (i.e., FOG generators) in the service area, with and without grease control
devices. Routine inspections of food service facilities began in 1996. In 1999, the City’s
Municipal Code was revised to require retroactively that food service facilities install
grease control devices that conform to the current version of the Uniform Plumbing Code
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
180 of 891

--- page 181 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
(UPC). The City also began issuing Waste Discharge Permits in order to mandate service
frequencies for the grease removal devices, and thereby further reduce discharges of
FOG to the sanitary sewer system.
A list of food service establishments (FSEs) that includes inspection priority, inspection
frequency, and the required frequency for cleaning out grease removal devices is included
in Appendix 7.1, Exhibit 7.1I. The FSE must hire a private service provider to receive off-
hauled grease, as discussed further in Section 7.3.
As related to other potential sources of pipe blockage, such as roots, rags or debris, the
City has pre-existing programs that are discussed further in Element 4. These programs
include the hot spot program, root control program, and repair and replacement program.
The City uses data from CIWQS and from cleaning and CCTV operations to help develop,
refine, and update these programs. In order to continue to improve these programs, the
City is in the process of evaluating prior spills, spill cause, spill location, and locations with
repeat spills in conjunction with the hot spot program, root control program, and pipe
repair priorities to determine if these programs require adjustment to accommodate
additional locations. Any changes to the hot spot program, root control program, or pipe
repair priorities will be documented in future updates to the SSMP.
7.2
PUBLIC EDUCATION OUTREACH
The City distributes outreach materials developed internally and by other municipalities
and/or programs as described below. Example outreach materials are included in
Appendix 7.1, Exhibit 7.1A.
Outreach to Commercial Food Service Facilities. The City’s Regulatory Compliance
Inspectors distribute outreach materials, if necessary, during each commercial food
service facility inspection; they encourage managers of food service facilities to use the
information to train employees upon hire and at least annually thereafter. City Inspectors
typically distribute a City-produced brochure titled Required Best Management Practices
for Food Service Facilities that contains information on BMPs for the FOG and Stormwater
programs. On the backside is Municipal Code Applicable to Food Service Establishments
for reference. The brochure is provided in English, Spanish, and Chinese.
City inspectors also distribute a one-page handout provided by the San Mateo
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program (SMCWPPP) titled, Best Management
Practices for Food Service Facilities. This is available in English, Spanish and Chinese. A
laminated poster for proper grease disposal titled No Grease Down the Drain – Keep
Drains Flowing is provided during initial inspections for posting in the dishwash area of the
kitchen. The poster is available in English, Spanish, Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese.
Additional FOG control outreach materials are available and are distributed as
opportunities arise
Residential Outreach. Outreach materials are available and on display at City Hall and
are available online at the City’s website:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/146/Best-Management-Practices
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
181 of 891

--- page 182 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
Public service announcements may be published prior to major holidays to remind City
residents of prudent food waste handling practices. A FOG BMP poster and the WEF “Fat
Free Sewers” brochure is mailed to apartment complexes as needed, and subsequent to
finding a FOG buildup in the sewer at or immediately downstream of an apartment
connection. If necessary, the FOG brochure is distributed to all homes upstream of a
recurring blockage.
The City is developing similar outreach materials to educate the public about materials
other than FOG, such as non-disposable “disposable” wipes, that should not be flushed
into the sewer. When these outreach materials are available for distribution, a copy of the
materials will be included in the SSMP appendices.
7.3
FOG DISPOSAL
FOG generators are responsible for hiring private service providers to haul off FOG
wastes for disposal. Although City staff does not endorse services provided by any one
service provider, the City provides a list of service providers that are commonly used by
businesses in the service area. The lists of service providers are shown in Tables 7-1 and
7-2.
Table 7-1. Grease Waste Service Providers
Contractors with a (*) are also listed in Table 7-2
Service Provider
A-1 Septic Tank Service
Able Septic
All Valley Environmental*
Ameriguard Maintenance
Services*
Phone Number
Website
(510) 886-4455 
https://ww.aitank.net
(408) 377-9990 
https://www.ablesewer.com
(559) 498-8378 
https://allvalleyenv.com
(800) 347-7876 
https://ameriguardsvc.com
Bay Area Restaurant
Services
(888) 994-0753 
http://www.bayarea restaurantsvcs.com
DAR PRO Solutions, Inc.*
(855) 327-7761 
https://www.darpro-solutions.com/
Grease Trap Cleaners*
(510) 751-0286 
https://www.thegreasetrapcleaners.com
Interstate Restaurant
Services*
(844) 457-6572 
https://www.interstateoil.com/interstate-
restaurant-services/
KB Grease
(650) 660-5144
Liquid Environmental
Solutions*
(866) 694-7326 
https://www.liquidenviro.com/
Mahoney Environmental*
Sacramento Rendering Co
(SRC)
(800) 447-3794 
https://mahoneyes.com
(800) 339-6493 
http://srccompanies.com
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
182 of 891

--- page 183 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
Table 7-2. Accept Used Cooking Oil
Contractors with a (*) are also listed in Table 7-1
Service Provider
Phone Number
Website
All Valley Environmental*
Ameriguard Maintenance
Services*
(559) 498-8378 
https://allvalleyenv.com
(800) 347-7876 
https://ameriguardsvc.com
DAR PRO Solutions, Inc.*
(855) 327-7761 
https://www.darpro-solutions.com/
Grease Trap Cleaners*
(510) 751-0286 
https://www.thegreasetrapcleaners.com
Interstate Restaurant
Services*
(844) 457-6572 
https://www.interstateoil.com/interstate-
restaurant-services/
Liquid Environmental
Solutions*
(866) 694-7326 
https://www.liquidenviro.com/
Mahoney Environmental*
One More Time
Restaurant Technologies
(800) 447-3794 
https://mahoneyes.com
(323) 526-3838 
https://onemoretimeinc.com
(866) 399-3802 
https://www.rti-inc.com
7.4
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The City’s legal authority to prevent illicit discharges to the sewer system is discussed in
Element 3.
The City of San Mateo manages the FOG control program throughout the City. In addition,
the City inspects Estero Municipal Improvement District (EMID) food service facilities but
does not maintain this infrastructure or provide outreach. The City and EMID Sanitary
Sewer Use Ordinances, as contained in each entity’s Municipal Code, are nearly identical;
each provides the legal authority to implement a FOG Control Program. A summary of
the enabling authority is summarized in Table 7-2 on the following page.
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
183 of 891

--- page 184 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
Table 7-2. FOG Legal Authority
Municipal Code Section Title
CSM
EMID
7.38.030
8.37.030
Definitions of “Food Service Facility” and “Grease”.
7.38.100
7.38.110
8.37.100
8.37.110
Pretreatment of Industrial Waste: (c) Food Service Facilities.
General Discharge Prohibitions: (a) any wastes that interfere
with, inhibit damage or disrupt any wastewater conveyance.
Specific Discharge Prohibitions: (e) Solids or Viscous Materials;
(h) Oil and Grease.
Requirements for Food Service Facilities: (a) Install a
pretreatment system for grease removal which meets or
exceeds minimum sizing requirements of the UPC by no later
than January 1, 2001.
7.38.120
7.38.160
8.37.120
8.37.160
7.38.210
7.38.350
8.37.210
8.37.350
Waste Discharge Permits: (b) The City/District may require
users to obtain waste discharge permits as necessary to carry
out the purposes of the ordinance.
Authority to Inspect and Monitor: City/District is authorized to
conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures
necessary to assure compliance with the ordinance.
Compliance with the ordinance.
Administrative Remedies.
Civil Penalties.
Criminal Penalties.
7.38.440
7.38.460
7.38.480
7.38.490
8.37.430
8.37.450
8.37.460
8.37.460
Example permitting documents (including a permit), a list of Best Management Practices,
and a Pretreatment Maintenance Log are included in Appendix 7.1, Exhibits 7.1B through
7.1F.
7.5
GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE REQUIREMENTS
The City’s Municipal Code section 7.38.160 (EMID Municipal Code section 8.37.160)
requires that food service facilities must install a pretreatment system for grease removal
that meets or exceeds minimum sizing requirements of the Uniform Building Code. Both
entities’ codes further require that these pretreatment systems be permitted (Waste
Discharge Permit), inspected monthly or more frequently as needed, and that a record be
kept of the date of the inspection, any maintenance performed, and disposition of the
contents (i.e., FOG) removed. Failure to operate or maintain the grease removal system in
a way that ensures optimal efficiency, or failure to keep records of system maintenance,
constitutes a violation of the ordinance.
7.6
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS)
The City’s FOG Control Program places emphasis on six major BMPs that should be
implemented by food service facilities and other FOG generators within the service area.
These BMPs are summarized as follows:
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
184 of 891

--- page 185 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
•
•
Employee Training and Awareness: This BMP recommends that all employees
and FOG-producing establishments be adequately trained on activities to reduce
FOG disposal into the sanitary sewer system.
Garbage Grinder Elimination/Limitation: This BMP recommends that FOG
generators eliminate garbage grinders or limit their use to the greatest extent
possible, thereby reducing the amount of food particles that enter the sanitary
sewer system with the potential to clog the system. Additionally, the use of drain
screens is recommended by this BMP to capture food and other particles in order
to prevent them from being discharged into the sanitary sewer system. These
screens should be cleaned frequently and emptied into the trash.
•
•
•
•
Spill Cleanup: This BMP emphasizes the use of dry-cleaning methods for cleaning
up spills. If dry methods are insufficient, water use and discharge to the sanitary
sewer should be limited as much as possible.
Equipment Cleaning and Maintenance: This BMP recommends that FOG
generators limit the discharge of FOG to the sanitary sewer system to the greatest
extent possible in the regular cleaning and maintenance of equipment.
Grease Handling and Disposal: This BMP requires that oils, grease or other oily
liquids (such as salad dressing) should not be discharged in large quantities to the
sanitary sewer system. These materials should be recycled, if possible.
Grease Removal Devices: This BMP requires that FOG generators install and
maintain grease removal devices.
Because not all FOG problems are caused by food service facilities, residential and
private dwelling customers are also urged to adopt the aforementioned BMPs, as
applicable.
7.7
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
City and EMID ordinances include provisions for the inspection of FOG-generating
facilities, as well as enforcement actions available in the event of violations.
7.7.1 Inspection
The authority for City officials to inspect food service facilities and other FOG-generating
facilities for compliance with this Program is provided in City Municipal Code Section
7.38.350 (EMID Municipal Code Section 8.37.350).
Inspections are conducted to assess compliance with waste discharge permit
requirements, and it is the City’s goal to inspect each FOG-generating facility a minimum
of once every five-year permit term depending on compliance. Facilities given a
designation of “High Priority” are subject to annual inspections. Facilities given a
designation of “Low Priority” are subject to less frequent inspections (once per five-year
term). Compliance status is determined by visual inspection of the pretreatment system,
interview with the owner/staff about general operations and waste handling; and a review
of documentation of pretreatment system maintenance, pretreatment system waste
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
185 of 891

--- page 186 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
disposal and employee training. Waste stream monitoring and analysis is not required
and is not ordinarily used to determine compliance. It is the goal of the City to inspect new
facilities within the first year of operation. An example inspection form is included in
Appendix 7, Exhibit 7.1G.
An inspection may also be triggered by a line blockage determined to be the result of FOG
accumulation, or preventive maintenance in which an accumulation of FOG is discovered.
Potential FOG problem areas consist mainly of trunk line segments in commercial districts
that serve a high concentration of food service facilities and also include areas with multi-
family dwelling complexes. These areas are well-known and addressed by increased
preventive maintenance of the sewer mains, as discussed in Section 7.8. Newly
discovered sewer backups/blockages are usually due to a combination of factors,
including grease, line sags, and roots.
7.7.2 Enforcement Actions
Enforcement remedies available in response to violations of City and EMID ordinances
pertaining to FOG are detailed in each entity’s ordinance and in the Enforcement
Response Plan. Items typically found to be deficient during an inspection and the resulting
enforcement action taken are summarized below in Table 7-3.
Table 7-3. FOG Findings and Response
Inspection Finding
Pretreatment system operation &
maintenance (O&M) records not
maintained.
Enforcement Response
Warning Notice
Inadequate Pretreatment System
Maintenance
Warning Notice
No Wastewater Discharge Permit
No Grease Removal Device
First (and subsequent) follow-up
inspection finds failure to comply with
corrective action specified in Notice of
Violation.
Warning Notice
Warning Notice
Notice of Violation, Failure to Comply
with a Notice of Violation, or
Administrative Citation (Fines/Fees)
The City may choose to issue a verbal warning for less serious offenses. In cases where a
facility has a history of FOG buildup and/or blockages, both ordinances include a provision
for requiring increased service frequency, installing additional pretreatment capacity or
equipment, and/or reimbursement of City costs associated with increased preventative
maintenance. Remedies described herein are not exclusive; the City may take a
combination of actions specified in the Sewer Use Ordinance against a noncompliant
User, as well as any other enforcement remedies that that the City may have available.
7.8
SERVICE AREA FOG EVALUATION
The identification of hot spots within the service area is ongoing; hot spots are identified
based on reports of blockages and through closed-circuit television inspection (CCTV)
findings. Known problem areas are prioritized based on qualitative findings of previous
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 7
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
186 of 891

--- page 187 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
preventive maintenance results, such as a surcharged condition, grease collection on the
hydro-jetting nozzle, or through closed-circuit television inspection (CCTV) findings. A
table listing problem areas and a map of high-priority FOG-related segments (“target
areas”) are included in Appendix 7.1, Exhibit 7.1H. High-priority FOG segments are put
on a monthly, quarterly, or bi-annual preventive maintenance schedule. Findings are
forwarded to the Environmental Compliance Program for follow-up inspection. The
segment will remain on a quarterly preventative maintenance schedule until subsequent
observations determine that the potential for obstruction or blockage has been reduced or
eliminated. The preventive maintenance schedule for these line segments, as well as a
map depicting problem areas, is provided in Appendix 7.1, Exhibit 7.1H.
7.9
APPENDIX 7 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 7
Exhibit 7.1A – Outreach Materials (commercial & residential)
Exhibit 7.1B – Waste Discharge Permit (WDP)
Exhibit 7.1C – WDP Standard Terms, Conditions & Requirements
Exhibit 7.1D – Best Management Practices for Food Service Facilities
Exhibit 7.1E – Pretreatment System Maintenance Log
Exhibit 7.1F – Waste Discharge Permits Q&A
Exhibit 7.1G – Inspection Form (Food Service Facility)
Exhibit 7.1H – Preventative Maintenance: FOG Hot Spots (Schedule and Map)
Exhibit 7.1I – City of San Mateo and EMID Food Service Establishment
Inspection Frequency and Other Information
Last Update: May, 2025
7 - 8
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 7: SEWER PIPE BLOCKAGE CONTROL PROGRAM
187 of 891

--- page 188 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SYSTEM EVALUATION, CAPACITY ASSURANCE, AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS
ELEMENT 8: SYSTEM EVALUATION, CAPACITY ASSURANCE
AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
•
The Plan must include procedures and activities for:
o
o
o
o
Routine evaluation and assessment of system conditions;
Capacity assessment and design criteria;
Prioritization of corrective actions; and
A capital improvement plan.
•
Required components include:
o
o
o
o
System Evaluation and Condition Assessment
Capacity Assessment and Design Criteria
Prioritization of Corrective Action
Capital Improvement Plan
8.1 BACKGROUND
In March 2009, the Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) issued the City,
Hillsborough, and Crystal Springs County Sanitation District (CSCSD) (collectively
referred to as “Agencies”) a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) mandating elimination of
sanitary sewer overflows (Spills) in their respective and collective collection systems, as
well as requiring specific corrective actions to upgrade sewer capacity. In 2013, the
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) was issued a new NPDES permit, with special
provisions requiring a more integrated view of the collection system and WWTP including
the development of WWTP and Collection System Master Plans and CIPs, and a Wet
Weather 
Improvement 
Program. 
This 
permit 
was 
revised and reissued in
2018 under Order No. R2-2018-0016, NPDES No. CA0037541.
In response to the requirements established in the 2013 permit, City contracted with
Carollo Engineers to develop an Integrated Wastewater Master Plan, which included a
prioritized 20-year Capital Improvement Plan for the City’s collection system and
WWTP. Tasks included flow projections, regulatory review, on-site storm water
management, stress test, capacity analysis, energy analysis, treatment alternatives
analysis, condition assessment, and prioritized capital improvement plan.
In 2014, the City created the Clean Water Program (CWP), a capital infrastructure
improvement program to repair, replace, and upgrade aging sewage conveyance and
wastewater treatment infrastructure. The City contracted with CH2M Hill (acquired by
Jacobs) for program management support and to conduct a full review of the CWP
through a Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (PEIR). In 2016, the City
certified and adopted the Final PEIR and approved the underground flow equalization
system programmatic approach. The approved programmatic approach also
Last Update: May, 2025
8 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 8: System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance,
and Capital Improvements
188 of 891

--- page 189 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SYSTEM EVALUATION, CAPACITY ASSURANCE, AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS
established the CWP as a $1 billion capital improvement program, reduced Carollo
Engineer’s initial 20-year plan to a 10-year delivery timeframe, and repackaged the
capital improvement projects to align with the revised timeline. The CWP is anticipated
to be completed in 2026 and will meet the requirements of the Cease and Desist
Order.
Information about the Clean Water Program, the various capital improvement projects
that address capacity assurance, along with the Programmatic Environmental Impact
Report can be found at this City website: https://cleanwaterprogramsanmateo.org/
8.2
PROJECT DRIVERS AND CAPACITY ASSESSMENT CRITERIA
There are several project drivers affecting the development of the integrated master
plan, the resulting Capital Improvement Projects, and the prioritization of the projects.
The drivers fall within several categories, and include capacity assessment as follows:
•
•
•
•
•
Aging infrastructure requiring repair or replacement.
Capacity to deal with dry and wet weather flows generated from the service area.
Regulatory requirements (current and future).
Policy decisions regarding sustainability initiatives.
Potential effects of climate change.
The current population within the entire WWTP service area is estimated to be
approximately 150,000, with 104,430 in the City limits based on the 2019 census.
Projections within the next 20 years suggest an increase in City population to
approximately 166,400 by the year 2035. After projecting future dry weather flows to the
WWTP using a per capita method, expansion of permitted capacity for dry conditions is
not anticipated over the next 20-year planning period.
The City has recently invested in updating the collection system model to be able to
better estimate peak flows, reflect recent improvements, and to project flows through
2035. Sewer collection system projects were identified to address projected wet weather
flow, including pump station capacity projects, storage requirements, and upsizing of
pipelines and relief lines in the collection system that were predicted to have a hydraulic
deficiency during the design storm. The analysis incorporated City knowledge of pipeline
condition and spill history, and reviewed the capacity of system assets given increased
infiltration and inflow that occurs under the design storm conditions.
The sewer collection system hydraulic model used a design storm with a 5-year
recurrence interval and 6-hour duration for the capacity analysis. When applying the
design storm to the City’s hydraulic model, a pipe segment is determined to be capacity
deficient and requires replacement when 1) the pipe conveys maximum capacity, 2)
surcharging in the adjacent manhole occurs, and 3) freeboard at the adjacent manhole
is less than three feet. Freeboard is defined as the difference between modeled rim
elevation and water surface elevation.
Last Update: May, 2025
8 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 8: System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance,
and Capital Improvements
189 of 891

--- page 190 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SYSTEM EVALUATION, CAPACITY ASSURANCE, AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS
8.3
SYSTEM EVALUATION AND CAPACITY ASSESSMENT
The Integrated Wastewater Master Plan implemented best management practices and
includes discussion of the following:
•
Evaluation the sanitary sewer system assets utilizing the best practices and
technologies available;
•
The entire system was included in the hydraulic model and assessed for capacity
needs. The City plans to reassess system capacity approximately every 10 years
if necessary.
•
•
Capacity needs were prioritized that hold a high level of environmental
consequences through predicted sewer spills. The City completes separate
evaluations related to non-capacity issues for pipes vulnerable to failure due to
other system deficiencies, as discussed in Element 4.
The City plans to integrate additional analyses of potentially elevated risk for
pipes located in the vicinity of surface waters, within steep terrain, in locations
with known high groundwater elevations, and in other known environmentally
sensitive areas. These analyses and associated documentation will become part
of the City’s repair and replacement prioritization program, which is addressed in
Element 4.
•
The City is considering ways to integrate potential effects of climate change,
including but not limited to: sea level rise; flooding and/or erosion due to
increased storm volumes, frequency, and/or intensity; wildfires; and increased
power disruptions into the current capacity analysis. The hydraulic model is a
flexible, working tool that can be used to run “what-if” scenarios related to
predicted future events. City staff are actively involved in local industry
organizations, such as CWEA, CASA, and BACWA, that are working to
understand the potential data that is emerging regarding climate change and its
effects on sanitary sewer facilities. As this information becomes known and
accepted, the City is prepared to update the hydraulic model to further evaluate
potential impacts.
8.4
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
The Clean Water Program is approximately $1 billion and is anticipated to be completed
by fiscal year 2026/2027. The program has been ongoing and is fully funded, and
includes project schedules including completion dates for all portions of the capital
improvement program; joint coordination between operation and maintenance staff and
engineering staff/consultants during planning, design, and construction of the capital
improvement projects; and interagency coordination with other impacted utility agencies.
The City’s capital improvement budgets can be viewed in the City’s Adopted 2024-26
Business Plan, found at this webpage:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/96238/Adopted-Budget_2024-
26_Online
Last Update: May, 2025
8 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 8: System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance,
and Capital Improvements
190 of 891

--- page 191 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SYSTEM EVALUATION, CAPACITY ASSURANCE, AND CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS
Table 8-1 summarizes annual expenditures for capacity-related collection system
improvement projects for the past five fiscal years.
Table 8-1. Total Expenditures on Capacity-Related Projects by Fiscal Year
Fiscal Year (FY)
FY19-20
Total Expenditures ($)
40,349,000
FY20-21
49,984,000
FY21-22
46,702,000
FY22-23
34,154,000
FY23-24
32,135,000
5-YEAR TOTAL:
$203,322,000
8.5
APPENDIX 8 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 8
There are no appendix items for Element 8
Last Update: May, 2025
8 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 8: System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance,
and Capital Improvements
191 of 891

--- page 192 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
ELEMENT 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM
MODIFICATIONS
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
The Enrollee shall include an Adaptive Management section that addresses Plan
implementation effectiveness and the steps for necessary Plan improvement, including:
•
•
•
•
Maintaining relevant information including audit findings, to establish and
prioritize appropriate Plan activities;
Monitor the implementation and measure the effectiveness of each Plan
element;
Update Plan procedures and activities, as appropriate, based on the results of
monitoring or performance evaluations; and
Identify and illustrate spill trends, including spill frequency, locations, and
estimated volumes.
The Department of Public Works has established metrics to assess progress in
maintenance, operations and management of the sanitary sewer collection system. The
metrics are defined to identify successes and challenges in reducing spill frequency and
impacts, improving collection system reliability, and providing capacity in the system to
convey peak flows. The following information refers to data that is collected by staff, and
how that data is used to help analyze sewer collection system performance, structural and
maintenance related problems, crew productivity, and overall success of maintenance and
capital improvement programs.
A discussion of how each performance metric indicates the level of success of the
preventive maintenance program is included in the relevant subsections below. This
assessment is also reflected in the City’s bi-annual audit process, which is discussed in
Element 10.
9.1
ADAPTIVE MANAGEMENT
The City includes adaptive management principles to ensure effective implementation and
continuous improvement, as discussed below.
i.
Maintaining relevant information, including audit findings, to establish and prioritize
appropriate Plan activities. The City conducts 3-year audits as discussed in
Element 10. Recommendations from the audits are incorporated into Plan
updates, as shown on the schedule in Element 1.
ii.
Monitoring the implementation and measuring the effectiveness of each Plan
Element is completed through the Plan audits. Performance metrics are tracked in
this Element 9.
iii.
Assessing the success of the preventive operation and maintenance activities. The
effectiveness of preventive operation and maintenance activities is assessed
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
192 of 891

--- page 193 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
through the Plan audits and recommendations from the audits are included I
SSMP updates per the schedule shown in Element 1.
iv.
Updating Plan procedures and activities, as appropriate, based on results of
monitoring and performance evaluations.
No significant deficiencies or modifications have been identified beyond necessary
administrative updates, which are outlined in the most recent audit. Any
recommended updates are incorporated into subsequent updates to the Plan.
v.
Identifying and illustrating spill trends, including spill frequency, locations and
estimated volumes.
Thee remaining information provides information on spill trends, frequency,
locations, and estimated volumes.
9.2
DATA COLLECTION
The City utilizes a CMMS program, Cartegraph software, which provides the means to
capture, retrieve and track collection system maintenance activities. “How-To” documents
have been created for data entry with examples specific to San Mateo’s collection system.
Staff is trained on use of this program with administration and quality control provided by
the CMMS administrator (Data Management Division).
Sewer crew daily records provide information that assists staff analyze the sanitary sewer
collection system. Included on crew daily log and work order sheets are: location of work;
pipe or manhole ID#; length of pipe worked on, whether activities were part of an
emergency response or preventative maintenance (citywide district cleanings and/or “hot
spot” repetitive cleaning); any structural or maintenance problems discovered in the pipe
and their severity; whether additional follow-up is needed; staff names; equipment and
material used; and start and end times.
Field staff enter all information into the CMMS program with assistance from office staff on
a case by case basis. Using data stored in the CMMS, together with discussions between
management, crew and engineering, the City updates maintenance activities as
appropriate.
Contractors are sometimes utilized in addition to internal staff for completing targeted and
district-wide condition assessment projects. Closed-circuit video (CCTV) investigations
are used to identify problems within sewer pipes and to provide an overall condition rating
of each pipe. Modifications to cleaning schedules can be made using the results from this
analysis. Capital improvement projects are also identified as needed to rehabilitate
specific pipelines and reduce cleaning cycle frequency.
CCTV data and condition scores are also used to determine specific rehabilitation
methods, and to coordinate repairs with other public works efforts, such as road
rehabilitation/reconstruction.
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
193 of 891

--- page 194 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
Pipeline Observation System Management (POSM) CCTV software is utilized to further
assist with the condition assessment of pipes and reduce the amount of time between
receipt of video and repair of pipes.
Through accurate and timely updates to asset data, preventive maintenance activities,
and pipeline inspection activities and results, City staff have the tools needed to make
informed decisions related to sewer management. This proactive approach to sewer
management has contributed to effective management of maintenance-related spills
through a consistent and systematic cleaning schedule .
9.3
DATA REPORTING
Performance indicator information is generated on an annual basis. Primary criteria
tracked are shown in the Table 9-1 below.
Table 9-1. Cleaning Performance Indicators
2024
7
355
2023
3
310
2022
5
264
2021
22
266
2020
17
192
Dry Weather Sanitary Sewer Spills
Miles Sewer Mainline Cleaned
% of Total Sewer Mainline
Cleaned
100%
100%
100%
100%
79%
Note that the City sometimes cleans sewer mainlines multiple times, which is why the
miles of sewer mainline cleaned vary but the percentage of total sewer mainline cleaned
may remain at 100%. The data presented in Table 9-1 shows that the spills vary between
less than two to nine spills per 100 miles of pipe. The City has a robust routine CCTV and
cleaning program, CWP cleaning and CCTV, and root foaming.
9.4
SANITARY SEWER SPIILLS
The City tracks detailed information pertaining to sanitary sewer collection system spills.
Tables 9-2 through 9-4 provide a synopsis of the number, volume and cause of spills.
Table 9-2. Number of Spills by Total Volume Spilled
Size of Spill (gallons)
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Greater than or equal to
1,000
6
7
3
5
3
From 100 to 999
From 10 to 99
1
0
2
1
2
2
12
6
5
8
Less than 10 (can include in
line above)
0
0
0
2
1
Total
7
10
7
25
17
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 3
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
194 of 891

--- page 195 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
Table 9-2 shows a decreasing trend in the number of spills in all size categories over the
period shown. The exception to this trend is the number of spills greater than 1,000
gallons in 2023, which were due to wet weather events that have since been resolved
through the completion of the City’s Underground Flow Equalization Storage (“UFES”)
capital improvement project in December 2023, which constructed a 5.3 million gallon flow
equalization basin in the collection system to improve overall flow management in the
system.
Table 9-3. Volume of Spills
2024
(gal)
2023
(gal)
2022
(gal)
2021
(gal)
2020
(gal)
Total volume contained
and returned to sewer
system for treatment
Total volume reaching
waters of the United
States
500
80,267
1,240
6,067
25,503
35,950
2,130,525
505,425
364,061
127,435
Total volume not
contained but not
reaching waters of the
United States
200
0
0
832
1,123
(everything else)
Total
36,650
2,210,792
506,665
370,960
154,061
Table 9-3 shows a substantial decrease in the volume of spills in 2024 as compared to
prior years. This change is primarily due to the completion of the City’s UFES capital
improvement project, along with several other capital improvement projects that facilitate
diversion of flows to UFES during wet weather scenarios. Additional information on spills
that occurred in 2023 and prior is available via the spill reports that were submitted to
CIWQS.
Table 9-4. Causes of Spills
# in
2024
# in
2023 
2022
# in
# in
2021
# in
2020
Cause of Spill
Blockage:
Roots
Grease
Debris
1
2
1
4
0
0
0
3
7
2
1
0
3
0
6
1
0
10
4
0
1
5
0
2
0
0
7
8
9
2
19
3
3
0
0
25
10
3
1
14
3
0
0
0
17
Subtotal for Blockage
Infrastructure Failure
Flow Capacity Deficiency
Bypass
Other
Total
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 4
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
195 of 891

--- page 196 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
Table 9-4 shows a decreasing trend in the number of spills in all categories over the
period shown. The exception to this trend is the number of spills related to capacity
deficiencies, which increased in 2023. The City’s most significant capacity issues at 25th
and Delaware have been addressed through completion of the City’s UFES project.
9.5
APPENDIX 9 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 9
There are no appendix items for Element 9..
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 5
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
196 of 891

--- page 197 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
This page left intentionally blank
Last Update: May, 2025
9 - 6
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 9: MONITORING, MEASUREMENT, AND
PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS
197 of 891

--- page 198 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SSMP PROGRAM AUDITS
ELEMENT 10: SSMP PROGRAM AUDITS
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
As part of the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP), the Enrollee shall include
internal audit procedures, appropriate to the size and performance of the system, for
the Enrollee to comply with section 5.4 (Sewer System Management Plan Audits) of this
General Order.
At a minimum, these audits must occur every two three years and a report must be
prepared and kept on file. This audit shall focus on evaluating the effectiveness of the
SSMP and the Enrollee’s compliance with the SSMP requirements, including
identification of any deficiencies in the SSMP and steps to correct them. The audit
must:
•
Evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of the Enrollee’s Sewer System
Management Plan in preventing spills;
•
•
Evaluate the Enrollee’s compliance with the most updated General Order;
Identify Sewer System Management Plan deficiencies in addressing ongoing
spills and discharges to waters of the State; and
•
Identify necessary modifications to the SSMP Plan to correct deficiencies;
The Enrollee shall submit a complete audit report that includes:
•
•
Audit findings and recommended corrective actions;
A statement that sewer system operators’ input on the audit findings has been
considered; and
•
A proposed schedule for the Enrollee to address the identified deficiencies.
10.1 
SUMMARY
The City audits and updates its SSMP on a 3-year basis. Updates may occur more
frequently if the Inspection Superintendent recommends modifications, or if regulations
change between audits. The audit process is documented in the SSMP Audit Form shown
in Appendix 10. The audit form provides structure for a systematic review of each SSMP
element in order to ensure the SSMP contains current information, regulatory
requirements are satisfied, and programs are effective and meeting City’s goals for the
operation of the collection system stated in Element 1. If updates or changes are required,
the content and timeline to complete those change will should be described in the audit
form. The most recent audit showing the results of the City’s SSMP evaluation was
completed in February 2025 and is included in Appendix 10.3. The City’s audit form is
shown in Appendix 10.2 of this document.
As part of the audit process, City staff develops a timeline for updates to critical
information in the SSMP, such as contact information, names of the key staff in the
response chain of communication, or other similar data as needed. A comprehensive
SSMP update will occur every 6 years, as required by the WDR.
Last Update: May, 2025
10 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 10: INTERNAL AUDITS
198 of 891

--- page 199 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SSMP PROGRAM AUDITS
Changes made to the SSMP are documented in the Change Log located in Appendix
10.1.
10.2 
APPENDIX 10 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 10
•
•
•
Appendix 10.1 – SSMP Change Log
Appendix 10.2 – SSMP Audit Blank Form
Appendix 10.3 – Recent SSMP Audit Reports
Last Update: May, 2025
10 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 10: INTERNAL AUDITS
199 of 891

--- page 200 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
ELEMENT 11: COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
SWRCB Waste Discharge Requirement:
•
The Enrollee shall communicate on a regular basis with the public for spills and
discharges resulting in closures of public areas, or that enter a source of drinking
water; and the development, implementation, and update of its Plan (i.e., SSMP),
including opportunities for public input to Plan implementation and updates;
•
The Enrollee shall also create a plan of communication with owners/operators of
systems that connect into the Enrollee’s system, including satellite systems, for
system operation, maintenance, and capital improvement-related activities.
The Department of Public Works realizes the importance of clear and informative
communication with our residential and commercial customers. Ongoing outreach
programs include annual mailings, targeted letters and door hangers to increase
awareness of how sewer fees are used, sewer operations and maintenance and best
management practices, and information and programs for maintaining and rehabilitating
private sewer laterals.
The City’s SSMP is available for access by the public and is published in the Public Works
page of the City’s website. SSMP attachments including documents related to the
communication program, such as the Private Sewer Lateral Cost Sharing Program
(PSLCSP) program application, reimbursement grant form, etc., are also available in the
City’s website.
11.1 
SEWER FEES AND SEWER FUND
On an annual basis, the City reviews its Sewer Enterprise Fund revenues and the funding
required to operate, maintain, rehabilitate, and improve its sewer infrastructure. As part of
the annual review, the City evaluates the need for potential sewer fee rate increases. If a
rate increase is proposed, staff mails a Public Hearing Notice, in compliance with
Proposition 218 (Section 6 of Article XIIID of the Constitution of the State of California),
explaining a proposed increase to sewer fees and why the rate increase is necessary. In
2023, the City implemented a five-year sewer rate increase beginning in fiscal year
2023/2024 through 2027/2028. The Proposition 218 Rate Increase Notice can be found
on this City webpage: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1085/Sewer-Service-Charge.
11.2 
PRIVATE SEWER LATERAL COST SHARING PROGRAM
The City promotes private lateral replacements by property owners through a PSLCSP,
established in 2011. In 2013, the City Council approved a revised sewer lateral cost
sharing program. The revised program provided cost sharing of 50% of the cost of a full
lateral replacement only, up to a maximum of $5,000, based on the lowest of the three
written estimates required to be submitted by the property owner. The property owner
must also submit finalized permits in order to be eligible for the cost sharing. In 2018, the
City enhanced the program to maintain the same cost sharing methods as approved in
2013, while improving outreach of the program and limiting eligibility of applications to a
three-month time frame. This new timeframe allows for more owners to participate in the
Last Update: May, 2025
11 - 1
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 11: COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
200 of 891

--- page 201 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
program rather than waiting for inactive applications to complete the process. In 2024, the
maximum reimbursement for cost sharing was reduced to $2,500.
Program materials can be found at this City webpage:
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/1910/Citywide-Private-Lateral-Cost-Sharing-Pr
11.3 
SEWER MAINTENANCE PUBLIC OUTREACH
Staff from the Field Maintenance Division (Sewer Maintenance) meet with residents daily
while responding to emergency sewer calls. Crews take this opportunity to talk with
residents about the public sewer collection system and private sewer lateral maintenance
concerns. In addition to in-person outreach approaches, the City utilizes various
communication channels, including mailers, post cards, signage on A-frames, social
media, e-newsletters, and community meetings.
Sewer crews utilize door-hangers as part of response activities as well. Crews document
the condition of the sewer mainline, actions taken, and planned follow up activities. These
door-hangers are left at the affected properties and include a phone number for the public
to call in case there are further questions.
The City is developing outreach materials to advise residents not to discharge items to the
sanitary sewer such as non-disposable “disposable” wipes and other products other than
toilet paper. These materials will be included in a future update to this SSMP and added to
the City’s website.
As part of the City’s Spill Emergency Response Plan (SERP), staff developed a public
notification e-mail system to advise residents along waterways after a spill may have
impacted water quality (please refer to Element 6, SERP of this SSMP document). Staff
mails public notices to properties adjacent to waterways to maintain updated e-mail
distribution lists.
11.4 
FOG PROGRAM OUTREACH
Regulatory Compliance Division staff attend public venues/events to distribute information
to residents about the importance of keeping sewers free of fats, oils and grease (FOG),
as well as best management practices for sewer systems. FOG Program outreach
materials can be found in Appendix 7.1, FOG Program, Public Outreach Exhibits.
Sewer maintenance crews work in coordination with Regulatory Compliance Inspectors to
provide outreach materials to residents in San Mateo. After a sanitary sewer spill has
occurred from a blockage caused by FOG, the Regulatory Compliance staff mails a cover
letter and WEF brochure “Fat Free Sewers” to these residents (Appendix 7.1).
11.5 
APPENDIX 11 – SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR ELEMENT 11
There are no appendix items for Element 11.
Last Update: May, 2025
11 - 2
City of San Mateo SSMP
Element 11: COMMUNICATION PROGRAM
201 of 891

--- page 202 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 3 – LEGAL AUTHORITY
Appendix 3.1 – Estero Municipal
Improvement District Agreement
Appendix 3.2 – 1989 Town of Hillsborough,
CSCSD, County of San Mateo Sewer
Agreement
Appendix 3.3 – 2022 Town of Hillsborough
Capital Cost Agreement
Appendix 3.4 – 2024 CSCSD and County of
San Mateo Capital Cost Agreement
Appendix 3.5 – City of Belmont Agreement
202 of 891

--- page 203 ---
This page left intentionally blank
203 of 891

--- page 204 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 3 – LEGAL
AUTHORITY APPENDIX 3.1
Estero Municipal Utility
District Agreement
204 of 891

--- page 205 ---
> Ww

an num

10
11
12
13

14
15
16

{iu
18

19
20
a
22
23
24
25

26
27
28

29
30

31

JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CiTY OF SAN MATEO AND THE ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

FOR OPERATION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND CONSTRUCTION OF
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS UNDER THE CLEAN WATER PROGRAM

This AGREEMENT, made and entered into this HL day of Agni , 2017, by and between the
CITY OF SAN MATEO, here and'after called “City” or “San Mateo” and the ESTERO MUNICIPAL
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, hereinafter called “Estero” or “EMID”, pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers
Act, Government Code.6500 et seq.

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into two joint powers agreements dating back to
1974 which set forth the apportionment of capacities, maintenance and operations:costs, and capital
Improvement:costs for shared wastewater treatment facilities and wish to.continue a mutually beneficial
arrangement under a new joint powers agreement; and

WHEREAS, the parties’ most recent agreement is the Joint Powers Agreement made and entered
into July 17, 1989, as amended on January 17, 1990 and September 5, 2000 (“1989 Joint Powers
Agreement”);-and

WHEREAS, the 1989.Joint Powers Agreement rescinded the previous joint powers. agreement
entered into on June 3, 1974 and amended February 4, 1976 (“1974 Joint Powers Agreement”); and

WHEREAS, the parties now wish to rescind the 1989 Joint Powers Agreement and enter into anew
Joint Powers Agreement for ongaing operation of the Wastewater Treatment Piant and to reflect the “Clean

‘Water Program,” a comprehensive suite of capital improvements, replacements, new treatment processes,

and rehabilitation of the parties’ Jointly Owned Facilities that are necessary for capacity-assurance,
reliability, and to meet regulatory compliance requirements, as defined in the 2015 validation studies
completed by CH2M, the Program Management Team, on the 2014 Draft Integrated Wastewater Master
Plan prepared by Caroilo Engineers and any modification thereto; and

WHEREAS, the Joint Powers Agreement is intended to define and clarify the parties’ respective
purchased capacities in the Wastewater Treatment Piant upon completion of the Clean Water Program, and

the distribution.of capital improvement costs incurred in connection with the Clean Water Program; and

WHEREAS, the parties wish to preserve the ongoing operation and maintenance provisions as set
forth in the 1989 Joint Powers Agreement, as amended, and restated herein, and

NOW, THEREFORE, IT iS AGREED BY THE PARTIES HERETO

205 of 891


--- page 206 ---
32
33
34

35

37
38
39

40

41
42

43

45
46
47

49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56

57

58
59
60

61

62
63
64
65

66
67
68

The agreement entitled “Joint Powers Agreement between City of San Mateo and the Estero
Municipal improvement District for Construction and Operation of the Water Quality Control Plant” dated
July 17, 1989, and any and all amendments thereto, Is hereby rescinded..

In consideration of the mutual promises set forth herein, the City of San Mateo and Estero
Municipal improvement District agree as follows:

SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS

The following definitions apply to terms used in this agreement:

eet Basis of Design

"Basts of Design” is the criteria, based on engineering and assumed water quality, used to design the

Jointly Owned Facilities and establish the design capacity of a Unit Process.

1.2 Capital lmprovement Costs

“Capital Improvement Costs” shall mean all costs incurred by the Lead Agency to develop,
Implement, and compiete construction of Clean Water Program improvements of the WWTP Jointly Owned
Facilities, including costs of construction contracts, professional consultant services, material and equipment
procurement, compliance with regulatory requirements and mitigation measures, and Staff Costs of the
Lead Agency. Such Capital improvement Costs inciude, but.are not limited to, program, project and
construction management, planning, validating, testing, modelling, and technical studies, architectural
design, legal services, fiscal or economic studies, right of Way acquisition, commissioning and placing
operating costs incurred by Estero in connection with Clean Water Program work. In addition, Capital
Improvement Costs.inciude any liability the Lead Agency incurs In prosecuting the program-work-and any
claims adjusting, claims investigation, and costs incurred in defending claims (including reasonable attorney
fees) brought by any consultant, contractor or third party for damagesarising out of the prosecution of the
program work.

1.3 Design Capacity.

“Oesign Capacity” is the maximum capacity, expressed in millions of gallons per day (MGD), at which
a Jointly Owned Facility or Unit Process is designed to operate,.based on the Basis of Design and assumed
water quality, and to meet National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) requirements.

1.4 Jointly Owned Facilities

As used in this Agreement, “Jointly Owned Facilities” is defined.as all WWTP treatment, conveyance
and disposal facilities from the point of entry of the influent sewage lines into the WWTP facilities to the
effluent outfall point In the San Francisco Bay, including associated buildings (laboratory, administration
building, etc.) which are used for treatment of wastewater to comply with regulatory requirements.

The sanitary sewer collection and conveyance systems independently owned by the City of San

Mateo and Estero which deliver sewage to the WWTP are not Jointly Owned Facilities and.are not:subject to
this Agreement..

206 of 891


--- page 207 ---
69

70
71
72
73

74

75
76
77
78

79

80
81

RES

86

87
be
89

90
91
92
93

95
96
97
98
99

100
101

102
103
- 104
105
106

15 Lead Agency

“Lead Agency” is the agency responsible for performance of tasks required to develop, implement
and complete construction of Clean Water Program Improvements, or any portion thereof, on behalf of the
parties, and to administer this Agreement by and through its program management office, elected and
appointed officials, employees, and agents, in accordance with the Program Management Plan.

1.6 Maximum Altowable Flow

“Maximum Allowable Flow” is the maximum flow expressed in millions of gallons per day (MGD)
that each party is authorized to convey to the WWTP upon commissioning and completion of all WWTP
Clean Water Program projects and shall. not exceed the Purchased Capacity. The Maximum Allowable Flow
for Jointly Owned Facilities is shown in Exhibit 2.

1.7 Operating and Maintenance Costs

The term "Operating and Maintenance Costs” shall mean any all costs dnd expenses, whether direct
or indirect, incurred for the administration, including the administration of the pretreatment program,
operation, maintenance, improvement, and repair of the Jointly Owned Facilities; including but not limited
to supplies, equipment.and materials, fabor, services, power, chemicals, regulatory requirements Including
fines, mitigations, laboratory contro! and monitoring, insurance and liabilities, administration, legal costs,
and incidental items incurred during normal operations.

1.8 Overtoad

The term “Overload” means hydraulic loads, organic loads, and/or solids loads, that cause’a Unit.
Pracess or processes to exceed the Design Capacity and/or cause Jointly Owned Facilities to not meet NPDES
requirements.

1.9 Partner Agen
“Partner Agency” is the agency not serving as Lead Agency
1.10 Plant.

The terms “Plant”,“WWTP”, and “Wastewater Treatment Plant” are interchangeable and shall
mean the Wastewater Treatment Plant located within the City of San Mateo.

1.11 Purchased Capacity

“Purchased-Capacity” is the maximum capacity of the Jointly Owned Facilities to procéss sewage
expressed in millions of gallons per day (MGD) that each party has Purchased by payment of its
proportionate share of the Jointly Owned Facilities and Unit Processes as shown in Exhibit 1.

If, upon completion of the Clean Water Program Improvements or thereafter, a Unit Process(és) of

the Jointly Owned Facilities are operated within discharge.requirements at actual flows lesser than Design
Capacity or Purchased Capacity, the Purchased Capacity ratios’ shall remain unchanged.

1.12 Staff Costs
"Staff Costs” are the actual costs incurred by Lead Agency staff for hours:spent In direct participation
in activities to develop, implement, and complete Clean Water Program Improvements. Staff Costs include

butare not limited to costs associated with preliminary planning, validation, and testing to determine the
feasibility and parameters of treatment works, engineering, project arid program management,

207 of 891


--- page 208 ---
107
108

109

110
111
112

113
114

115

116

117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130

132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147

environmental, architectural, legal, fiscal or economic investigations or studies, surveys, designs, plans and

1.13 Unit Process

“Unit Process” Is a physical, chemical, biological or mechanical treatment function which serves a
specific purpose or treatment objective in the advancement of the quality of wastewater and associated
byproducts.

SECTION 2
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS

2.1 Clean Water Program Improvements

The Clean Water Program includes all improvements, replacements, new treatment processes,
expansion and rehabilitation of the Jointly Owried Facilities necessary for capacity assurance, reliability,-and
to meet regulatory compliance requirements, as defined in 2015 validation studies completed by CH2M, the
Program Management Team on the 2014 Draft Integrated Wastewater Master Plan prepared by Carollo
Engineers and any modification thereto, hereinafter “The Clean Water Program” and includes all work to
demolish, remove, replace, build, modify, expand, and construct new Jointly Owned Facilities. The work
shall include but not be limited to, preliminary planning and engineering, implementing and maintaining the
program management office (PMO), environmental, architectural, legal, fiscal, and/or economic
investigations and/or studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, public outreach activities,
specifications, procedures, or other necessary-actlons, construction, erection, roadway, environmental or
of treatment works, including Inspections or supervision of any of the foregoing items and all other work for
possible unforeseen changed regulatory requirements and field conditlons, project administration and.Clean
Water Program administration by San Mateo, engineering.and arbitration support for claim resolutions and
lawsults against third parties other than San Mateo and Estero.

The Clean ‘Water Program includes the construction of new dry and wet weather processes and
storage facilities including but not limited to the following: new headworks, new equalization basins for
WWTP influent equalization storage, biologically and chemically enhanced bioreactor, and.associated
equipment and chemical additions; new dual use clarifiers and associated equipment, piping, primary
sludge/scum pump stations, and chemical additions; advanced activated sludge processes (including
Biological Nutrient Removal (BNR) facilities), membrane. filtration, associated equipment and chemical
additions, disinfection using either ultraviolet light for dry weather flaw or chidrine for wet weather flow,
distribution, and storage, blowers, equipment, and other modifications to existing Jointly Owned Facllities
and miscellaneous improvements associated with the dry and wet weather treatment facilities and water
reclamation facilities to meet NPDES compliance requirements, supply recycled water, and replace aging
infrastructure requiring rehabllitations or replacements. The miscellaneous improvements include site
improvements, roadways; building-structures, and other features common to the plant site and surrounding
area, parking lots, community related walkways and/or a meeting learning center, artistic features, parks,
fencing, WWTP security, chemical. handling, storage-and distribution facilities and equipment, odor control
facilities, and electrical, IT, and SCADA-related and associated equipment, facilities, and both software and
hardware products.

208 of 891


--- page 209 ---
148

149
150

151
152

1S3
4154
155

156

157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174

175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184

2.2

Lead Agency’

San Mateo is designated and shall serve as the Lead Agency for the Clean Water Program

Improvements of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

2.3

Power and Duties of San Mateo

San Mateo shall have the following powers and duties:

a. Toselect the Clean Water Program Manager and Program Manager Advisor consultant to
oversee the day-to-day activities of the planning, design, program implementation,
communications, costs and:schedule tracking, and construction of the Clean Water Program.

b. To solicit bids, award, and enter into contracts for the Clean Water Program.

c. To review and provide comments on contracts for Program Management Advisor consultant,
engineering and related designs services, awards of contract for Clean Water Program construction

Owned Facilities.
d. To pay Its share of Clean Water Program Capital Improvement Costs.

e. To administer the construction, and review.and approve construction contract progress
payments and change orders as needed.

f. Todetermine the adequacy of performance during the construction of the projects.

g. To apply for and receive any permits or consents required from other public agencies'and
entities for Jointly Owned Facilities under the Clean Water Program.

h. To acquire by purchase, iease, gift, condemnation, or otherwise, any real property or interest
therein which it finds to be reasonably necessary for the Jointiy Owned Facilities construction
laydown, materials storage or general construction activities during and after The Clean Water
Program. Any property that is reused or repurposed that is not associated with the Clean Water
Program will result in Lead Agency refunding the Parties’ contributions using cost sharing ratios in
Exhibit 1 or agreed upon by Lead Agency.and Partner Agency if different than ratios established in
Exhibit 1.

i. To approve, reject, or modify contracts for management, engineering:and related studies and
construction work, change orders, claim resolutions, and the acceptance of the completed
construction of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

j.. To manage Clean Water Program budgets including. contingency funds:

k. To establish and implement administrative procedures and Program Management Plan for the
administration of this Agreement‘and management of the Clean Water Program.

|. To provide to Estero final staff reports and notices, reports and studies, and subsequent
approved contracts, change orders, and cost accounting, for any significant-actions or approvals
taken by the San Mateo City Council in execution of the Clean Water Program.

m. To take other actions necessary to impiement and complete construction of the Clean Water
Program, including leading all Clean Water Program Public Outreach Activities,

209 of 891


--- page 210 ---
185
186
187

188
189

190
191
192
193

194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206

207:

209
210
211
212
213
214

215

216
217
218
219
220
pe
222

n. To provide an Estero representative access to the Clean Water Program Office to allow the
representative to participate in and oversee the operation of the Clean Water Program upon the.
direction of the Estero Public Works Director.

2.4 Power and Duties of Estero

Estero shall have the following powers and dutles:

a: To review and provide comments prior to execution of contracts for Program Management
Advisor consultant; engineering and related design services, awards of contract.for Clean Water
Program construction work, change orders, claim resolutions, and acceptance of the compieted
construction of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

b. To pay its share of Clean Water Program Capital improvement Costs,
c. To participate in the Clean Water Program public outreach activities.

d. To attend progress meetings to receive program and project briefings, share timely information
and program status, including change orders.

e. To attend partnering meetings with the Clean Water Program designers and contractors.on the
design and construction of the Ciean Water Program.

f. To meet.and confer whenever necessary to reach consensus on recommendations to San Mateo
and Estero.

g. To participate in pre-qualification processes for professional and construction services.
2.5 Financial Participations and Commitments

a. Financial Participation

Each party agrees to pay its proportionate share of the Clean Water Program Capital !mprovement
Costs based on Purchased Capacity in accordance with the designated proportions shown in Exhibit 1.

b. Budgeting

On or about December 1st of each year, San Mateo shall provide Estero with the preliminary capital
improvement budget for Clean Water Program Improvements for the fiscal year beginning July 1st of the
next year. The parties shall review the preliminary budgets and respond in writing by June 1st of each year
to one:another-any- objections.and reasons therefore. In the absence of any such notification, it shall be
deemed that the preliminary budget is acceptable. San Mateo shall prepare a final budget by July 1st of each
year. The parties shall endeavor to resolve.all conflicts that may arise concerning that budget. The
provisions of Section 6.11 shall apply to unresolved disputes.

\

c. Payments

Progress Payments: San Mateo shall invoice Estero quarterly for its proportionate share of actual
Capital improvement Costs incurred by San Mateo during the quarter preceding the invoice based on the
cost sharing percentages shown In Exhibit 1. Estero shall make Progress Payments as follows: Estero shall
pay to San Mateo within 30 days of delivery of an invoice to Estero’s Public Works Department all moneys
designated in said invoice, even if any or all amounts are disputed, Invoices shall provide reasonable
documentation of costs. Interest will accrue on any amount that remains unpaid after 30 days from delivery
of bills at the prime rate.

210 of 891


--- page 211 ---
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237

238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248

249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259

260
261
262

d.. Billing Disputes

The parties will make.a good faith effort to reconcile any amounts that are disputed within 15
working days of notice of the dispute. Any mutually agreed adjustment shall be applied to the next invoice.
lf the parties are unable to reconcile the dispute, it shall be subject. to the provisions of Section 6.11 Dispute
Resolution.

SECTIDN 3

PURCHASED CAPACITY AND USAGE

3.1 Purchased Capacity

For cost and ownership sharing purposes, Purchased Capacity is equal to the Maximum Allowable
Flow from each party as defined in Exhibit.1. Actual flows.and loads délivered to the Plant shal! not exceed
the Basis of Design for the Jointly Owned Facilities as shown in Exhibit 1 or cause an Overload. Purchased
Capacities of Jointly Owned Facilities are shown in Exhibit 1 to this Agreement.

3.2 Usage in Excess of Purchased Capacity

Either party may temporarily utillze any unused Purchased Capacity in the Jointly Owned Facilities to
the extent available and unused by the party owning that capacity. Purchased Capacity is unused when the
actual flows (Peak Wet Weather or Average Day Maxirnum Month) from the party owning such capacity is
less than the Purchased Capacity for a particular Jointly Owned Facility. Elther party may enter agreements
to allow non-parties to utilize its Purchased Capacity. The party entering the outside agreement shall not
require consent of the other party to this Agreement. Any capacity used by a non-party pursuant to such an
outside agreement shali be considered, for purposes of this section, Purchased Capacity being used by the

‘party, and therefore unavailable to the other party of this Agreement. Any and all flow delivered to the

Plant which originates from a non-party shall be considered flow delivered from the party with whom the
non-party is under-agreement to utilize capacity and such flow will be included in the proportional usage for
Purposes of calculating each party's share of the Jointly Owned Facilities’ Operating and Maintenance Costs.

A party utilizing capacity in excess of its existing Purchased Capacity for three (3) separate
occurrences (3 exceedances of the Peak Wet Weather Flow or 3 months where the Average Flow exceeds
the Average Day Maximum Month) in one calendar year, or a party desiring capacity in excess.of its
Maximum Allowable Flow, can either purchase the capacity from the other party at. replacement cost
depreciated or shall request that San Mateo initiate a Plant expansion forthwith to provide the needed
Purchased Capacity or Maximum Allowable Flow increase. For Peak Wet Weather Flow capacity.an
occurrence is defined as an exceedance of the Peak Wet Weather Flow within a 24 hour period.

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require a party to sell its share of the unused
Purchased Capacity. Unless legally prohibited, San Mateo shall initiate said Plant expansion upon agreement
of San Mateo and Estero. The exhibits shali be amended in the event that the parties modify the Purchased
Capacities.

{f the parties cannot reach either an agreement for the purchase and sale.of capacity or an
agreement to expand the Plant, the party in need of additional capacity may solely fund Plant expansion.and
take ownership of the additional capacity created by the expansion. In such an instance, the Plant

211 of 891


--- page 212 ---
263
264
265

266

267
268
269
270
271
272

‘273

274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282

283

284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291

292

293
294
295
296
297
298
299

300
301
302

303

expansion undertaken by one party may not reduce or otherwise impact the Purchased Capacity of the
other party. The Plant expansion also may not disrupt the Plant’s operation or inhibit the ability of the
parties to utilize their existing Purchased Capacity.

3.3 Metering

San Mateo has established'a metering station and will establish a sampling station that measures
actual flows delivered to the Ptant to calculate capacity usage of San Mateo and Estero. Sampling shail be
performed if wastewater flows exceed treatment loading capacity that causes an Overload. The metering
and sampling station aré open to Estero during regular business hours for purposes of checking the metering
system and obtaining wastewater samples. The meter shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's
recommended schedule and documentation of each calibration shat| be provided to Estero.

3.4 Consequences of Overload

lf a party causes an Overload, the parties must convene to address any significant harm to the
environment, overflows and/or non-compliance with NPDES permit requirements. Any resultant capital
investments will be the contributing party's or parties’ responsibilities and allocated in accordance with
Exhibit 1, based on the identified cause through a determination process led by the Lead Agency in
coordination with ail impacted partners/parties. San Mateo shall lead the investigation into any Overload
that caused permit compliance issues, recdiimend and implement solutions, and allocate costs based on
both oreither party’s contribution to exceeding the Basis of Design and noncompliance event. San Mateo
will share results of any such investigation with Estero. Disputes:regarding the. finding or outcome of any
investigation shall be resolved according to Section 6.11 — Dispute Resolution.

3.5 Treatment Cost.Loading Factor

This toading factor addresses any additional Plant operational, storage, énergy, and/or treatment
costs or usage needs. The treatment cost loading factor shall be determined based on the required
additional Plant wastewater treatment and/or extra utilities expenses needed to meet'a revised Basis.of
Design to treat the additional load. The need for a treatment cost loading factor shall be determined by
sampling the flow that causes the need for additional treatment or. greater energy requirements to meet a
loading, then an additional wastewater pollutant treatment cost loading factor may be applied to either
party.

3.6 Use of By-Products

Either party may use any by-products of the treatment processes for their own use. If both parties
wish to use the by-product, it shall be shared in accordance with the parties’ ownership and cost distribution
of the process generating the by-product as shown in Exhibit 1. If neither party wishes to use the.by-
product or there is remaining by-product after the parties’ use, it may be sold to a third party; the parties
shall share the proceeds of the.sale in accordance with their Purchased Capacities. {f in the future either or
both parties wish to construct facilities to further process the byproducts for other beneficial-uses by the
parties or a third party, the parties agree to amend this agreement Upon teritis agreed to by the parties.

The Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) processing facility and fueling station constructed in 2016 are
owned and operated solely by City of San Mateo, and-San Mateo is entitled to usage of 100% of the refined
byproduct from this facility.

212 of 891


--- page 213 ---
304
305

306
307
308
309
310
311

312
313

314
315

316
317
318

319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328

329
330

331

332
333
334
335
336
337

338
339

SECTION 4—

ONGOING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF JOINTLY OWNED FACILITIES

ONGOING OFERA TION ANY VA ey

4.1 General

San Mateo agrees to operate and maintain the Jointly Owned Facilities in a reasonable and prudent
manner.

4:2 Powers and Duties of San Mateo
San Mateo shall have the following powers and duties relating to the Jointly Owned Facilities:

a. To maintain, repair, replace, improve, and operate the facilities, and to do any and all things
which it shall find reasonable in order to treat and dispose of the wastewater and sewage of the
parties in a manner authorized by iaw and permits.

b. Tosolicit bids, award, and enter into contracts with third parties for services related to
replacement, modification, or repair of the facilities, or partles thereof.

c. Toannually prepare a budget including proposed non-Clean Water Program ca pital
improvements and.operation, maintenance, and replacement costs; and to provide for the
distribution of these-costs between the Agencies.

d. To operate and maintain the Jointly Owned Facilities in a reasonable.and prudent.manner.

e. To schedule meetings at least quarterly for senior management staff from San Mateo and Estero
to discuss operation and maintenance of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

f. Tocomply with applicable laws and regulations and toact reasonably and prudently.
43 Powers and Duties of Estero
Estero shall have the foliowing powers and duties relating to the Jointly Owned F acilities:
a. Toreview the proposed budget.as stated in section 4.4.
b. Toattend scheduled senior management staff meetings.
c. Tocomply with applicable laws and regulations and to act reasonably and prudently.
d. To pay bills as stated in Section 4.5.

e. Tomake inquiries where Estero has questions concerning the operation of the Jointly Owned
Facilities.

44 Annual! Budget

San.Mateo:shall prepare an annual Jointly Owned Facilities preliminary budget and submit the
preliminary budget to Estero by February 1" of each year for review, approval, and inclusion in Estero’s
antiual operating budget. San Mateo shall provide the adopted budget to Estero. The budget shail include
San Mateo’s Operating and Maintenance Costs. Concurrent with San Mateo’s preparatlon of the budget
Estero shal! prepare a budget for its Public Works costs and indirect costs; the.budget.may be reviewed by
San Mateo.

The parties shall review the preliminary budgets and respond In writing by June 1" of each year to
one another any objections.and reasons therefore. In the absence of any such notification, it shall be

213 of 891


--- page 214 ---
340
341
342

343

345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357

358 ©

359
360

361

362

363
364
365
366
367
368

369
370
371
372
373

374
375
376

377
378

inferred that the preliminary budget is acceptable. San Mateo shail prepare a final budget by July 1st of each
year. The parties shall endeavor to resolve all conflicts that may arise concerning that budget. The
provisions of Section 6.11 shall apply to unresolved disputes.

45 Billing and. Payments

The parties-shaif pay their respective share of budgeted costs to operate and maintain the Jointly
Owned Facilities in accordance with.each party’s share of the metered flow. Bills shall be sent quarterly and
shall be based.upon the actual costs for the quarter and in accordarice with the metered flaw for that
quarter. Costs for the fiscal year shall be adjusted if necessary in the fourth quarter. Bills shall provide
reasonable documentation of costs. The costs'incurred by Estero associated. with periodic pump station
shutdowns required for plant operations and maintenance shall be considered as an Indirect Operating and
Maintenance Cost, and shail be invoiced to San Mateo within a month of the cast being incurred.

It shall be the responsibility of each party to bill and coilect from its individual users. Amounts
payable by Estero to San Mateo shali be rendered no iater than thirty (30) days after the bill is received by
Estero and shail carry a charge of 7% per annum interest rate, or the prime rate ifit is lesser than 7%, for
fate payments. If Estero disputes the amount.of a bill, it shali specify the reason for the disagreement in
writing to San Mateo within 120 days after the bill Is received or its objection shail be deemed waived,
unless within 18 months the parties.concur theré has beén an error in a biil, The parties shali timely pay any
amounts that.are not disputed.

SECTION 5S
LIABILITY

S.1 Shared Liability

The parties agree that any liability incurred to a non-party shall be apportioned based Gpon each
parties’ ownership and cost distribution share of the Jointly Owned Facilities, and calculated as the average
of the ownership and cost distribution shares of the Jointly Owned Facilities as shown in Exhibit 1. For the
purposes of this.section liability. includes any liability arising under tort.or contract principles as weli as
liability for violations of any state or federai laws or regulations related to wastewater treatment or
discharge or water quailty standards.

in the. event that either party recovers insurance proceeds from third party insurers, inciuding
commercial carriers and joint powers insurance pools, all recovered moneys shall be shared in accordance.
with the parties’ respective ilability shares. The parties-shall pay their respective shares of any deductibles
or self-insured retentions and any amounts exceeding then-existing limits of coverages.

5.2 Good Faith

San Mateo and Estero-shall both conduct themselves with respect to this Agreement and to the
construction, maintenance, operation, and administration of the Jointly Owned Facilities in good faith and in
a prudent, professional manner.

214 of 891


--- page 215 ---
379

380
381
382

383

384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391

392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417

5.3 Compliance with Federal and State Laws and Regulations

The parties agree to comply with any and all laws, rules, regulations, standards,.and requirements of
any Federal or State board, commission, agency, or similar body, and the decisions of any court of
competent jurisdiction.

5.4 Insurance

San Mateo shall purchase and maintain insurance against loss or damage to the Jointly Owned
Facilities, including workers’ compensation insurance and general liability insurance. The general liability
policy shall cover, to the extent reasonably available, the ownership, maintenance, Operation, and use of the
Jointly Owned Facilities and all incidental activities including but not limited to structural alterations,
construction, and demolition and associated hazards. The policy{-ies) shall name the Estero Municipal
Improvement District, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents as. additional insureds. The
cost of such policies shall be considered operating costs and part:of the annual budget tr the Jointly Owned
Facilities, notwithstanding any self-insured retentions and deductibles.

SECTION 6
GENERAL PROVISIONS

6:1 Fiscal Year

The fiscal year applicable to this agreement shall be from July 1st of each year to and including the
following June 30th.

6.2 Access to Records

Any and all books, documents, papers, and records prepared and/or maintained by either party for
any.activity undertaken under this Agreement shall be made accessible.to the other party upon request or
to any outside party as may be required by law.

6.3 Pretreatment Industrial Permit Requirements:and Sewer Use Ordinances

Each party shall maintain sewer use regulations, including pretreatment programs, permit
requirements, and enforcement procedures to ensure compliance with the discharge: restrictions and
limitations'set forth herein and as required by any and all Federal State and regional laws, rules, regulations
and standards.

Neither party shall knowingly permit any entity, within or outside its jurisdiction, to discharge
sewage into its wastewater collection system unless that entity complies with the pretreatment program as
required by the parties’ respective.sewer use. regulations and any regulatory agency with enforcement
authority for pretreatment regulations and waste discharge requirements. If any party learns that any
entity, within or outside its jurisdiction, is discharging sewage Into its wastewater collection system in
comiaienton of the pretreatment program, that party shail inimediately make steps to either obra
regulations rmipoea upon the City and Estero by regulatory agencies ¢ are considered to be : a part of this
Agreement.and shall be binding upon the parties.

215 of 891


--- page 216 ---
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425

426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436

437
438

439
440

441

442
443
444

445
446

447
448
449
450

451

452
453
454
455
456
457

If San Mateo duly authorizes any individual to inspect and enforce industrial pretreatment
requirements of Federal, State, or Regional Agencies or locat limitations and standards, Estero shall allow
that authorized individual access to discharger facilities and enable the individual through ordinance or
resolution to sample, inspect, and enforce applicable regulations regarding illegal discharges. The individual
shall notify Estero before the inspection or enforcement action is performed. Costs of this inspection and
sampling program incurred by San Mateo shall be included as a cost of the operation and maintenance
expenses of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

6.4 Ownership

San Mateo shail retain title to all presently owned lands for the Jointly Owned Facilities and Estero
shall have no intérest in said lands. Either party may acquire real property at its sole éxpense or either party
may request that the other concur in the joint purchase of real property which it jointly believes is needed
for the operation of the Jointly Owned Facilities. The parties, through a separate viii may purchase
real property as undivided Interests based on Exhibit 1.

The Jointly Owned Facilities shall be jointly owned as undivided interests based upon the ownership
and cost distribution as defined in Exhibit 1.

6.5 Separate Agreements and Facilities

Nothing in this Agreement shali prohibit the parties from entering into separate agreements
concerning sewerage facilities which are not a part of the Jointly Owned Facilities.as defined herein.
Nothing in this Agreement shal! prohibit the parties from entering into an agreement(s) to provide sewer
services to areas.outside of their respective service boundaries provided that such agreement(s) does not
cause a party to exceed its Purchased Capacity.

Each party shall be responsible for ensuring full compliance with the terms of this Agreement by any
other entity to which that party provides sewer service. ©

6.6 Notification of New Significant Di reer:

Either party shall notify the other party in writing 30 days prior to the connection of any user or
wastewater treatment services whose need for treatment capacity in the Jointly Owned Facilities is
anticipated to exceed 100,000 gallons per day or otherwise cause an Overload.

6:7 Termination and.Withdrawal
a. Termination.

The parties may mutually agree to terminate this agreement at any time by written agreement.
Estero’s right to obtain wastewater treatment services from San Mateo shall survive termination of this
Agreement, provided that Estero shall be required to pay for the costs of such treatment. based on actual
flows and treatment costs on a quarterly basis.

b. Withdrawal.

A party may withdraw from this Agreement at any time upon giving the other party five years
written notice prior to the proposed date of withdrawal. Notice may be given with.fewer than five years
notice if such withdrawal-would be. consistent with the NPDES permitting cycle, subject to the consent of the
non-withdrawing party. The withdrawing party may not sell, lease, or transfer its rights, or be relieved of its
obligations under this Agreement, without the consent of the other party. As used in this section, the term
“obligations” shall include, but not be jimited to, bonded indebtedness, capital contributions, and Operating

216 of 891


--- page 217 ---
458
459
460

461

462
463
464

465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475

A76
477
A78
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494

and Maintenance Costs. The non-withdrawing party shall have the option of purchasing the withdrawing
party's aliquot'share of Purchased Capacity at a price equal to the market value of the assets comprising the
Jointly Owned Facilities.

6.8 Notices

Unless otherwise designated in writing by the respective parties, all notices, correspondence, claims,
bills or other documents transmitted by one party to the other shall be addressed as follows with copies to
the respective directors of Public Works:

CITY OF SAN MATEO ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
City Manager District Manager

City of San Mateo E.M.1.D.

330 West 20" Avenue 610 Foster City Boulevard

San Mateo, CA 94403 Foster City, CA 94404

6.9 Severability

Should any part, term, or provision of this Agreement be decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be illegal or in conflict with any law of the State of California, the United States, or otherwise
be rendered unenforceable or ineffectual, the validity of the remaining portions or provisions shall not be
affected thereby.

6.10 Successor; Assignment

This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of the:successors of the parties.
Except to the extent expressly provided herein, neither party may sell, convey, or assign any right.or
obligation hereunder without the consent of the.other.

6:11 Dispute Resolution

This section governs all disputes over the parties' respective rights and obligations under this
Agreement or arising out of the ongoing operation or maintenance of the Jointly Owned Facilities.

a. Mediation. After providing written notice in accordance with section 6.8 Notices, either
party may submit any dispute for mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation witbin 30 days of
recetving notice. The mediator may be any person or entity deemed mutually acceptable by the
parties, including a consultant or expert specializing in the.subject matter of the dispute. In the
absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from.a mediators listed by either
the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-
upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. The cost of mediation shall be borne
equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party. The mediation process,
once commenced by a meeting with the medlator, shall last until agreement Is reached by the
parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time Is.extended by the parties. The.
decision of the mediator shall not be binding unless agreed upon in writing by the parties. No party
shall be permitted to file a legai action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith
attempt to reach a mediated settlement.

217 of 891



--- page 218 ---
495 b. Each party shall bear its own costs and attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the

496 mediation process, provided however that the mediator’s fees shall be shared equally by the

497 parties.

498 (om Performance required during dispute. The parties shall comply with their respective

499 obligations under the Agreement, including payment of capital contributions and Operating:and
500 Maintenance Costs, while resolution of any dispute under this Agreement Is pending.

501 612 New and Unforeseen Conditions

502 In the event there are new or unforeseen conditions not covered by this Agreement or conditions

503 _ that may cause.any portion of this Agreement to become obsolete or underfinanced, the parties agree to
504 meet, discuss, and reach a written agreement to resolve those new and unforeseen circumstance effects.

505 613 Days

506 When the term “day(s)” is used, it shall mean calendar days unless otherwise specifically stated to
507 be working days.

508 614 Future Expansions

509 In future expansions the parties agree to use the provisioris of Exhibit 1 as the base document for

510 _—_ designation of the interests of the parties and as the underlying arrangements for the expansion.

511

512. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by

513 __ their respective officers thereunto duly authorized and placed into effect the day and year first above
514 ~~ written.

515 CITY OF SAN MATEO, a Municipal Corporation

$16 _ e

S17 ATTEST: By: 40 = —_—_—
518 Mayor

519
$20
521
522
523
524
525 —
526 APPROVED AS TO FORM:
527

528 Cn

530 = City Attorney, San Mateo

218 of 891



--- page 219 ---
531
532 ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT, A Public
533 Corporation
534

535 By:
536
537
538
539
540
541

542 Secretary, Estero
543

S45 APPROVED AS'TO FORM:
546
547
548
549
550

551

219 of 891


--- page 220 ---
552 Joint Powers Agreement

553 EXHIBIT 1

554 PURCHASED CAPACITY FOR CLEAN WATER PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS

555

556 . MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE FLOWS

557 : Flow. 5an Mateo EMID Basis of Design
558 Peak Wet.Weather 65.8 MGD 12.2 MGD 78.0 MGD

559 Average Day Maximum Month 15.0 MGD 6.0 MGD 21.0 MGD

560

561

562 OWNERSHIP AND COST DISTRIBUTION OF JOINTLY OWNED FACILITIES

Cleati Water Prograrn Capital
improvements and Miscellaneous
Facilities

Pre-2015 Existing Facilities, Outfall
Pipes & Demolition of Existing
Facllities

563

564 Clean Water Program Improvements and Miscellaneous Facilities are defined in Section 2.1.

S65 Pre-2015 Existing Facilities, Outfall Pipes & Demolition of Existing Facilities:

566 Includes Jointly Owned Facilities existing at the Wastewater Treatment Ptant prior to January 1,.2015 and

567 _ previously described in the “Joint Powers Agreement between City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal
568 Improvement District for Construction and Operation of the Water Quality Control Plant” dated July 17,

220 of 891


--- page 221 ---
569 1989, and any and all:amendments thereto; and cost of demolition of any of these Pre-2015 Existing
570 _—‘Fatilities and Outfall Pipes, or portions thereof.

221 of 891


--- page 222 ---
ORIGINAL

AMENDMENT TO THE JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND THE ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FOR OPERATION OF THE CITY OF
SAN MATEO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT AND CONSTRUCTION OF CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS UNDER THE CLEAN WATER PROGRAM

This Amendment is entered into this 19 _ day of _Feb__, 2019, by and between the City of San Mateo,
hereinafter called “San Mateo”, and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, hereinafter called
“Estero”. ‘

RECITALS

WHEREAS, on April 17, 2017, the parties adopted the Joint Powers Agreement Between the City of San
Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District for Operation of the City of San Mateo
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital Improvements under the Clean Water Program
(JPA).

WHEREAS, the parties now wish to amend the JPA to:

1. Revise and simplify the parties' cost sharing and payment obligations during the Clean
Water Program

2. Specify the term and duration of the Clean Water Program

3. Clarify the parties' cost sharing obligations for operating and maintenance costs and capital
improvement costs after the completion of Clean Water Program improvements

4. Specify a date by which the parties will commence discussion and negotiation of a future
amendment to the JPA.

- Now, therefore, the parties agree as follows:
1. Section 2.5.a “Financial Participation" is replaced with the following:

Each party agrees to pay its proportionate share of Clean Water Program Capital Improvement Costs
and other capital improvement costs incurred between January 1, 2015 and the recording of the Notice
of Completion of the construction of Clean Water Program Capital Improvements by San Mateo, which
shall not be unreasonably delayed.

The parties’ proportionate shares of Clean Water Program Capital Program Improvement Costs and all
other capital improvement costs shall be: .

J SanMateoS~*~S~s Estero SCSCSCS~C“CS~SsCSSY
' | Capital Improvement Costs 75.88% L _

Program Management Office 87.94% —
Costs

After the recording of the Notice of Completion of the construction of Clean Water Program Capital
Improvements by San Mateo, the parties’ proportionate shares of capital improvements shall be
determined in accordance with section 4.5 Billing and Payments.

2. Section 2.5.e "Disbursement of Funds obtained through the San Mateo-Foster City Public
Financing Authority” is added to the JPA as follows:

222 of 891


--- page 223 ---
The parties have formed the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (“PFA”) to obtain
financing for the Clean Water Program Capital Improvement Costs. San Mateo is authorized and
responsible for authorizing payments for Clean Water Program Capital Improvement Costs using funds
obtaining by and through the PFA.

San Mateo shall provide, or cause to be provided, all copies of invoices and payments requisitions to
EMID on a monthly basis. EMID shall notify San Mateo within thirty (30) days of any dispute over the
allocation of costs included in those invoices.

3. Section 6.15 "Future Amendments to this Agreement" is added as follows:

The parties shall commence discussion and negotiation of a further amendment to this Agreement no
later January 31, 2029.

4. The parties further agree that this Amendment will sunset on June 30, 2030.

In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their
respective officers and placed into effect the day and year first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

Difne Papan, Mayor Sam Hindi, President of the Board of

Directors

ATTEST ATTEST

City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM _ APPROVED AS TO FORM

City Attorney

223 of 891



--- page 224 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 3 – LEGAL AUTHORITY
APPENDIX 3.2
Town of Hillsborough, CSCSD,
County of San Mateo Sewer
Agreement
224 of 891

--- page 225 ---
* F

we 2 - A

ORIGINAL

[6/27/89]

SANITARY SEWAGE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH,
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CRYSTAL SPRINGS

COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT, AND
THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this [Ek aay
of ZLulf , 1989, by and between the TOWN OF
HILLSBOROUGH, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo,
State of California, hereinafter called "Town"; the CITY OF SAN
MATEO, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo, State of
California, hereinafter called "City"; the CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY
SANITATION DISTRICT, a sanitation district in the County of San
Mateo, State of California, hereinafter called "District"; and the
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision of the State of
California, hereinafter called “County”.

RECITAL S:

WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into
agreements dated May 3, 1955, March 20, 1962, and October 1, 1979,
which set forth their arrangements and relationships regarding the
discharge, pumping, transmission, and treatment of sewage; and

WHEREAS, the parties now wish to rescind said earlier
agreements and designate their present and future relationships

with respect to the use of sewage conveyance and treatment
facilities by Town, District, County, and City;

~ ORIGINAL

225 of 891


--- page 226 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:
Section 1. Definition of Service Areas and Trunk Sewers

a. Polhemus Trunk Sewer. For purposes of this Agreement,
there is hereby designated the Polhemus Trunk Sewer, which is
defined as follows:

All sanitary sewerage conveyances and appurtenances
necessary to convey sanitary sewerage from the
beginning of the trunk sewer in Polhemus Road 50 feet,
more or less, southeasterly of Tower Road,
northwesterly along Polhemus Road, to the intersection
of the Polhemus Trunk Sewer with the northerly
boundary of Service Area B, at or near the District's
Measuring Device (as defined below), all as generally
shown on Exhibit A hereto.

b. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer. For purposes
of this Agreement, there is hereby designated the Crystal Springs/
El Cerrito Trunk Sewer, which is defined as follows:

All sanitary sewerage conveyances and appurtenances
necessary to convey sanitary sewerage from the
intersection of the Polhemus Trunk Sewer with the
northerly boundary of Service Area B, northerly along
Crystal Springs Road to El Cerrito Avenue to the
intersection of the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk
Sewer with the corporate city limits of City and the
northerly boundary of Service Area C, at or near the
El Cerrito Measuring Device, all as generally shown on
Exhibit A hereto.

c. Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewer. For purposes of this
Agreement, there is hereby designated the Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewer,
which is defined as follows:

a

226 of 891


--- page 227 ---
Those sanitary sewerage conveyances or appurtenances
necessary to convey sanitary sewerage from the
intersection of the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk
Sewer with the corporate city limits of the City and
the northerly boundary of Service Area C to the Dale
Avenue Pump Station, generally east down Tilton
Avenue, south along Idaho Street, and east across U.S.
Highway 101 at or near Sunnybrae Avenue to the intake
side of the Dale Avenue Pump Station, all as generally
shown on Exhibit A hereto.

dad. Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer. For purposes of this
Agreement, there is hereby designated the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer,
which is defined as follows:

Those sanitary sewerage conveyance or appurtenances
necessary to convey sanitary sewerage from various
collection points at the corporate city limits
boundaries of the Town and the City from the Tobin
Clark Estates area (Service Area E) to the Dale Avenue
Pump Station, generally east along Yew Street and
other neighboring streets, to Borel Avenue, east along
Borel Avenue, then east along Sixteenth Avenue, and
across U.S. Highway 101 at or near Sixteenth Avenue,
to the intake of the Dale Avenue Pump Station,
generally as shown on Exhibit A hereto.

e. Service Area A. Service Area A encompasses a portion
of the County, as generally shown in Exhibit A hereto. The

Polhemus, Crystal Springs/E1 Cerrito, and Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewers
serve Service Area A.

f. Service Area B. Service Area B encompasses a portion
of the District and a portion of the City, as generally shown in
Exhibit A hereto. The Polhemus, Crystal Springs/El Cerrito, and

Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewers serve Service Area B.

==

227 of 891


--- page 228 ---
g. Service Area C. Service Area C encompasses a portion
of the Town, as generally shown in Exhibit A hereto. The Crystal
Springs/El Cerrito and Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewers serve Service Area
Cc.

h. Service Area D. Service Area D encompasses a portion
of the City, as generally shown in Exhibit A hereto. The Crystal
Springs/El Cerrito and Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewers serve Service Area
D.

i. Service Area E. Service Area E encompasses a portion
of the Town, as generally shown in Exhibit A hereto. The Yew/Borel
Trunk Sewer serves Service Area E.

Section 2. Definition of Jointly Used Facilities

a. Once the sewage from Service Areas A, B, C, D, and E
reaches the intake to the Dale Avenue Pump Station, it flows in
common through the Dale Avenue Pump Station, through the trunk
sewers connecting the Dale Avenue Pump Station and the Water
Quality Control Plant (hereinafter WQCP), through the WQCP for
treatment, and then through an outfall line to San Francisco Bay.
The scum, grit, and ash removed from the sewage at the WQCP is
transported to disposal sites.

b. All of the facilities, equipment, personnel, and
processes used in the conveyance and disposal of wastewater

described in Subsection (a) above is defined for purposes of this
Agreement as Jointly Used Facilities.

Section 3. Ownership of Trunk Sewers and Jointly Used
Facilities

a. Those portions of the Polhemus Trunk Sewer that are
within the boundaries or corporate limits of the District, County,

~4~—

228 of 891


--- page 229 ---
or City, respectively, hereby remain under the ownership of the
District, County, or City, respectively.

b. The Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer hereby
remains under the ownership of the Town.

c. The Tilton/Idaho and Yew/Borel Trunk Sewers remain
under the ownership of the City.

ad. The Jointly Used Facilities remain under the ownership
of the City, except as may be otherwise defined by agreement
between the City and Estero Municipal Improvement District
[hereinafter EMID]; however, no portion or section of any agreement
between the City and EMID shall be construed as creating any
ownership rights in the Jointly Used Facilities by County,
District, or Town.

e. Whenever the boundaries of one of the parties to this
Agreement are altered through annexation or deannexation so that a
portion of a trunk sewer now lying within the boundaries of a party
then lies within the boundary of another party to this Agreement,
that portion of the trunk sewer shall come under the ownership of
the party within which the trunk sewer then lies.

Section 4. Maintenance, Repair, Reconstruction, and
Improvement R nsibili f Trunk Sewer n int sed

Facilities

a. Each party to this Agreement shall be responsible for
and shall perform any necessary maintenance, repair, reconstruc-—
tion, replacement, enlargement, or improvement on the portion of
the trunk sewers under their ownership as defined in Section 3
above.

b. The City shall be responsible for and shall perform
any necessary maintenance, repair, reconstruction, or improvement

~5-

229 of 891


--- page 230 ---
on the Jointly Used Facilities; it is expressly understood by the
parties that agreement between the City and the Estero Municipal
Improvement District [EMID] may permissibly delegate or share this
responsibility with EMID as to the WQCP, disposal and outfall
portions of the Jointly Used Facilities.

ec. District shall construct, operate, maintain, and own a
flow measuring device measuring the total flow from Service Areas A
and B [hereinafter District Measuring Device] at or near the
intersection of the Polhemus Trunk Sewer and the northerly boundary
of Service Area B, as generally shown on Exhibit A hereto.
District shall calibrate and verify the District Measuring Device
not less than twice each fiscal year.

d. City shall construct, operate, maintain, and own a
flow measuring device at or near the city limits boundary between
the Town and the City at or near the point of connection between
the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito and Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewers
[hereinafter El Cerrito Measuring Device]. City shall calibrate
and verify the El Cerrito Measuring Device at least twice each
fiscal year.

e. Should any party install any other flow measuring
device in order to measure flows pursuant to this Aqreement, the
installing party shall verify and calibrate the measuring device at
least twice each fiscal year.

Section 5. lculation Ww

a. Extraneous Sewer Flow.

For purposes of this Agreement, Extraneous Sewer Flow is
the difference between the total yearly flow measured at the
District Measuring Device and the flows determined by multiplying
twelve (12) times the average monthly amount of domestic water

delivered to all properties in Service Areas A and B for the five

_- 2

230 of 891


--- page 231 ---
(5) winter months of November, December, January, February, and
March. The total Extraneous Sewer Flow shall be pro-rated between
the City, County, and District in the same ratio as each party's
share of total domestic water deliveries in Service Areas A and B
is to the total domestic water deliveries in the two Service Areas.

b. Service Area A.

(i) County. The total County flow from Service Area
A shall be twelve (12) times the average monthly amount of
domestic water delivered to properties in Service Area A
jn the unincorporated area of the Service Area for the
five (5) winter months of November, December, January,
February, and March, plus the County's share of the
Extraneous Sewer Flow.

c. Service Area B.

(i) City. The total City flow in and from Service
Area B shall be twelve (12) times the average monthly
amount of domestic water Gelivered to properties in
Service Area B in the corporate City limits area of the
Service Area for the five (5) winter months of November,
December, January, February, and March, plus the City's
share of the Extraneous Sewer Flow.

(ii) District. The total District flow in and from
Service Area B shall be the total yearly flow measured at
the District's Measuring Device, less the sum of the total
flows calculated for the County flow from Service Area A
and the City flow from Service Area B.

(iii) County. The total County flow in and from

Service Area B shall be the County flow from Service Area
A.

231 of 891


--- page 232 ---
ad. Service Area C.

(i) Town. The total Town flow in and from Service
Area C shall be the total yearly flow measured at the El
Cerrito Measuring Device, less the sum of the total flows
measured at the District's Measuring Device and the City
flow from Service Area D.

(ii) County. The total County flow in and from
Service Area C shall be the County flow from Service Area
B.

(iii) District. The total District flow in and from
Service Area C shall be the District flow from Service
Area B.

(iv) City. The total City flow in and from Service
Area C shall be the City flow from Service Areas B and D.

e. Service Area D.

(i) City. The total City flow from Service Area D
shall be twelve (12) times the average monthly amount of
domestic water delivered to properties in Service Area D
in the corporate city limits area of the Service Area for
the five (5) winter months of November, December, January,
February, and March.

f. Service Area E.

(i) Town. The total Town flow from Service Area E
shall be twelve (12) times the average monthly amount of
domestic water delivered to properties in Service Area E
within the corporate Town limits area of the Service Area
for the five (5) winter months of November, December,
January, February, and March.

=Ox

232 of 891


--- page 233 ---
g. Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewer.

(i) City. The total City flow in the Tilton/Idaho
Trunk Sewer shall be the total flow measured at the intake
to the Dale Avenue Pump Station from the Tilton/Idaho
Trunk Sewer, less the total flow measured at the El
Cerrito Measuring Device, and plus the City flow from
Service Area C.

(ii) County, District, and Town. The respective
flows of County, District, and Town shall be each party's
flows from Service Area C.

h. Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer.

(i) City. The total City flow in the Yew/Borel Trunk
Sewer shall be either:

(a) Twelve (12) times the average monthly amount of
domestic water delivered to properties in the corporate
City limits served by the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer for the
five (5) winter months of November, December, January,
February, and March; or

(b) The total flow measured at the intake to the Dale
Avenue Pump Station from the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer, less

the Town flow from Service Area E.

(1i) Town. The total Town flow in the Yew/Borel
Trunk Sewer shall be the Town flow from Service Area E.

i. Jointly Used Facilities Flow.

(i) Flow from Intake to Dale Avenue Pump Station to
Intake of the WQCP.

233 of 891


--- page 234 ---
(a) County and District. The County and District
flows shall be each party's flows as determined for the
Tilton/Idaho Trunk Sewer.

(b) Town. Town flow shall be the Town's flows
determined for the Tilton/Idaho and Yew/Borel Trunk Sewers.

(c) City. City flow shall be the total metered flow
at the intake of the WQCP, less the total metered flow at
the Mariners Island #2 Pump Station, the total metered
fiow from EMID, and the total County, District, and Town
flows described in Subsections (a) and (b) above.

(ii) Flow through WQCP and Disposal and Outfall
System.

(a) County, District, and Town. The County,
District, and Town flows shall be the same as calculated
under Subsection (i) above.

(b) City. City flows shall be the total metered flow
at the intake to the WQCP, less the total metered flow
from EMID and the County, District, and Town flows
described in Subsection (a) above.

j. If metered flows are available for any of the flows
that are to be measured by domestic water delivery pursuant to this
Section and the metered flows have been measured by the same five
(5) months or more, then those metered flows shall be substituted
for the domestic water delivery measurements for the applicable
flows.

Section 6. Records and Reports of Flows and Costs
Regarding the Trunk Sewers

a. The Town, the District, and the County shall

a iw

234 of 891


--- page 235 ---
separately maintain and provide records to the City of domestic
water consumption for properties in the Town, District, and County
limits, respectively, in Service Areas A, B, C, and E, pursuant to
Section 5.

b. The District shall maintain and provide records to the
City from the District Measuring Device.

c. From the records provided and its own records for City
consumption and flows, including the El Cerrito Measuring Device,
the City shall calculate domestic water consumption and flows
pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.

ad. Each party shall maintain records of the costs of
capital replacements and enhancements to, debt service for, and
operation and maintenance of, that portion of each Trunk Sewer
defined in Section 1 above so owned and maintained by that party.

e. The operation, maintenance, and capital costs shall
include any necessary labor, equipment, or materials used in the
performance of the work, plus any mutually agreed-upon overhead or
markup charges not-to-exceed 15% and normally levied by that party
for such services. Each party shall notify the other parties to
the Agreement before initiating any change in the computation of
overhead or markup charge and obtain their approval before applying
the change to the computations under this Agreement.

Section 7. Proration of Trunk Sewer Costs

a. No later than July 30 of each year, each party shall
submit to the City an accounting of the domestic consumption,
flows, and costs calculated and recorded pursuant to Sections 5 and

6 above for the preceding 12-month period of July 1 to June 30.

b. City will then calculate and prorate these costs in
the ratio that each party's flow through each of the five (5) trunk

a has

235 of 891


--- page 236 ---
sewers defined in Section 1 above bear to the total flows passing
through that trunk sewer.

Section 8. Proration of Sewage Treatment Charges

a. City shall annually adopt a budget for the operation,
maintenance, repair, and improvement of the Jointly Used
Facilities, including all costs and expenses, whether direct or
indirect, incurred for the operation, maintenance, repair, and
improvement of the Jointly Used Facilities, including but not
limited to, supplies and materials, labor, services, power,
chemicals; regulatory requirements, fines, mitigations, laboratory
control and monitoring, insurance and liabilities, judgments,
administration, legal costs, repair and replacement costs, and
capital improvement costs.

b. Sewage treatment charges for conveyance and treatment
of wastewater through the Jointly Used Facilities and emanating
from Service Areas A, B, C, D, and E shall be charged to and paid
by each of the parties to this Agreement as follows:

(i) For pumping and conveyance from the intake of the
Dale Avenue Pump Station to the intake to the WQCP, in the
ratio that each individual party's flows of wastewater as
measured and reported pursuant to Section 5 of this
Agreement bears to the total flows through this portion of
the sewage system; and

(ii) For treatment, discharge, and disposal through
the WQOCP, disposal and outfall systems of the Jointly Used
Facilities, in the ratio that each party's flows of
wastewater as calculated pursuant to Section 5 bears to
the total flows of wastewater through the WQCP.

c. City shall calculate the ratios and costs assigned
pursuant to this Section.

to

236 of 891


--- page 237 ---
Section 9. Notice of Expenditures and Method of Payment

a. Any party that initiates a new capital expenditure,
other than those identified in Section 12 below, or increases its
level of maintenance that results in an impact to any other party
of greater than $20,000 in any fiscal year pursuant to this
Agreement shall meet, discuss, and reach agreement on the
scheduling of the proposed project and payments. Nothing in this
Subsection, however, shall affect the method of proration of any
project's costs as provided by this Agreement. This Subsection
shall not apply to the undertaking of emergency repairs so long as
notice is immediately given to the affected parties.

b. Not later than April 1 of each year and in
coordination with the other parties to this Agreement, the City
shall prepare a statement estimating the flows and costs for the
coming fiscal year as calculated pursuant to Sections 7 and 8 above
for the Trunk Sewers and Jointly Used Facilities, including any
capital additions, and the proportionate amount to be paid by each
party to this Agreement during the coming fiscal year. This will
be an estimate only for purposes of assisting the parties in
budgeting and to make quarterly estimated payments. These cost
estimates are not warranted to be actual costs for the fiscal year.

c. Quarterly on July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1
of each year, the parties to this Agreement shall deposit with the
City one-fourth of the estimated cost as provided pursuant to
Subsection (b) above; however, the October 1 payment for each
fiscal year shall be increased or decreased to adjust the amount
payable by the party by the difference between the actual amount
due from such party for the final Section 10 total invoice from the
City for Jointly Used Facilities Charges and Trunk Sewers Costs and
the estimated amounts billed and paid by parties hereto for the
previous fiscal year.

i

237 of 891


--- page 238 ---
Section 10. Invoicing of Parties to this Agreement

a. City shall issue a closing invoice or credit to each
party for the respective costs of the trunk sewer maintenance costs
and sewage treatment charges as calculated for the preceding fiscal
year pursuant to Sections 7 and 8 above no later than September 1
of each year.

b. It is expressly agreed and understood by the parties
to this Agreement that the City has no responsibility whatsoever
nor is any warranty or guarantee whatsoever made by City that the
measurements, calculations, or records made, maintained, or
provided pursuant to this Agreement by the other parties are.
accurate, nor that the City offers to or will act as a guarantor,
collector, or adjustor between the parties for sums or credits due
between the parties. The City's compilation, calculation, and
invoicing is only offered to facilitate the resolution of the
various interests involved in this Agreement.

Section 11. Use Rights

a. Town, District, and County shall have a right to use
Capacity in the Jointly Used Facilities. These rights to use the
Jointly Used Facilities are subject to the Joint Powers Agreement
then in existence between the City and EMID (hereinafter JPA),
including, but not limited to: (a) the rights of EMID under the
JPA to use the WQCP, and the disposal and outfall systems of the
Jointly Used Facilities; and (b) the reserved right of City to use
90.54% of its JPA share of capacity in the WQCP, and disposal and
outfall systems of the Jointly Used Facilities.

b. The maximum shares of capacity in the Jointly Used
Facilities are percentage shares of the City's rights pursuant to
the JPA to a share of the capacity of the WQCP, and disposal and
outfall systems of the Jointly Used Facilities: Town, 4.16%;
District, 4.93%; County, 0.37%. The parties may exceed these

~14-

238 of 891


--- page 239 ---
established capacities until such time that another party to this
Agreement makes demand for its unused capacity; upon written
demand of another party to return capacity, the using party shall
take steps within twelve (12) months to return the capacity by
conservation, pretreatment, or whatever other unilateral steps are
necessary to reduce its excess flows to its assigned maximum share
of capacity. However, at no time may any party other than the City
cause or allow the flows comprising the City's share pursuant to
the JPA in the capacity of the WQCP to be exceeded without the
written consent of the City.

Section 12. Upgrading of Jointly Used Facilities

The parties are aware of and concur in the upgrading of
the Jointly Used Facilities that is projected to occur during the
coming five (5) years. The Town, District, and County shall pay to
City the annual charges provided by Sections 8, 9, and 10 above
that include each party’s share of the cost of the upgrading and
modification of Jointly Used Facilities. The parties are cognizant
that City has agreed to finance such capital costs to the Town,
District, and County through issuance of City bonds; City will
obtain reimbursement for that financing through Section 9 annual
charges. The costs for the upgrading shall be shared by the
parties as provided in Section 8.

Section 13. Overloading
No party shall cause or permit any of the Jointly Used

Facilities to be overloaded, whether hydraulically, biologically,
chemically or otherwise.

Section 14. Limitation on Discharge
a. The parties agree not to discharge or to allow the
discharge into any portion of the Jointly Used Facilities of any of

the pollutants violating the standards or limitations established

oli«

239 of 891


--- page 240 ---
by the Environmental Protection Agency, the State Water Resources
Control Board, the Regional Water Quality Control Board, San
Francisco Bay Region, or any other Federal, State, or Regional
Agency, local standards or limitations established by the City
pursuant to these Federal, State, or Regional Agencies'
regulations, directions, orders, or requests, or standards and
limitations established through or in the City's discharge permits
from Federal, State, or Regional Agencies. In addition, the
parties agree not to discharge or to allow to be discharged into
any portion of the Jointly Used Facilities any wastewater with a
sulfide content exceeding 0.2 parts per million total.

b. Each party agrees that it will prevent the
introduction of pollutants into the Jointly Used Facilities that
would cause interference or upset with the operation of those
Jointly Used Facilities, including causing odor, poisoning of
biota, nuisance, or interference with the use and disposal of
sludge, ash, or other residual byproducts.

c. Each party shall perform or have performed reasonable
sampling and analysis to ensure compliance with this Section.

Gd. Each party agrees it shall immediately pay the cost of
correcting all damage caused, fines, or judgments, as well as all
sampling or analytical costs and the cost of any protective
measures necessary to neutralize, contain, divert, and/or remove,
pollutants discharged by the party exceeding the limitations set
forth herein.

Section 15. Compliance With Federal and State Laws and
Regulations

The parties agree to comply with any and all Federal,
State, and local laws, the rules, regulations, standards,
mitigation, and requirements of any Federal, State, Regional, or

local board, commission, agency, or similar body, and the decisions

it a

240 of 891


--- page 241 ---
of any court of competent jurisdiction which must be complied with
to enable the City to safely and legally operate the Jointly Used
Facilities and to qualify for and obtain Federal, State, or
Regional permits or grants for the construction, improvement,
administration, operation, maintenance, or repair of the Jointly
Used Facilities.

Section 16. Pretreatment Industrial Permit Requirements
and Sewer Use Ordinance

a. Each party shall maintain sewer use regulations,
including a pretreatment program, permit process and enforcement
procedures to ensure compliance with the discharge restrictions and
limitations set forth herein and as required by any and all
Federal, State, Regional, and local laws, rules, regulations and
standards. Within sixty (60) days of a written request by the City
to enact or amend the party's sewer use regulations to comply with
this Section, the party shall do so.

b. No party shall knowingly permit any entity, within or
without its jurisdiction, to discharge sewage into its wastewater
collection system unless that entity complies with the pretreatment
program in effect in City. If a party learns that any entity,
within or without its jurisdiction, is discharging sewage into its
wastewater collection system in contravention of the pretreatment
program in effect in City, that party shall immediately take steps
to either obtain compliance with the pretreatment program or halt
further such discharges. The existing City Sanitary Sewer Use
Rules and Regulations are attached to this Agreement as Exhibit B.
It is expected that significant amendments to the City Sanitary
Sewer Use Rules and Regulations will be made in the coming six (6)
months. Whenever an amendment is made to the City Sanitary Sewer
Use Rules and Regulations, City shall provide each of the parties
with a copy of the amendment.

c. If the City duly authorizes any person to act as

ly =

241 of 891


--- page 242 ---
Industrial Waste Inspector in order to inspect and enforce
industrial pretreatment requirements of Federal, State, or Regional
Agencies or local limitations and standards, each party shall allow
that authorized person access to discharger facilities and enable
the inspector through ordinance or resolution to sample, inspect,
and police illegal discharges. The Inspector shall notify the
agency in which the inspection or enforcement action is to be made
before the inspection or enforcement action is performed. Costs of
this inspection and sampling program incurred by City shall be
included as a cost of the operation and maintenance expenses of the
Jointly Used Facilities.

Section 17. Notification of New Significant Dischargers

Each party shall notify the City in writing thirty (30)
days prior to the connection of any user of wastewater treatment
services whose need for treatment capacity in the Jointly Used
Facilities exceeds 100,000 gallons per day.

Section 18. Treatment of Wastewater

It is agreed by the parties that City neither guarantees
nor warrants to the parties that the Jointly Used Facilities will
be capable of adequately treating the parties’ discharges. In no
event shall City be liable to the other parties to this Agreement
for any damage or injury resulting from the Jointly Used
Facilities' inability or failure to satisfactorily receive, hold,
treat, dispose, or otherwise handle or convey wastewater.

Section 19. llection ms_an r Trunk wer

Each party to this Agreement shall maintain those portions
of its collection and distribution systems and trunk sewers that
are not designated as one of the five (5) Trunk Sewers in Section 1
or Jointly Used Facilities in Section 2 but that are within their

jurisdiction, at no expense whatsoever to any of the other parties.

-18-

242 of 891


--- page 243 ---
Section 20. Severability of Obligations

It is specifically understood that the obligations of each
of the parties herein are several and not joint, and that neither
one shall be obligated to pay any sum due from another.

Section 21. Good Faith

The parties shall both conduct themselves with respect to
this Agreement and to the construction, maintenance, operation, and
administration of the Trunk Sewers designated in Section 1 and the
Jointly Used Facilities in good faith and in a prudent,
professional manner. Additionally, each party shall timely and
diligently keep the other parties informed about any and all
matters occurring within its jurisdiction that bear functionally,
financially, or in any other foreseeable way on the relationships
or obligations of the parties as defined by this Agreement.

Section 22. Fiscal Year
For purposes of this Agreement, the fiscal year shall be
the fiscal year of City, as may be established from time to time,

being at the date of this Agreement the period from July 1 of each
year to and including the following June 30.

Section 23. Access to Records

Any and all books, documents, papers, and records prepared
and/or maintained by any party to this Agreement for any activity
undertaken under this Agreement shall be made accessible to the

other parties upon request or to any construction grant agency as
may be required by law. :

Section 24. Termination and Supercession of Agreements
It is mutually agreed by all parties hereto that

—Do«

243 of 891


--- page 244 ---
agreements heretofore entered into between City and Town, District,
and/or County and any and all supplements, addendums, changes, or
amendments thereto regarding sewage treatment are hereby superseded
and terminated.

Section 25. Term

This Agreement shall become effective on the date the
parties have executed same, and shall remain in full force and
effect until amended or terminated. In the event any party
requests termination, that party shall submit a written notice of
withdrawal at least five (5) years preceding the proposed date of
withdrawal; provided, however, that no voluntary withdrawal may
occur during the period that any bonded indebtedness for the
upgrading of the Jointly Used Facilities described in Section 12 is
outstanding.

Section 26. Notices

Unless otherwise designated in writing by the respective
parties, all notices, correspondence, claims, bills or other
documents transmitted by one party to the other shall be addressed
as follows:

To County: Director of General Services
County of San Mateo
County Government Center
Redwood City, CA 94063

To District: Director of Public Works
County of San Mateo

805 Veterans Boulevard, Suite 301
Redwood City, CA 94063

De

244 of 891


--- page 245 ---
To Town: City Engineer
Town of Hillsborough
1600 Floribunda Avenue
Hillsborough, CA 94010

To City: Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Section 27. Performance and Time to be of the Essence

It is understood and agreed that full and faithful
compliance with and performance of each and every covenant and
provision of this Agreement by the party or parties required to
comply with or perform each such covenant or provision is and shall
be of the essence; also that time is and shall be of the essence;
also that such full and faithful compliance with performance of
each and every covenant and provision of this Agreement shall be
deemed to be a material condition of this Agreement.

Section 28. Severability

Should any part, term, or provision of this Agreement be
decided by a court or competent jurisdiction to be illegal or in
conflict with any law of the State of California, the United
States, or otherwise be rendered unenforceable or ineffectual, the
validity of the remaining portions or provisions shall not be
affected thereby.

Section 29. Successors; Assignment

This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to
the benefit of the successors of the parties. Except to the extent
expressly provided herein, no party may sell, convey, or assign any

ee

245 of 891


--- page 246 ---
right or obligation hereunder without the written consent of the

other parties.

Section 30. ion H in

All section headings and sub-headings contained herein are
for convenience of reference only, and are not intended to define
or limit the scope of any provisions of this Agreement.

Section 31. Disputes

If the parties to a dispute regarding a controversy or
Claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach
thereof, agree in writing, the dispute shall be settled by
arbitration in accordance with the Construction Industry
Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
Judgment upon the award rendered by the Arbitrator(s) may be
entered in any Court having jurisdiction thereof.

Section 32. New and Unforeseen Conditions

In the event there are new or unforeseen conditions not
covered by this Agreement or conditions that cause any portion of
this Agreement to become obsolete, undefined, or underfinanced, the
Parties agree to meet, discuss, and reach a written agreement to
resolve those new and unforeseen circumstance effects.

Section 33. Waivers

Waivers of a breach or default under this Agreement shall

not constitute a continuing waiver or a waiver of a subsequent
breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.

Section 34. Modification
No modification, waiver, termination, or amendment of this

~~

246 of 891


--- page 247 ---
. Agreement is effective unless made in writing signed by all 4 of
the parties hereto.

ATTEST: TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
L Lyauss, DD) Lage. a
Town Clerk Town Manager
ATTEST: CITY OF SAN MATEO

Alyce Chieti

City Clerk

ATTEST: CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY

/ SANITATION DISTRICT wa

Clerkfof the District

Board of Supervisors,

Ex-Officio Governing Board

ATTEST: COUNTY OF SAN MATEO ‘

hid Hux Fla Mill.

Certificate of Deliver
(Government Code section 25103)

he original document filed in the
d of Supervisors of San Mateo County
ard of Supervisors.

I certify that a copy of t
Office of the Clerk of the Boar
has been delivered to the President of

S. WELTON, Assistant

ELA]
e Board of Supervisors

Clerk of

247 of 891


--- page 248 ---
_ DISTRICT

\ METER
\:
‘i } CRYSTAL SPRINa

a $s

=

LONG /

°
Mm
7 Na \s
th
" ong

REE

SANITARY SEWAGE.
BETWEEN

, eR
Fa come RS SK PAN \ a \4 »\
: \\ f a> ye \ 4 y . W\\ \ K\ ‘ ”

wae wr or wr mr warm ws SYMBOL FOLLOWS ALIGNMENT OF TRUNK SEWERS OF SO fi vatyaat

P STATION
CSUR NS

3:
248 of 891


--- page 249 ---
SANT SRY SEWER USE RULES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 1.01 Purpose and Policy. These Sanitary Sewer Use Rules and
“Reculations set uniform requirements for discharges into the wastewater
collection and treatment system and enable the City of San Mateo to comply with
the administrative provisions of the Clean Water Grant Regulations, the water
quality requirements set by the Regional Water Quality Control Board and the
applicable effluent limitations, national standards of performance, toxic and
pretreatment effluent standards, and all other discharge eriteria which are
required or authorized by State or Federal law, and to derive the maximum
public benefit by regulating the quality and quantity of wastewater discharged
into the City of San Mateo's sewer system.

These Rules and Regulations provide a means for determining wastewater volumes,
constituents and characteristics, the setting of charges and fees, and the
issuance of permits to certain users.

Revenues derived from the application of these Rules and Regulations shall be
used to defray the City's cost of operating and maintaining adequate wastewater
collection and treatment systems and to provide sufficient funds for capital
outlay, bond service costs, capital improvements, and Gepreciation. Charges
and fees, as hereinafter referred to, are and have been established pursuant to
City of San Mateo Ordinances.

These Rules and Regulations are not intended to be inconsistent with or repeal
any provisions of said Ordinances or any amendments thereto, and in the event
that any provision of these Rules and Regulations is found to be inconsistent
with any provision of said Ordinances, the provisions of said Ordinances shall
sapply. = ; ;

SECTION 1.02 Definitions.

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

ACT or "the Act." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known @s the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et sed.

BOD or Biochemical Oxygen Demand. "BOD" or "biochemical oxygen demanda" shall
mean the measure of decomposable organic material in domestic or industrial
wastewaters as represented by the oxygen utilized in decomposition over a
period of incubation of five days at 20 degrees C. and as determined by the
appropriate procedure in “Standard Methods".

COD or Chemical Oxygen Demand. "COD" or "chemical oxygen demand"-shall mean
the measure of chemically decomposable material in domestic or industrial
wastewater as represented by the oxycen utilized as determined by the

appropriate procedure described in "Standard Methods”.

Discharger. "Dischargex™ shall mean any person who discharges or causes 4
@ischarge to a public sewer.

issolved Solids. "Dissolved solids” or "Gissolved matter” shall mean the
solid matter in solution in the wastewater and shall be obtained by evaporation
of a sample from which all suspended matter has been removed by filtaration as
determined by the procedures in "Standard Methods".

249 of 891


--- page 250 ---
7)
8)
9)

10)
11)

12)

13)

14)

15)

16)

17)

18)

a9)

20)

pomestic Wastewater. ““omestic wastewater" shall mean the water~carried

wastes and wastewate: produced from non-commercial o: on-industrial activities

and which result from normal human living processes.

Effluent. "Effluent" shall mean the liguid outflow of any facility designed
to treat, convey or retain wastewater.

Grab Sample. A sa>ple which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of time.

Holding Tank Waste. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.

House Connection. “House connection” shall mean the sewer connecting the
building sewer or building waste drainage system to the public sewer for the
purpese of conveying domestic wastewater.

Industrizl Connection Sewer. “rnd@ustrial connection sewer" shall mean the sewer
connecting the building sewer or building waste drainage system to the public
sewer for the purpose of conveying industrial wastewater.

Industrial Wastewater. "Industrial wastewater" shall mean all watercarried
wastes and wastewater of the community excluding domestic wastewater and
uncontaminated water, and shall include all wastewater from any producing,
manufacturing, processing, institutional, commercial, agricultural, ox other
operation where the wastewater discharged includes significant quantities of
wastes from non-human origin.

Inspector. “Inspector” shall mean a person authorized by the City Engineer to
inspect wastewater generation, conveyance, processing, and a@isposal facilities.

Gravity Separation Interceptor. "Gravity separation interceptor" shall mean any
facility designed, constructed and operated for the purpose of removing and
retaining dangerous, deleterious or prohibited constituents from wastewater by
differential gravity separation before discharge to the public sewer.

Lateral Sewer, Collecting Sewer, Or Main Line Sewer. “Lateral sewer", "collecting
sewer," or "main line sewer", shall mean the public sewer used to collect waste-

water from house connection and industrial connection sewers and transport it to

trunk sewers. -

Peak Flow Rate. “Peak flow rate" shall mean the average rate at which wastewater
is discharged to a public sewer Guring the highest 30 minute flow period in the
preceding 12 months.

Pollution. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.

Pre-Treatment or Treatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, or the
alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful
state prior to or in lieu of Gischarging or otherwise introducing such chemical
er biological processes, or process changes other means, except as prohibited
by 40 CFR Section 403.6(d).

Public Sewer. "Public sewer" shall mean any sewer dedicated to public use and
whose use is controlled by a public corporation.

Publically Owned Treatment Works (POTW). A treatment works as defined by Section
212 of the act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the City.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to

a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this ordinance, "POTW" shall
also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside

250 of 891


--- page 251 ---
21)

22)

23)

24)
25)
26)
27)
28)

29)

30)

i

the (City) who are, contract or agreement with the(City) users of the
(City's) POTW.

Sewage. "Sewage" shall mean wastewater.

Sewase Pumping Plant. "Sewage pumping plant" shall mean any facility designed
and constructed to raise wastewater in elevation or to overcome head losses
due to pipeline friction.

Sewer: te. "Sewerage" shall mean any and all facilities used for collecting,
conveying, pumping, treating and disposing of wastewater.

Sewerage System. "Sewerage system" shall mean @ network of wastewater collection,
conveyance, treatment and disposal facilities interconnected by sewers and owned
by the City.

Standard Methods. "Standard methods" shall mean the current edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” as published by the
American Public Health Association.

Suspended Solids. “Suspended solids” or "suspended matter" shall mean the
insoluble solid matter suspended in wastewater that is separable by laboratory
filtration in accordance with the procedures described in "Standard Methods."

Toxic Pollutant. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administer of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of GWA 307(a) or other acts.

Trunk Sewer. "Trunk sewer" shall mean a sewer constructed, maintained and
operated by the City that conveys wastewater to City's treatment facilities ana
into which lateral and collecting sewers discharge.

Uncontaminated Water. "uncontaminated water" shall™mean any wasted water of the
community not contaminated or polluted with wastewater and which is suitable or
could readily be made suitable for discharge to the municpal storm water drainage
system.

Wastewater. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
d@wellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed
into or permitted to enter the POTW.

SECTION 1.03 Abbreviations.

The

BOD
CFR
CoD
EPA
L

mg

following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:

- Biochemical Oxygen Demand

- Code of Federal Regulations

- Chemical Oxygen Demand

- Environmental Protection Agency
- Liter

~- Milligrams

mg/l - Milligrams per Liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW < Publicly Owned Treatment Works

sic

- Standard Industrial Classification

SWDA <- Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et. seq

use
TSS

- United States Code
- Total Suspended Solids

251 of 891


--- page 252 ---
ARTICLE Il
REGULATIONS

SECTION 2.01 Approval of Plans for Sewerage Construction. No person, other than
employees of the City, persons contracting to do work for the City, or maintenance
workers of the City shall construct or cause to be constructed, or alter or cause

to be altered, any public sewer, lateral sewer, house connection or industrial
connection sewer, sewage pumping plant, pollution control plant, or other sewerage
facility within the City where existing or proposed wastewater flows will discharge
directly or indirectly to facilities of the City without First obtaining approval of
sewerage construction plans from the City. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere
with the operation or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to
all such users of a POTW wnether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state, Or local pretreatment standards
or requirements.

The applicant shall submit to the City for approval, construction plans and such
specifications and other details as required to aescribe fully the proposed sewerage
facility. The plans shall have been prepared under the supervision of and shall be
signed by an engineer of suitable training registered in the State of California.

Plans for sewerage construction shali conform to the current design requirements
and standard specifications of the City of San Mateo.

SECTION 2.02 Excessive Sewer Maintenance Expense. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged to a public sewer any waste that creates a stoppage, plugging,
breakage, any reduction in sewer capacity or any other damage to sewers or sewerage
facilities of the City. Any sewer or sewerage maintenance expenses or any other
expenses attributable thereto will be charged to the offending discharger by the City.

any refusal to pay such maintenance expenses duly authorized by the City shall
constitute a violation of these Rules and Regulations.

SECTION 2.03 Discharge of Rainwater_or Uncontaminated Water Prohibited. No
person shall discnarge or cause to be discharged any rainwater, storm water,

ground waste, street d@rainage, subsurface drainage, yard drainage, water from yard
fountains, ponds or lawn sprays, OT any other uncomtaminated water into any sanitary
sewerage facility which directly or indirectly discharges to facilities owned by
the City. at

SECTION 2.04 Prohibited Waste Discharges. In most cases, the concentration or
amount of a particular constituent which will be judged to be excessive or
unreasonable cannot be forseen put will depend on the results of technical deter-
minations or the actions of regulatory agencies. ‘The list of constituents which
may be regulated provides specific limits only where they are now reasonably well
established. The other constituents in the list are presented with the objective
of enumerating the types of wastes which will be reguiated from time to time.

Except as provided in Section 2.06, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to a public sanitary sewer the following wastes:

aR) Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity 4ré,

f=

252 of 891


--- page 253 ---
6x may be, sufficient e1...er alone or by interaction wit other substances to

cause fire or explosion: be injurious in any other way o the POTW or to the
operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter, at any point in the system be more than five percent (5%) nor any
single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited =o, gasoline, kerosene, naptha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, alaehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any other substances
which the City, the State or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard
to the system. ,

B) Any waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, licuids, or gases in such —
quantity that alone, or in combination with other waste substances, may create

a hazard to humans, animals, or the local environment, interfere detrimentally
with wastewater treatment processes, cause a public nuisance or cause any hazardous
condition to occur in the sewerage system.

C) Any waste having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any corrosive or detrimental
characteristic that may cause injury to wastewater treatment or maintenance
personnel.

D) Any solids or viscous substances of such size or in such quantity that they
may cause flow obstruction in the sewer or be detrimental to proper wastewater
treatment plant operations. These objectionable substances include, but are not
limited to, asphalt, dead animals, offal, ashes, sand, mud, straw, industrial
process shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,’plastics, wood, whole blood,
paunch manure, bones, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, paper cups, milk
containers, or other similar paper products, either whole or cround.

E) Any rainwater, storm water, groundwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage,
roof drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains, ponds or lawn sprays or
any other uncontaminated water. ;

F) Any water added for the purpose of diluting wastes which would otherwise exceed
applicable maximum concentration limitation.

G) Any nonbiodegradable cutting oils, commoniy called soluble oil, which form
persistent water emulsions.

H) Any excessive concentrations cf nonbiogegradable oil, petroleum oil or refined
petroleum products.

I) Any dispersed biodegradable oiis and fats, such as lard, tallow or vegetable
oil in excessive concentrations that would tend to cause adverse effects on the
sewerage system.

3) Any upreasonably large amounts of undissolved or dissolved solids.

K) Any wastes with excessively high BOD, COD or decomposable organic content.

L) Any strongly odorous waste cr waste tending to create odors.

M) Any wastes containing over 0.1 milligram/liter of dissolved sulfides.

N) Any wastes with a pH high enough to cause alkaline incrustations on sewer walls.

253 of 891


--- page 254 ---
'O) Any substance prome 4g or causing the promotion of oxic gases.
P) Any waste having a temperature of 120 degrees F. or higher.

Q) Any wastes requiring an excessive quantity of chlorine or other chemical
compound used for disinfection purposes.

R) Any excessive amounts of chlorinated hydrocarbon or organic phosphorus type
compounds.

S) Any excessive amount of deimized water, steam condensate or distilled water.

T) Any waste containing substances that may precipitate, solidify or become
viscous at temperature between 50 degrees F. and 100 degrees F.

U) Any waste producing excessive discoloration of wastewater or treatment plant
effluent.

V) Any garbage or waste that is not grand sufficiently to pass through a 3/8-inch
screen.

W) Any wastes containing excessive quantities of iron, boron, chromium, phenols,
plastic resins, copper, nickel, zinc, lead, mercury, camium, selenium, arsenic or

‘any other objectionable materals toxic to humans, animals, the local environment
or ‘to biological or other wastewater treatment processes.

X) Any blow-down or bleed water from cooling towers or other evaporation coolers
exceeding one-third of the makeup water.

Y) Any single pass cooling water.
Z) Any quantities of radioactive material wastes.
aa) Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.

No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public sewer any wastes,
if in the opinion of the City such wastes may have an adverse or harmful effect on
sewers, maintenance personnel, wastewater treatment plant personnel or equipment,
treatment plant effluent quality, public or private property, or may otherwise
endanger the public, the local environment or create a public nuisance. The City,
in determining the acceptability of specific wastes, shall consider the nature of
the waste and the adequacy and nature of the collection, treatment and disposal
system available to accept the waste.

The City shall from time to time prepare a list of the maximum permissible quantities
or concentrations of certain constituents in industrial waste water flows and other-

wise issue detailed directions for meeting the requirements of this Section.

SECTION 2.05 Hospital Wastes. Hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors, and
convalescent homes:

A) May G@ischarge, through a City approved grinder installation with inlet size and

design features suitable for its intended use and so constructed that all particles
pass through a maximum 3/8-inch opening, wastes of the following categories:

254 of 891


--- page 255 ---
1) Wet organic kite , wastes from food preparation nd disposal but
excluding all paper and plastic items.

2) Disposable hypodermic needles, syringes and associated articles
following their use.

3) Infectious wastes, defined as:

a) Laboratory and surgical operating room wastes except as exclude@ in
{(B) (2) below.

b) Wastes from outpatient areas and emergency rooms similar to those
included in (a) above.

c) Solid wastes generated in the rooms of patients who are not isolated
because of a suspected or diagnosed communicable disease.

B) Shall not discharge to the sewer by any means:

1) Equipment, instruments, utensils an@ other materials of a disposable
nature that may harbor or transmit pathogenic organisms and that are used
in the rooms of patients having a suspected or diagnosed communicable
disease which by the nature of the disease is required to be isolated.

2) Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.

3) Wastes excluded by other provisions of these Rules and Regulations
except as specifically permitted in {A) above.—--

4) All solid wastes not included in (A) above.

Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Health
Officer of San Mateo to define wastes as being infectious and, with the concurrence
of the City, to require that they not be discharged to the sewer.

SECTION 2.06 Limitations on Wastewater Strength. No person shall discharge waste-

ee eee

water containing in excess of:

O.1 mg/l arsenic

0.2 mg/l cadmium

2.0 mg/l copper

1.0 mg/l cyanide

1.0 mg/l lead

0.01 mg/l mercury

1.0 mg/l nickel

0.2 mg/l silver

0.5 mg/l total chromium
3.0 mg/l zinc

The City shall lower the concentration limitations for the above constituents if it
is evident that the wastewater from any one or number of dischargers is causing the
effluent from the Water Quality Control Plant to exceed the limits set forth in the
City's NPDES permit.

255 of 891


--- page 256 ---
(SECTION 2.07 Pretreatment of Industrial Wastewaters. An industrial wastewater pre-
treatment system or device may be required by the City to treat industrial flows
prior to discharge to the’ sewer when it is necessary to restrict or prevent the dis-
charge to the sewer of certain waste constituents, to distribute more equally over a
longer time period any peak discharges of industrial wastewaters or to accomplish any
pretreatment result required by the City. All pretreatment systems or devices shall
be approved by the City but such approval shall not absolve the industrial discharg-
er of the responsibility of meeting any industrial effluent limitation required by
the City. In special cases, the City may require construction of sewer lines by the
discharger to convey certain industrial wastes to a specific City trunk sewer. All
pretreatment systems judged by the City to require engineering design shall have
plans prepared and signed by an engineer of suitable discipline licensed in the State
of California.

Approval of plans and specifications of pretreatment facilities pursuant to this sec-
tion shall not relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such pretreat
facilities as necessary to produce effluent therefrom complying with all pertinent
provisions of this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or any
other requirements of law. Any proposed cessation of use, or alteration, modifica-~
tion or other change to approved pretreatment facilities or any portion thereof, or
any change in method of operation thereof, shall be reported to the City prior to
commencement thereof, and shall be subject to the approval of the City. Such approv-
al may be withheld, granted, or granted subject to such terms, conditions or require-
ments as the City may reasonably require in order to ensure compliance with the pro-~
visions of this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.

Normally a gravity separation interceptor, equalizing tank, neutralization chamber
and control manhole will be required respectively to remove prohibited settleable
and floatable solids, to equalize wastewater streams varying greatly in quantity
and/or quality, to neutralize low or high pH flows and to facilitate inspection,
flow measurement and sampling. Floor drains from commercial or manufacturing build-
ings, warehouses, or multi-use structures shall not discharge directly to the sewer,
but shall first discharge to a gravity separation interceptor.

SECTION 2.08 Discharees from Portable Sanitation Facility. No person shall dis-
charge or cause to be discharged directly or indirectly to a public sewer any
wastes originating from recreational vehicles, boats, campers, mobile homes, trail-
ers, portable toilets, chemical toilets, or any temporary sanitation facility ex-
cept as designated by the City Engineer.

The City shall designate the location, time, quantity and quality of discharge of
wastes originating from portable sanitation facilities.

‘

256 of 891


--- page 257 ---
ARTICLE III

DISCHARGE REPORT, WACTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS,

DISCHARGE REPOR?, his

AND ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 3.01 Discharge Reports. The City may require that any person discharging

or proposing to discharge wastewater into a community sewer file a periodic Discharge
Report. The Discharge Report may include, but not be limited to, nature of process,
volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production quantities, hours of operations,
number and classification of employees, or other information which relates to the
generation of waste including wastewater discharge. Such reports may also include
the chemical constituents and quantity of liguid or gaseous materials stored on

site even though they are not normally discharged. In addition to Discharge Reports,
the City may require information in the form of Wastewater Discharge Permit applica-
tions and self-monitoring reports.

SECTION 3.02 Permit for Industrial Wastewater Discharge. No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged any industrial wastewaters directly or indirectly to sewage
facilities owned by the City without first obtaining a City permit for industrial
wastewater discharge.

The permit for industrial wastewater discharge may require pretreatment of industrial
wastewaters before discharge, restriction of peak flow discharges, discharge of
certain wastewaters only to specified sewers, relocation of point of discharge, pro-
hibition of certain wastewater components, restriction of discharge to certain hours
of the day, payment of additional charges to defray increased cost to the City created
by the wastewater discharge and such other conditions as may be required to effectuate
the purpose of these Rules and Regulations.

No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in excess of the quantity or quality
limitations set by the Permit for Industrial Wastewater Discharge. Any person
desiring to discharge wastewaters or use facilities which are not in conformance with
the Industrial Wastewater Permit should apply to the City for an amended Permit.

State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they
are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this ordi-
nance.

Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particu-
ler industrial subcategory, the federal standards for a particular industrial sub-
catecory, if more stringent than limitations imposed under this ordinance for sources
in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this

ordinance. The City Engineer shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 CFR Section 403.12.

SECTION 3.035 Permit Conditions.
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this
ordinance ané all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established

by the City. Permits may contain the following:

a) The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the wastewater
to be Gischarged to a community sewer;

b) Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics.

¢) Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or requirements for
-$-

257 of 891


--- page 258 ---
flow regulations ac equalization.

&) Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities;

e) Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling locations,
frequency ‘of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and reporting
schedule;

£) Compliance schedules.
g) Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports.

h) Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to waste-
water discharge as specified by the City, and affording City access thereto;

i) Requirement for notification of the City for any new introduction of waste-
water constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.

3) Requirements for notification of slug discharges.

k) The permits duration shall be for a specified time period. The terms and
conditions of the Permit may be subject to modification by the City during
the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified are
modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in his permit at least 30 Gays prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include @
reasonable time schedule for compliance.

SECTION 3.03 Permit Application. |

Users seeking an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit shall complete and file
with the City, an application in the form prescribed by the City, and accompanied
by the applicable fees. The applicant may be required to submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:

a) Name and address of applicant;

b) Volume of wastewater to be discharged;

c) Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not limited to
those mentioned in Article II as determined by a laboratory approved by the City.

dad) Time and duration of discharge;

e) Average and 30-minute minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonable variations if any; s

£) Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plubming plans and details to show
all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.

~10-

258 of 891


--- page 259 ---
._ g) Description of é activities, facilities and pl = process on the premises
including types of materials which are or could be discharged;

h) Each product produced by type, amour-., and rate of production;
i) Number and type of employees, and hours of work;

3) Any other information as may be Geemed by the City to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application.

SECTION 3.04 Transfer oF a Permit.

Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A Wastewater Discharge Permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new Or changed operation.

SECTION 3.045 Compliance Report

Within 90 deys following the date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the introduction
of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and require-
ments shall submit to the City a report indicating the nature and concentration of

all pollutants in the discharge from the regulate® process which are limited by
pretreatment standerds and requirements and the average und maximum daily flow for
these process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
Standards or requirements are being met on a consistent_basis and, if mot, what measures
are being taken to bring the user into full compliance with ali applicable pretreatment
standards or reauirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representa-~
tive of the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified professional.

SECTION 3.046 Periodic Compliamce Report
1. Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such
pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new spurce, after commencement of the
discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the City during the months of June and
cember, unless recuired more fremuently by the City, a report indicating the nature
ané concentration, ef pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreat-
ment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record cf all daily fiows
which during the reporting period exceeded the average Gaily flow.

2. The City may impose mass limitations on users which are using dilution to meet
applicable pretrea=ment standards or requirements, or in other cases where the
imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the compliance report
shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the users
effluent. These zeports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, incluéing the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass
where requested by the City, of pollutants contained therein which are limited by the
applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in
the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis and sampling shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the City.

= T<

259 of 891


--- page 260 ---
SECTION 3.05 Administ: -ion.

Except as otherwise provided hereir, the City s.iall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of these rules and regulations. Any powers granted to the
City may be delegated by the City to persons acting in the beneficial interest of,
or employ, of the City.

SECTION 3.06 Monitoring Facilities.

The City shall require to be provided and operated at the user's own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the
building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises, but the City may, when such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be
obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.

There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling,
and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user.

Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the City's requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be
completed within 90 days following written notification by the City.

SECTION 3.07 Inspection and Sampling.

Tne City shall inspect the facilities of any User to ascertain whether the purpose

of this Ordinance is being met and all requirements are being complied with. Persons
or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the
City or their representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination or in the
performance of any of their duties. The City, Approval Authority and (where the
NPDES State is the Approval Authority) the EPA shall have the right to set up on the
User's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, com-
pliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a User has security measures in
‘€orce which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into

their premises, the User shall make necessary arrangements with their security

guards so that upon presentation of suitable id@entification, personnel from the

City, Approval Authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for

the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.

SECTION 3.08 Pretreatment.

Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with this
Ordinance and shall achieve compliance with all Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards within the time limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment
Regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable
to the City shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the User's expense.
tailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall

construction of the facility. The review cf such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the User from the responsibility of modifying the facility

ale

260 of 891


--- page 261 ---
as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the City under the provisions cf
‘this Ordinance. Any subseguent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the City prior to the User's
initiation of the changes.

All records relating to compliance with Pretreatment Standards shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request.

SECTION 3.09 Confidential Information.

Information and data on a User obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the User specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the City that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the User.

When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this Ordinance, une National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal System Permit and/or

the Pretreatment Programs; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall

be availablefor use by the State or any State Agency’ in judicial review of enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information.

Information accepted by the City as confidential shall.not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the City until and unless a ten-
Gay notification is given to the User.

SECTION 3.1 - Fees.

3.15 Purpose.

It is the purpose of this sect-on to provide for the recovery of costs from users
of the City's Wastewater Disposal System for the implementation of the Program
established herein. The epplicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the City's
schedule of charges and fees which is adopted by resolution, and is subject to
periodic change to reflect changes in cost of operating the program.

3.20 Charges and Fees.

The City may adopt charges and fees which may include:

a) Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the City's
Pretreatment Program;

b) Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
¢) Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
a) Fees for permit applications;

e) Fees for filing appeals;

261 of 891


--- page 262 ---
£)

g)

Fees for consistent removal (by the City) of pollutants otherwise subject to
federal pretreatment standards.

Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements contained
herein; these fees relate solely to the matters covered by this ordinance and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the City. ;

Pele

262 of 891


--- page 263 ---
ARTICLE IV

ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 4.01 Accidental Discharges.

SECTION 4.01.1 Notification of Discharge. Dischargers shall notify the City
immediately upon accidentally discharging wastes in violation of these Rules
and Regulations to enable countermeasures to be taken by the City to minimize
damage to the community sewer, treatment facility, treatment processes and the
receiving waters.

This notification shall be followed within 15 days of the date of occurrence
by a detailed written statement describing the causes of the accidental dis-
charge and the measures being taken to prevent future occurrence.

Such notification will not relieve dischargers of liability for any expense,
loss or Gamage to the sewer system, treatment plant, or treatment process, or
for any fines imposed on the City on account thereof under Section 13250 of the
California Water Code or for violations of Section 5650 of the California Fish
and Game Code.

SECTION 4.01.2 Notices to Employees. in orger that employees of dischargers
be informed of City requirements, dischargers shall make available to their em-
ployees copies of these Rules and Regulations together with such other waste~-
water information and notices which may be furnished by the City, from time to
time, directed toward more effective water pollution control. A notice shall
be furnished and permanently posted on the discharcer's bulletin board advising
employees who to call in case of an accidental discharge in violation of Rules
and Regulations.

SECTION 4.01.3 Preventive Measures. Any @irect or indirect connection or entry
point for Geleterious wastes to the discharger's plumbing or drainage system
should be eliminated. Where such action is impractical or unreasonable, the
user should appropriately label such entry points to warn against discharge of
such wastes in violation of these Rules and Regulations.

SECTION 4.02 Enforcement. The City may suspend a permit for industrial waste-
water Gischarae when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the environment, to the
City's sewerage system, causes interference to the City's Water Quality Control
Plant or causes the City to violate any condition of its NPDES Permit.

Any discharger notified of a suspension of his industrial wastewater permit shall
imme@iately cease and desist the discharge of all industrial wastewater to the
sewerage system. In the event of a failure of the discharger to comply voluntar-
ily with the suspension, the City shall take such steps as deemed necessary, in-
cluding immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize dam-
age to the City's Water Quality Control Plant system or endangerment to any
individuals.

The City shall reinstate the permit for industrial wastewater aischarge upon procs
of the elimination of the non-complying discharger. A detailed written statement

=15-

263 of 891


--- page 264 ---
submitted by the User describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the City
within 15 @ays of the date of the occurrence.

SECTION 4.03 Revocation of Permit. Any User who violates the following con-
ditions of this Ordinance or applicable state and federal regulations is subject
to having his permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of Section 4 of
this Ordinance:

a) Failure of a User to factually repo-t the wastewater constituents and char-
acteristics of his discharge;

b) Failure of the User to report significant changes in operations or waste-
water constituents and characteristics;

¢) Refusal of reasonable access to the User's premises for the purpose of in-
spection or monitoring; or, ,

a) Vdiolation of conditions of the permit.

SECTION 4.04 Notification of Violation. Whenever the City finds that any User
has violated or is violating this Oréinance, wastewater contribution permit, or
any prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the City may serve
upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within
30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction there-
of shall be submitted to the City by the User.

SECTION 4.05 Show Cause Hearing.

4.05.1 The City may order any User. who causes or allows an unauthorized dis-
charge to enter the Water Quality Control Plant to show cause before the City
Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice

shall be served on the User specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by the City Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action

is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the User to show
cause before the City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered

or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least (ten) days before the hear-
ing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.

4.05.2 The City Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence,

ox may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the (assigned
department) to:

a) Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence rele-
vant to any matter involved in such hearings.

b) Take the evidence;

c) Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and
other evidence, together with recommendations to the City Council for action
thereon

>

05.3 At any hearing held pursuant to this Ordinance, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will

<16~

264 of 891


--- page 265 ---
‘be made available to any member of the public or any pucty to the hearing upon
‘ payment of the usual charges thereof.

4.05.4 after the City Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order
to the User responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facil-~
ities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed on exis-
ting treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may _
be issued.

SECTION 4.06 Legal Action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes
or other wastes into the City's wastewater disposal system contrary to the pro-
visions of this Ordinance, Federal or State Pretreatment Requirements, or any
order of the City, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate court.

SECTION 4.07 Submission of Time Schedule. When the City finds that a discharge
of wastewater has been taking place, in violation of prohibitions or limitations
prescribed in these Rules and Regulations, or wastewater source control require-
ments, effluent limitations or pretreatment standards, or the provisions of a
Wastewater Discharge Permit, the City may require the User to submit for approv-
al a detailed time schedule of specific actions which the User shall take in
order to prevent or correct a violation of requirements.

SECTION 4.08 Penalty for Violation. Any person violating any provision of these
Rules and Reguiations, including 3 the failure to pay any fees or charges imposed

hereby, or any condition of a permit or plan approval issued pursuant thereto,

is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500, and/or

imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or both. :

SECTION 4.09 Inspectors. Adequate identification will be provided by the City
for all inspectors and other authorized personnel, and these persons shall iden-
tify themselves when entering any property for inspection purposes or when in-
specting the work of any contractor.

Inspection of every facility that is involved directiy or indirectly with the
ischarge of wastewater in the City's sewerage systems may be made by the City
as deemed necessary. These facilities shall include but not be limiteé to
sewers; sewage pumping plants; pollution control plants; all industrial pro-
cesses; industrial wastewater generation conveyance and pretreatment facilities,
devices and connection sewers; and all similar sewerage facilities. Inspections
may be made to determine that such facilities are maintained and operated prop-
exly and are adequate to meet the provisions of these Rules and Regulations.

Ld

Recess to all of the above facilities or to other facilities directly or in-
Girectly connected to the City's sewerage systems shall be given to authorized
personnel of the City at all reasonable times including those occasioned by
emergency conditions. Any permanent or temporary obstruction to easy access to
the sewerage facility to be inspected shall promptly be removed by the facility
user or owner at the written or verbal request of the City and shall not be re-
placed.

No person shall interfere with, delay, resist or ref fuse entrance to an author-
ized city's inspector attempting to inspect any wastewater generation, conven-
ance or treatment facility connected directly or indirectly to the city's sewerage
systems.

PG ey

265 of 891


--- page 266 ---
ARTICLE V

INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER THEATMENT SURUHARGE

SECTION 5.01 Surcharge Formula. An industrial wasterwater treatment

surcharge shall be paid to the City annually, within six months of the end of
the fiscal year in which charges accrue, by those industrial wastewater
discharges whose contribution of flow, chemical oxygen demand, suspended
solids, or peak flow create costs in excess of their annual sewer service
charge. The treatment surcharge shall be based on the City's sanitary sewerage
system's total maintenance, operation and capital expenditures for providing
industrial wastewater collection, treatment and disposal services in the fiscal
year for which charges are assessed as described in section 5.02.

The annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge shall be computed by the
following forma:

Surcharge = a (V) +b (COD) + c(SS) + aM(P) - Sewer Service Charge
Where:

Surcharge = Net annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge in dollars.
No refund will be made if a negative number results.

v = Total annual volume of flow, in millions of gallons.

coD = Total annual discharge of chemical oxygen demand, in thousands of
pounds. - ,

ss = Total annual discharge of suspended solids in thousands of pounds.

: = Peak discharge rate over a 30-minute period, occurring er the

hours of 8:00 asm. and 10:00 p.m, and determined by averaging a
maximum of 10 substantiated peak flow rate measurements of the

accrual year in gellons per minute. Values of "P" less than 10
gallons per minute shall be considered equal to zero.

A = Average discharge rate, determined by dividing "V" by the total
annual hours of operation or working time of the indéustrial
Gischarger, in gellons per minute (see M).

a,b,¢,d = Unit charge rates adopted annually by the City of San Mateo based
upon the projected annual costs for wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal, in dollars per unit as described in
Section 5.02.

bt = & miltiplying factor accounting for increased city costs due to the
ratios of industrial discharger peak - average flow rates (P/A);
Factor "MN" is obtained from Figure 1. (M = 2.50 log P/A)

Sewer Service Charge = The annual sewer service charge paid to the City during
the accrual year.

SECTION 5.02. Establishment of unit charge rates for industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge.

Exhibit A

266 of 891


--- page 267 ---
a

ae

*

et tt ta

me" ohe charge rates “at, 7", "eo" end "a" in the industric’. wastewater treatment
» surcharge shall be este uashed annually by the procedi Gescribed hercin.

Appropriete unit charge rate parameters for flow, COD and suspended sclids ~
respectively designated "Q" (in dollars per million gallons), "b" (in dollars
per 1000 pounds of cop) and "ce" (in dollars per 1000 pounds of suspended
solids) - shall be determined by the following method: .
(A) The total capital outlay for construction of sewerage facilities including
debt principal and interest over the next fiscal year less anticipated grant ,
funds shall be estimated and distributed among the three parameters in
accordance with the City's determination of the percentage of the total
existing capital facilities of the sewerage system predominantly related to
each parameter. —

(3B) The total operation and maintenance costs of the system shall be estimated
for the-next fiscal year and distributed among the three parameters in
accordence with City's determination as to which charges are predominantly

related to.each parameter.

(c) The sum of the capital costs and operation and maintenance costs
determined for each parameter in (A) and (B) above shall be divided by the
projected one year total volume of wastewater and weight of COD and suspended
solids to be treated by the sewerage system in order to obtein the unit charge

rates "a", "b", "ce", forthe system.

The unit charge rate related to peak flow rate and designated "d" (in dollars
per gallon per minute .of peak flow) shall be determined by the following

' method;

(4) The total non-depreciated value of the bistoriec capital investment in the
serving (Collection and Treatment) system shall be divided by the total peak
hydraulic. capacity of-the treatment facilities to determine a unit cost per
million_gallons.per day of peak flow capacity.

(3B) The unit cost determined in (A) above shall be anortized over thirty (30)

years at seven (7) percent interest and converted to e gallon per minute basis
to obain the unit charge rete “d".

267 of 891


--- page 268 ---
_ DISTRICT

\ METER
\:
‘i } CRYSTAL SPRINa

a $s

=

LONG /

°
Mm
7 Na \s
th
" ong

REE

SANITARY SEWAGE.
BETWEEN

, eR
Fa come RS SK PAN \ a \4 »\
: \\ f a> ye \ 4 y . W\\ \ K\ ‘ ”

wae wr or wr mr warm ws SYMBOL FOLLOWS ALIGNMENT OF TRUNK SEWERS OF SO fi vatyaat

P STATION
CSUR NS

3:
268 of 891


--- page 269 ---
SANT SRY SEWER USE RULES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 1.01 Purpose and Policy. These Sanitary Sewer Use Rules and
“Reculations set uniform requirements for discharges into the wastewater
collection and treatment system and enable the City of San Mateo to comply with
the administrative provisions of the Clean Water Grant Regulations, the water
quality requirements set by the Regional Water Quality Control Board and the
applicable effluent limitations, national standards of performance, toxic and
pretreatment effluent standards, and all other discharge eriteria which are
required or authorized by State or Federal law, and to derive the maximum
public benefit by regulating the quality and quantity of wastewater discharged
into the City of San Mateo's sewer system.

These Rules and Regulations provide a means for determining wastewater volumes,
constituents and characteristics, the setting of charges and fees, and the
issuance of permits to certain users.

Revenues derived from the application of these Rules and Regulations shall be
used to defray the City's cost of operating and maintaining adequate wastewater
collection and treatment systems and to provide sufficient funds for capital
outlay, bond service costs, capital improvements, and Gepreciation. Charges
and fees, as hereinafter referred to, are and have been established pursuant to
City of San Mateo Ordinances.

These Rules and Regulations are not intended to be inconsistent with or repeal
any provisions of said Ordinances or any amendments thereto, and in the event
that any provision of these Rules and Regulations is found to be inconsistent
with any provision of said Ordinances, the provisions of said Ordinances shall
sapply. = ; ;

SECTION 1.02 Definitions.

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

ACT or "the Act." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known @s the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et sed.

BOD or Biochemical Oxygen Demand. "BOD" or "biochemical oxygen demanda" shall
mean the measure of decomposable organic material in domestic or industrial
wastewaters as represented by the oxygen utilized in decomposition over a
period of incubation of five days at 20 degrees C. and as determined by the
appropriate procedure in “Standard Methods".

COD or Chemical Oxygen Demand. "COD" or "chemical oxygen demand"-shall mean
the measure of chemically decomposable material in domestic or industrial
wastewater as represented by the oxycen utilized as determined by the

appropriate procedure described in "Standard Methods”.

Discharger. "Dischargex™ shall mean any person who discharges or causes 4
@ischarge to a public sewer.

issolved Solids. "Dissolved solids” or "Gissolved matter” shall mean the
solid matter in solution in the wastewater and shall be obtained by evaporation
of a sample from which all suspended matter has been removed by filtaration as
determined by the procedures in "Standard Methods".

269 of 891


--- page 270 ---
7)
8)
9)

10)
11)

12)

13)

14)

15)

16)

17)

18)

a9)

20)

pomestic Wastewater. ““omestic wastewater" shall mean the water~carried

wastes and wastewate: produced from non-commercial o: on-industrial activities

and which result from normal human living processes.

Effluent. "Effluent" shall mean the liguid outflow of any facility designed
to treat, convey or retain wastewater.

Grab Sample. A sa>ple which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of time.

Holding Tank Waste. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.

House Connection. “House connection” shall mean the sewer connecting the
building sewer or building waste drainage system to the public sewer for the
purpese of conveying domestic wastewater.

Industrizl Connection Sewer. “rnd@ustrial connection sewer" shall mean the sewer
connecting the building sewer or building waste drainage system to the public
sewer for the purpose of conveying industrial wastewater.

Industrial Wastewater. "Industrial wastewater" shall mean all watercarried
wastes and wastewater of the community excluding domestic wastewater and
uncontaminated water, and shall include all wastewater from any producing,
manufacturing, processing, institutional, commercial, agricultural, ox other
operation where the wastewater discharged includes significant quantities of
wastes from non-human origin.

Inspector. “Inspector” shall mean a person authorized by the City Engineer to
inspect wastewater generation, conveyance, processing, and a@isposal facilities.

Gravity Separation Interceptor. "Gravity separation interceptor" shall mean any
facility designed, constructed and operated for the purpose of removing and
retaining dangerous, deleterious or prohibited constituents from wastewater by
differential gravity separation before discharge to the public sewer.

Lateral Sewer, Collecting Sewer, Or Main Line Sewer. “Lateral sewer", "collecting
sewer," or "main line sewer", shall mean the public sewer used to collect waste-

water from house connection and industrial connection sewers and transport it to

trunk sewers. -

Peak Flow Rate. “Peak flow rate" shall mean the average rate at which wastewater
is discharged to a public sewer Guring the highest 30 minute flow period in the
preceding 12 months.

Pollution. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.

Pre-Treatment or Treatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, or the
alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful
state prior to or in lieu of Gischarging or otherwise introducing such chemical
er biological processes, or process changes other means, except as prohibited
by 40 CFR Section 403.6(d).

Public Sewer. "Public sewer" shall mean any sewer dedicated to public use and
whose use is controlled by a public corporation.

Publically Owned Treatment Works (POTW). A treatment works as defined by Section
212 of the act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the City.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to

a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this ordinance, "POTW" shall
also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside

270 of 891


--- page 271 ---
21)

22)

23)

24)
25)
26)
27)
28)

29)

30)

i

the (City) who are, contract or agreement with the(City) users of the
(City's) POTW.

Sewage. "Sewage" shall mean wastewater.

Sewase Pumping Plant. "Sewage pumping plant" shall mean any facility designed
and constructed to raise wastewater in elevation or to overcome head losses
due to pipeline friction.

Sewer: te. "Sewerage" shall mean any and all facilities used for collecting,
conveying, pumping, treating and disposing of wastewater.

Sewerage System. "Sewerage system" shall mean @ network of wastewater collection,
conveyance, treatment and disposal facilities interconnected by sewers and owned
by the City.

Standard Methods. "Standard methods" shall mean the current edition of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” as published by the
American Public Health Association.

Suspended Solids. “Suspended solids” or "suspended matter" shall mean the
insoluble solid matter suspended in wastewater that is separable by laboratory
filtration in accordance with the procedures described in "Standard Methods."

Toxic Pollutant. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administer of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of GWA 307(a) or other acts.

Trunk Sewer. "Trunk sewer" shall mean a sewer constructed, maintained and
operated by the City that conveys wastewater to City's treatment facilities ana
into which lateral and collecting sewers discharge.

Uncontaminated Water. "uncontaminated water" shall™mean any wasted water of the
community not contaminated or polluted with wastewater and which is suitable or
could readily be made suitable for discharge to the municpal storm water drainage
system.

Wastewater. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
d@wellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed
into or permitted to enter the POTW.

SECTION 1.03 Abbreviations.

The

BOD
CFR
CoD
EPA
L

mg

following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:

- Biochemical Oxygen Demand

- Code of Federal Regulations

- Chemical Oxygen Demand

- Environmental Protection Agency
- Liter

~- Milligrams

mg/l - Milligrams per Liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW < Publicly Owned Treatment Works

sic

- Standard Industrial Classification

SWDA <- Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et. seq

use
TSS

- United States Code
- Total Suspended Solids

271 of 891


--- page 272 ---
ARTICLE Il
REGULATIONS

SECTION 2.01 Approval of Plans for Sewerage Construction. No person, other than
employees of the City, persons contracting to do work for the City, or maintenance
workers of the City shall construct or cause to be constructed, or alter or cause

to be altered, any public sewer, lateral sewer, house connection or industrial
connection sewer, sewage pumping plant, pollution control plant, or other sewerage
facility within the City where existing or proposed wastewater flows will discharge
directly or indirectly to facilities of the City without First obtaining approval of
sewerage construction plans from the City. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere
with the operation or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to
all such users of a POTW wnether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state, Or local pretreatment standards
or requirements.

The applicant shall submit to the City for approval, construction plans and such
specifications and other details as required to aescribe fully the proposed sewerage
facility. The plans shall have been prepared under the supervision of and shall be
signed by an engineer of suitable training registered in the State of California.

Plans for sewerage construction shali conform to the current design requirements
and standard specifications of the City of San Mateo.

SECTION 2.02 Excessive Sewer Maintenance Expense. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged to a public sewer any waste that creates a stoppage, plugging,
breakage, any reduction in sewer capacity or any other damage to sewers or sewerage
facilities of the City. Any sewer or sewerage maintenance expenses or any other
expenses attributable thereto will be charged to the offending discharger by the City.

any refusal to pay such maintenance expenses duly authorized by the City shall
constitute a violation of these Rules and Regulations.

SECTION 2.03 Discharge of Rainwater_or Uncontaminated Water Prohibited. No
person shall discnarge or cause to be discharged any rainwater, storm water,

ground waste, street d@rainage, subsurface drainage, yard drainage, water from yard
fountains, ponds or lawn sprays, OT any other uncomtaminated water into any sanitary
sewerage facility which directly or indirectly discharges to facilities owned by
the City. at

SECTION 2.04 Prohibited Waste Discharges. In most cases, the concentration or
amount of a particular constituent which will be judged to be excessive or
unreasonable cannot be forseen put will depend on the results of technical deter-
minations or the actions of regulatory agencies. ‘The list of constituents which
may be regulated provides specific limits only where they are now reasonably well
established. The other constituents in the list are presented with the objective
of enumerating the types of wastes which will be reguiated from time to time.

Except as provided in Section 2.06, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to a public sanitary sewer the following wastes:

aR) Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity 4ré,

f=

272 of 891


--- page 273 ---
6x may be, sufficient e1...er alone or by interaction wit other substances to

cause fire or explosion: be injurious in any other way o the POTW or to the
operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter, at any point in the system be more than five percent (5%) nor any
single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited =o, gasoline, kerosene, naptha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, alaehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides and any other substances
which the City, the State or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard
to the system. ,

B) Any waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, licuids, or gases in such —
quantity that alone, or in combination with other waste substances, may create

a hazard to humans, animals, or the local environment, interfere detrimentally
with wastewater treatment processes, cause a public nuisance or cause any hazardous
condition to occur in the sewerage system.

C) Any waste having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any corrosive or detrimental
characteristic that may cause injury to wastewater treatment or maintenance
personnel.

D) Any solids or viscous substances of such size or in such quantity that they
may cause flow obstruction in the sewer or be detrimental to proper wastewater
treatment plant operations. These objectionable substances include, but are not
limited to, asphalt, dead animals, offal, ashes, sand, mud, straw, industrial
process shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,’plastics, wood, whole blood,
paunch manure, bones, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, paper cups, milk
containers, or other similar paper products, either whole or cround.

E) Any rainwater, storm water, groundwater, street drainage, subsurface drainage,
roof drainage, yard drainage, water from yard fountains, ponds or lawn sprays or
any other uncontaminated water. ;

F) Any water added for the purpose of diluting wastes which would otherwise exceed
applicable maximum concentration limitation.

G) Any nonbiodegradable cutting oils, commoniy called soluble oil, which form
persistent water emulsions.

H) Any excessive concentrations cf nonbiogegradable oil, petroleum oil or refined
petroleum products.

I) Any dispersed biodegradable oiis and fats, such as lard, tallow or vegetable
oil in excessive concentrations that would tend to cause adverse effects on the
sewerage system.

3) Any upreasonably large amounts of undissolved or dissolved solids.

K) Any wastes with excessively high BOD, COD or decomposable organic content.

L) Any strongly odorous waste cr waste tending to create odors.

M) Any wastes containing over 0.1 milligram/liter of dissolved sulfides.

N) Any wastes with a pH high enough to cause alkaline incrustations on sewer walls.

273 of 891


--- page 274 ---
'O) Any substance prome 4g or causing the promotion of oxic gases.
P) Any waste having a temperature of 120 degrees F. or higher.

Q) Any wastes requiring an excessive quantity of chlorine or other chemical
compound used for disinfection purposes.

R) Any excessive amounts of chlorinated hydrocarbon or organic phosphorus type
compounds.

S) Any excessive amount of deimized water, steam condensate or distilled water.

T) Any waste containing substances that may precipitate, solidify or become
viscous at temperature between 50 degrees F. and 100 degrees F.

U) Any waste producing excessive discoloration of wastewater or treatment plant
effluent.

V) Any garbage or waste that is not grand sufficiently to pass through a 3/8-inch
screen.

W) Any wastes containing excessive quantities of iron, boron, chromium, phenols,
plastic resins, copper, nickel, zinc, lead, mercury, camium, selenium, arsenic or

‘any other objectionable materals toxic to humans, animals, the local environment
or ‘to biological or other wastewater treatment processes.

X) Any blow-down or bleed water from cooling towers or other evaporation coolers
exceeding one-third of the makeup water.

Y) Any single pass cooling water.
Z) Any quantities of radioactive material wastes.
aa) Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.

No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public sewer any wastes,
if in the opinion of the City such wastes may have an adverse or harmful effect on
sewers, maintenance personnel, wastewater treatment plant personnel or equipment,
treatment plant effluent quality, public or private property, or may otherwise
endanger the public, the local environment or create a public nuisance. The City,
in determining the acceptability of specific wastes, shall consider the nature of
the waste and the adequacy and nature of the collection, treatment and disposal
system available to accept the waste.

The City shall from time to time prepare a list of the maximum permissible quantities
or concentrations of certain constituents in industrial waste water flows and other-

wise issue detailed directions for meeting the requirements of this Section.

SECTION 2.05 Hospital Wastes. Hospitals, clinics, offices of medical doctors, and
convalescent homes:

A) May G@ischarge, through a City approved grinder installation with inlet size and

design features suitable for its intended use and so constructed that all particles
pass through a maximum 3/8-inch opening, wastes of the following categories:

274 of 891


--- page 275 ---
1) Wet organic kite , wastes from food preparation nd disposal but
excluding all paper and plastic items.

2) Disposable hypodermic needles, syringes and associated articles
following their use.

3) Infectious wastes, defined as:

a) Laboratory and surgical operating room wastes except as exclude@ in
{(B) (2) below.

b) Wastes from outpatient areas and emergency rooms similar to those
included in (a) above.

c) Solid wastes generated in the rooms of patients who are not isolated
because of a suspected or diagnosed communicable disease.

B) Shall not discharge to the sewer by any means:

1) Equipment, instruments, utensils an@ other materials of a disposable
nature that may harbor or transmit pathogenic organisms and that are used
in the rooms of patients having a suspected or diagnosed communicable
disease which by the nature of the disease is required to be isolated.

2) Recognizable portions of the human anatomy.

3) Wastes excluded by other provisions of these Rules and Regulations
except as specifically permitted in {A) above.—--

4) All solid wastes not included in (A) above.

Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Health
Officer of San Mateo to define wastes as being infectious and, with the concurrence
of the City, to require that they not be discharged to the sewer.

SECTION 2.06 Limitations on Wastewater Strength. No person shall discharge waste-

ee eee

water containing in excess of:

O.1 mg/l arsenic

0.2 mg/l cadmium

2.0 mg/l copper

1.0 mg/l cyanide

1.0 mg/l lead

0.01 mg/l mercury

1.0 mg/l nickel

0.2 mg/l silver

0.5 mg/l total chromium
3.0 mg/l zinc

The City shall lower the concentration limitations for the above constituents if it
is evident that the wastewater from any one or number of dischargers is causing the
effluent from the Water Quality Control Plant to exceed the limits set forth in the
City's NPDES permit.

275 of 891


--- page 276 ---
(SECTION 2.07 Pretreatment of Industrial Wastewaters. An industrial wastewater pre-
treatment system or device may be required by the City to treat industrial flows
prior to discharge to the’ sewer when it is necessary to restrict or prevent the dis-
charge to the sewer of certain waste constituents, to distribute more equally over a
longer time period any peak discharges of industrial wastewaters or to accomplish any
pretreatment result required by the City. All pretreatment systems or devices shall
be approved by the City but such approval shall not absolve the industrial discharg-
er of the responsibility of meeting any industrial effluent limitation required by
the City. In special cases, the City may require construction of sewer lines by the
discharger to convey certain industrial wastes to a specific City trunk sewer. All
pretreatment systems judged by the City to require engineering design shall have
plans prepared and signed by an engineer of suitable discipline licensed in the State
of California.

Approval of plans and specifications of pretreatment facilities pursuant to this sec-
tion shall not relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such pretreat
facilities as necessary to produce effluent therefrom complying with all pertinent
provisions of this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or any
other requirements of law. Any proposed cessation of use, or alteration, modifica-~
tion or other change to approved pretreatment facilities or any portion thereof, or
any change in method of operation thereof, shall be reported to the City prior to
commencement thereof, and shall be subject to the approval of the City. Such approv-
al may be withheld, granted, or granted subject to such terms, conditions or require-
ments as the City may reasonably require in order to ensure compliance with the pro-~
visions of this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.

Normally a gravity separation interceptor, equalizing tank, neutralization chamber
and control manhole will be required respectively to remove prohibited settleable
and floatable solids, to equalize wastewater streams varying greatly in quantity
and/or quality, to neutralize low or high pH flows and to facilitate inspection,
flow measurement and sampling. Floor drains from commercial or manufacturing build-
ings, warehouses, or multi-use structures shall not discharge directly to the sewer,
but shall first discharge to a gravity separation interceptor.

SECTION 2.08 Discharees from Portable Sanitation Facility. No person shall dis-
charge or cause to be discharged directly or indirectly to a public sewer any
wastes originating from recreational vehicles, boats, campers, mobile homes, trail-
ers, portable toilets, chemical toilets, or any temporary sanitation facility ex-
cept as designated by the City Engineer.

The City shall designate the location, time, quantity and quality of discharge of
wastes originating from portable sanitation facilities.

‘

276 of 891


--- page 277 ---
ARTICLE III

DISCHARGE REPORT, WACTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS,

DISCHARGE REPOR?, his

AND ADMINISTRATION

SECTION 3.01 Discharge Reports. The City may require that any person discharging

or proposing to discharge wastewater into a community sewer file a periodic Discharge
Report. The Discharge Report may include, but not be limited to, nature of process,
volume, rates of flow, mass emission rate, production quantities, hours of operations,
number and classification of employees, or other information which relates to the
generation of waste including wastewater discharge. Such reports may also include
the chemical constituents and quantity of liguid or gaseous materials stored on

site even though they are not normally discharged. In addition to Discharge Reports,
the City may require information in the form of Wastewater Discharge Permit applica-
tions and self-monitoring reports.

SECTION 3.02 Permit for Industrial Wastewater Discharge. No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged any industrial wastewaters directly or indirectly to sewage
facilities owned by the City without first obtaining a City permit for industrial
wastewater discharge.

The permit for industrial wastewater discharge may require pretreatment of industrial
wastewaters before discharge, restriction of peak flow discharges, discharge of
certain wastewaters only to specified sewers, relocation of point of discharge, pro-
hibition of certain wastewater components, restriction of discharge to certain hours
of the day, payment of additional charges to defray increased cost to the City created
by the wastewater discharge and such other conditions as may be required to effectuate
the purpose of these Rules and Regulations.

No person shall discharge industrial wastewaters in excess of the quantity or quality
limitations set by the Permit for Industrial Wastewater Discharge. Any person
desiring to discharge wastewaters or use facilities which are not in conformance with
the Industrial Wastewater Permit should apply to the City for an amended Permit.

State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they
are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this ordi-
nance.

Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particu-
ler industrial subcategory, the federal standards for a particular industrial sub-
catecory, if more stringent than limitations imposed under this ordinance for sources
in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this

ordinance. The City Engineer shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 CFR Section 403.12.

SECTION 3.035 Permit Conditions.
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this
ordinance ané all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established

by the City. Permits may contain the following:

a) The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the wastewater
to be Gischarged to a community sewer;

b) Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics.

¢) Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or requirements for
-$-

277 of 891


--- page 278 ---
flow regulations ac equalization.

&) Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities;

e) Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling locations,
frequency ‘of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and reporting
schedule;

£) Compliance schedules.
g) Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports.

h) Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to waste-
water discharge as specified by the City, and affording City access thereto;

i) Requirement for notification of the City for any new introduction of waste-
water constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.

3) Requirements for notification of slug discharges.

k) The permits duration shall be for a specified time period. The terms and
conditions of the Permit may be subject to modification by the City during
the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified are
modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in his permit at least 30 Gays prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include @
reasonable time schedule for compliance.

SECTION 3.03 Permit Application. |

Users seeking an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit shall complete and file
with the City, an application in the form prescribed by the City, and accompanied
by the applicable fees. The applicant may be required to submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:

a) Name and address of applicant;

b) Volume of wastewater to be discharged;

c) Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not limited to
those mentioned in Article II as determined by a laboratory approved by the City.

dad) Time and duration of discharge;

e) Average and 30-minute minute peak wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonable variations if any; s

£) Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plubming plans and details to show
all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.

~10-

278 of 891


--- page 279 ---
._ g) Description of é activities, facilities and pl = process on the premises
including types of materials which are or could be discharged;

h) Each product produced by type, amour-., and rate of production;
i) Number and type of employees, and hours of work;

3) Any other information as may be Geemed by the City to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application.

SECTION 3.04 Transfer oF a Permit.

Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A Wastewater Discharge Permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new Or changed operation.

SECTION 3.045 Compliance Report

Within 90 deys following the date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the introduction
of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and require-
ments shall submit to the City a report indicating the nature and concentration of

all pollutants in the discharge from the regulate® process which are limited by
pretreatment standerds and requirements and the average und maximum daily flow for
these process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
Standards or requirements are being met on a consistent_basis and, if mot, what measures
are being taken to bring the user into full compliance with ali applicable pretreatment
standards or reauirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representa-~
tive of the industrial user, and certified to by a qualified professional.

SECTION 3.046 Periodic Compliamce Report
1. Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such
pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new spurce, after commencement of the
discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the City during the months of June and
cember, unless recuired more fremuently by the City, a report indicating the nature
ané concentration, ef pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such pretreat-
ment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record cf all daily fiows
which during the reporting period exceeded the average Gaily flow.

2. The City may impose mass limitations on users which are using dilution to meet
applicable pretrea=ment standards or requirements, or in other cases where the
imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the compliance report
shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the users
effluent. These zeports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, incluéing the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass
where requested by the City, of pollutants contained therein which are limited by the
applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in
the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis and sampling shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the City.

= T<

279 of 891


--- page 280 ---
SECTION 3.05 Administ: -ion.

Except as otherwise provided hereir, the City s.iall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of these rules and regulations. Any powers granted to the
City may be delegated by the City to persons acting in the beneficial interest of,
or employ, of the City.

SECTION 3.06 Monitoring Facilities.

The City shall require to be provided and operated at the user's own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the
building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises, but the City may, when such a location
would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be
obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.

There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling,
and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user.

Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the City's requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be
completed within 90 days following written notification by the City.

SECTION 3.07 Inspection and Sampling.

Tne City shall inspect the facilities of any User to ascertain whether the purpose

of this Ordinance is being met and all requirements are being complied with. Persons
or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the
City or their representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination or in the
performance of any of their duties. The City, Approval Authority and (where the
NPDES State is the Approval Authority) the EPA shall have the right to set up on the
User's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, com-
pliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a User has security measures in
‘€orce which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into

their premises, the User shall make necessary arrangements with their security

guards so that upon presentation of suitable id@entification, personnel from the

City, Approval Authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for

the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.

SECTION 3.08 Pretreatment.

Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with this
Ordinance and shall achieve compliance with all Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards within the time limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment
Regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable
to the City shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the User's expense.
tailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall

construction of the facility. The review cf such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the User from the responsibility of modifying the facility

ale

280 of 891


--- page 281 ---
as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the City under the provisions cf
‘this Ordinance. Any subseguent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the City prior to the User's
initiation of the changes.

All records relating to compliance with Pretreatment Standards shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request.

SECTION 3.09 Confidential Information.

Information and data on a User obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the User specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the City that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the User.

When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this Ordinance, une National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, State Disposal System Permit and/or

the Pretreatment Programs; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall

be availablefor use by the State or any State Agency’ in judicial review of enforcement
proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information.

Information accepted by the City as confidential shall.not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the City until and unless a ten-
Gay notification is given to the User.

SECTION 3.1 - Fees.

3.15 Purpose.

It is the purpose of this sect-on to provide for the recovery of costs from users
of the City's Wastewater Disposal System for the implementation of the Program
established herein. The epplicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the City's
schedule of charges and fees which is adopted by resolution, and is subject to
periodic change to reflect changes in cost of operating the program.

3.20 Charges and Fees.

The City may adopt charges and fees which may include:

a) Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the City's
Pretreatment Program;

b) Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
¢) Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
a) Fees for permit applications;

e) Fees for filing appeals;

281 of 891


--- page 282 ---
£)

g)

Fees for consistent removal (by the City) of pollutants otherwise subject to
federal pretreatment standards.

Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements contained
herein; these fees relate solely to the matters covered by this ordinance and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the City. ;

Pele

282 of 891


--- page 283 ---
ARTICLE IV

ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 4.01 Accidental Discharges.

SECTION 4.01.1 Notification of Discharge. Dischargers shall notify the City
immediately upon accidentally discharging wastes in violation of these Rules
and Regulations to enable countermeasures to be taken by the City to minimize
damage to the community sewer, treatment facility, treatment processes and the
receiving waters.

This notification shall be followed within 15 days of the date of occurrence
by a detailed written statement describing the causes of the accidental dis-
charge and the measures being taken to prevent future occurrence.

Such notification will not relieve dischargers of liability for any expense,
loss or Gamage to the sewer system, treatment plant, or treatment process, or
for any fines imposed on the City on account thereof under Section 13250 of the
California Water Code or for violations of Section 5650 of the California Fish
and Game Code.

SECTION 4.01.2 Notices to Employees. in orger that employees of dischargers
be informed of City requirements, dischargers shall make available to their em-
ployees copies of these Rules and Regulations together with such other waste~-
water information and notices which may be furnished by the City, from time to
time, directed toward more effective water pollution control. A notice shall
be furnished and permanently posted on the discharcer's bulletin board advising
employees who to call in case of an accidental discharge in violation of Rules
and Regulations.

SECTION 4.01.3 Preventive Measures. Any @irect or indirect connection or entry
point for Geleterious wastes to the discharger's plumbing or drainage system
should be eliminated. Where such action is impractical or unreasonable, the
user should appropriately label such entry points to warn against discharge of
such wastes in violation of these Rules and Regulations.

SECTION 4.02 Enforcement. The City may suspend a permit for industrial waste-
water Gischarae when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the environment, to the
City's sewerage system, causes interference to the City's Water Quality Control
Plant or causes the City to violate any condition of its NPDES Permit.

Any discharger notified of a suspension of his industrial wastewater permit shall
imme@iately cease and desist the discharge of all industrial wastewater to the
sewerage system. In the event of a failure of the discharger to comply voluntar-
ily with the suspension, the City shall take such steps as deemed necessary, in-
cluding immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize dam-
age to the City's Water Quality Control Plant system or endangerment to any
individuals.

The City shall reinstate the permit for industrial wastewater aischarge upon procs
of the elimination of the non-complying discharger. A detailed written statement

=15-

283 of 891


--- page 284 ---
submitted by the User describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the City
within 15 @ays of the date of the occurrence.

SECTION 4.03 Revocation of Permit. Any User who violates the following con-
ditions of this Ordinance or applicable state and federal regulations is subject
to having his permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of Section 4 of
this Ordinance:

a) Failure of a User to factually repo-t the wastewater constituents and char-
acteristics of his discharge;

b) Failure of the User to report significant changes in operations or waste-
water constituents and characteristics;

¢) Refusal of reasonable access to the User's premises for the purpose of in-
spection or monitoring; or, ,

a) Vdiolation of conditions of the permit.

SECTION 4.04 Notification of Violation. Whenever the City finds that any User
has violated or is violating this Oréinance, wastewater contribution permit, or
any prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the City may serve
upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within
30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction there-
of shall be submitted to the City by the User.

SECTION 4.05 Show Cause Hearing.

4.05.1 The City may order any User. who causes or allows an unauthorized dis-
charge to enter the Water Quality Control Plant to show cause before the City
Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice

shall be served on the User specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by the City Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action

is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the User to show
cause before the City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered

or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least (ten) days before the hear-
ing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.

4.05.2 The City Council may itself conduct the hearing and take the evidence,

ox may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the (assigned
department) to:

a) Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence rele-
vant to any matter involved in such hearings.

b) Take the evidence;

c) Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and
other evidence, together with recommendations to the City Council for action
thereon

>

05.3 At any hearing held pursuant to this Ordinance, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will

<16~

284 of 891


--- page 285 ---
‘be made available to any member of the public or any pucty to the hearing upon
‘ payment of the usual charges thereof.

4.05.4 after the City Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order
to the User responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facil-~
ities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed on exis-
ting treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may _
be issued.

SECTION 4.06 Legal Action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes
or other wastes into the City's wastewater disposal system contrary to the pro-
visions of this Ordinance, Federal or State Pretreatment Requirements, or any
order of the City, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate court.

SECTION 4.07 Submission of Time Schedule. When the City finds that a discharge
of wastewater has been taking place, in violation of prohibitions or limitations
prescribed in these Rules and Regulations, or wastewater source control require-
ments, effluent limitations or pretreatment standards, or the provisions of a
Wastewater Discharge Permit, the City may require the User to submit for approv-
al a detailed time schedule of specific actions which the User shall take in
order to prevent or correct a violation of requirements.

SECTION 4.08 Penalty for Violation. Any person violating any provision of these
Rules and Reguiations, including 3 the failure to pay any fees or charges imposed

hereby, or any condition of a permit or plan approval issued pursuant thereto,

is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500, and/or

imprisonment not to exceed 6 months or both. :

SECTION 4.09 Inspectors. Adequate identification will be provided by the City
for all inspectors and other authorized personnel, and these persons shall iden-
tify themselves when entering any property for inspection purposes or when in-
specting the work of any contractor.

Inspection of every facility that is involved directiy or indirectly with the
ischarge of wastewater in the City's sewerage systems may be made by the City
as deemed necessary. These facilities shall include but not be limiteé to
sewers; sewage pumping plants; pollution control plants; all industrial pro-
cesses; industrial wastewater generation conveyance and pretreatment facilities,
devices and connection sewers; and all similar sewerage facilities. Inspections
may be made to determine that such facilities are maintained and operated prop-
exly and are adequate to meet the provisions of these Rules and Regulations.

Ld

Recess to all of the above facilities or to other facilities directly or in-
Girectly connected to the City's sewerage systems shall be given to authorized
personnel of the City at all reasonable times including those occasioned by
emergency conditions. Any permanent or temporary obstruction to easy access to
the sewerage facility to be inspected shall promptly be removed by the facility
user or owner at the written or verbal request of the City and shall not be re-
placed.

No person shall interfere with, delay, resist or ref fuse entrance to an author-
ized city's inspector attempting to inspect any wastewater generation, conven-
ance or treatment facility connected directly or indirectly to the city's sewerage
systems.

PG ey

285 of 891


--- page 286 ---
ARTICLE V

INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER THEATMENT SURUHARGE

SECTION 5.01 Surcharge Formula. An industrial wasterwater treatment

surcharge shall be paid to the City annually, within six months of the end of
the fiscal year in which charges accrue, by those industrial wastewater
discharges whose contribution of flow, chemical oxygen demand, suspended
solids, or peak flow create costs in excess of their annual sewer service
charge. The treatment surcharge shall be based on the City's sanitary sewerage
system's total maintenance, operation and capital expenditures for providing
industrial wastewater collection, treatment and disposal services in the fiscal
year for which charges are assessed as described in section 5.02.

The annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge shall be computed by the
following forma:

Surcharge = a (V) +b (COD) + c(SS) + aM(P) - Sewer Service Charge
Where:

Surcharge = Net annual industrial wastewater treatment surcharge in dollars.
No refund will be made if a negative number results.

v = Total annual volume of flow, in millions of gallons.

coD = Total annual discharge of chemical oxygen demand, in thousands of
pounds. - ,

ss = Total annual discharge of suspended solids in thousands of pounds.

: = Peak discharge rate over a 30-minute period, occurring er the

hours of 8:00 asm. and 10:00 p.m, and determined by averaging a
maximum of 10 substantiated peak flow rate measurements of the

accrual year in gellons per minute. Values of "P" less than 10
gallons per minute shall be considered equal to zero.

A = Average discharge rate, determined by dividing "V" by the total
annual hours of operation or working time of the indéustrial
Gischarger, in gellons per minute (see M).

a,b,¢,d = Unit charge rates adopted annually by the City of San Mateo based
upon the projected annual costs for wastewater collection,
treatment, and disposal, in dollars per unit as described in
Section 5.02.

bt = & miltiplying factor accounting for increased city costs due to the
ratios of industrial discharger peak - average flow rates (P/A);
Factor "MN" is obtained from Figure 1. (M = 2.50 log P/A)

Sewer Service Charge = The annual sewer service charge paid to the City during
the accrual year.

SECTION 5.02. Establishment of unit charge rates for industrial wastewater
treatment surcharge.

Exhibit A

286 of 891


--- page 287 ---
a

ae

*

et tt ta

me" ohe charge rates “at, 7", "eo" end "a" in the industric’. wastewater treatment
» surcharge shall be este uashed annually by the procedi Gescribed hercin.

Appropriete unit charge rate parameters for flow, COD and suspended sclids ~
respectively designated "Q" (in dollars per million gallons), "b" (in dollars
per 1000 pounds of cop) and "ce" (in dollars per 1000 pounds of suspended
solids) - shall be determined by the following method: .
(A) The total capital outlay for construction of sewerage facilities including
debt principal and interest over the next fiscal year less anticipated grant ,
funds shall be estimated and distributed among the three parameters in
accordance with the City's determination of the percentage of the total
existing capital facilities of the sewerage system predominantly related to
each parameter. —

(3B) The total operation and maintenance costs of the system shall be estimated
for the-next fiscal year and distributed among the three parameters in
accordence with City's determination as to which charges are predominantly

related to.each parameter.

(c) The sum of the capital costs and operation and maintenance costs
determined for each parameter in (A) and (B) above shall be divided by the
projected one year total volume of wastewater and weight of COD and suspended
solids to be treated by the sewerage system in order to obtein the unit charge

rates "a", "b", "ce", forthe system.

The unit charge rate related to peak flow rate and designated "d" (in dollars
per gallon per minute .of peak flow) shall be determined by the following

' method;

(4) The total non-depreciated value of the bistoriec capital investment in the
serving (Collection and Treatment) system shall be divided by the total peak
hydraulic. capacity of-the treatment facilities to determine a unit cost per
million_gallons.per day of peak flow capacity.

(3B) The unit cost determined in (A) above shall be anortized over thirty (30)

years at seven (7) percent interest and converted to e gallon per minute basis
to obain the unit charge rete “d".

287 of 891


--- page 288 ---
OU0SS
)) ORIGINAL

AMENDMENT TO SANITARY SEWAGE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH,
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CRYSTAL SPRINGS
COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT, AND
THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

This amendment of the Sanitary Sewage Agreement entered into on July 18,
1989, by and among the TOWN of HILLSBOROUGH, a municipal corporation in the
County of San Mateo, State of California, hereinafter called “Town”, the CITY OF SAN
MATEO, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “City”; the CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT, a sanitation district in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “District”; and the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision
of the State of California, hereinafter called “County”, and is made effective as of
September 28, 2010, and is based on the following:

RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into agreements dating back to
1955 which set forth their arrangements and relationships regarding the discharge,
pumping, transmission, and treatment of sewage; and

WHEREAS, the parties’ most recent agreement is the Sanitary Sewage
Agreement made and entered into July 18, 1989 (the “1989 Agreement’); and

WHEREAS, the parties are subject to the Cease and Desist Order R2-2009-0020
(the “CDO”) issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, which
requires that the parties undertake certain actions, studies, and projects to improve the
performance and capacity of the sewer facilities that are subject to the 1989 Agreement;
and

WHEREAS, the parties now wish to amend the provisions of the 1989 Agreement
as they relate to the parties’ obligations with respect to the allocation of costs between the
parties for the limited purpose of allocating among themselves the costs of the
environmental study and design of the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer
Improvements required by the CDO and to enter into this amendment to establish those
obligations; and

WHEREAS, the parties anticipate amending the 1989 Agreement or executing a
new, comprehensive agreement prior to beginning construction of the Crystal Springs/E]
Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements; and

WHEREAS, until a new or further amended agreement is adopted, the parties
must allocate costs associated with the environmental study and design related to the
Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements so that these improvements can be
completed within the time allotted by the CDO;

Page 1 of 1

Qi:cityatty\Agreements\PARTNERS Cost Sharing Agreement FINAL.DOC

288 of 891


--- page 289 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:

Section 1. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements

The CDO Provision I.A. requires that by September 11, 2015, the Crystal Springs/E]
Cerrito Trunk Sewer improvements be completed. The scope of the required work is one
continuous segment of sewer trunk, approximately four miles long, at an estimated total
project cost of $21,000,000. The upstream limit of work is the intersection of Crystal
Springs Road and Crystal Springs Terrace in the Town of Hillsborough, and the down
stream terminus is at the intersection of Sunnybrae Boulevard and Birch Avenue in the
City of San Mateo.

The Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements project consists of two
segments:

a. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Phase II (the “Phase I Project”).
The Town of Hillsborough serves as the lead agency for the Phase II Project.
This project, which is approximately two miles in length, is currently at 95%
design. The Town of Hillsborough has arranged for funding of the project
through the State Revolving Fund (SRF) Loan Program. Environmental
consultants were engaged on November 9, 2009 to conduct cultural resources
investigations and to update the 2002 environmental study previously
prepared for the Town for both this segment and an upstream sewer segment
(Phase I), which is now complete. The estimated cost of this environmental
work and the design work is approximately $400,000.

b. El Cerrito Relief Line Project (the “Relief Line Project”). The City of San
Mateo serves as the lead agency for the Relief Line Project, which is currently
in preliminary design. This trunk sewer, also approximately two miles in
length, will serve as a bypass to an existing sewer trunk. The project will be
submitted for funding by the State Revolving Fund Loan Program by the City
of San Mateo. A Request for Proposals (RFP) for an environmental
consultant was issued in October 2009. A Request for Proposals (RFP) for
design of the Relief Line Project was issued in July 2010. The estimated cost
of environmental study and design for the Relief Line Project is
approximately $1,000,000.

Section 2. Financial Participation

The City, County, District and Town are each proportionally financially responsible for
the installation and replacement of sewer conveyance systems to the extent of the
proportional share of the Peak Wet Weather Flow (PWWEF) generated from each
agency's sewage area.

Page 2 of |

Q:\cityatty\Agreements\PARTNERS Cost Sharing Agreement FINAL.DOC

289 of 891


--- page 290 ---
For the purpose of allocating each party’s proportional share of the environmental study
and design costs related to the CDO-mandated capital improvements (i.e., the Phase II
Project and the Relief Line Project), the PWWF estimated in the May 2010 Sewer System
Flow Monitoring and Hydraulic Modeling study authored by RMC Water and
Environment, will be used. This study was jointly commissioned by the City, County,
District and Town. Based on the conclusions in the RMC study, each party’s share of the
environmental and design consulting costs described in this amendment, based on the
PWWE, are as follows:

City: 6%
County: 6%
District: 37%
Town: 51%
Section 3. Financial Commitments

a. The Phase II Project.

Town has advanced, or will advance the costs of the environmental and design work on
the Phase I] Project and shall invoice each party based on actual project costs for that
party’s proportional share, as set forth in Section 2 above. All invoices are due and
payable within 30 days. Any invoice not paid within 60 days shall bear interest at the
rate of 10% per annum.

b. The Relief Line Project

Funding for the environmental study and design work for the Relief Line Project shall be
provided as follows:

Prior to the City’s execution of any contract with an environmental and/or design
consultant, each party shall deposit with the City its respective proportional share of the
estimated cost of the phase of the environmental study and/or design work (e.g. 35%
design ) to be performed by the consultant. Such deposit shall be made within 10
business days of request for funding sent by the City to each party. Such funding
requests shall include an itemized description of the project costs for which the request is
made, along with the calculation showing each party’s proportional share of the project
costs for the environmental study and/or design for which the request is made. In
calculating each party’s share of the consultant’s work that must be deposited, the City
shall apply the percentages stated in section 2 above. Payments to the consultant shall be
made by City out of the funds deposited by the parties. It is anticipated that the City will
proceed with the environmental work and design work to accomplish 35% complete
design immediately upon execution of this amendment and deposit by the parties of the
funds associated with this work. The environmental and 35% complete design work are
estimated to cost $90,000 and $457,000, respectively. If, after completion of the work
performed by any consultant, there remain funds on deposit for such work, the City shall
return the funds to the parties based on their respective proportional shares of funds
deposited with the City. If the funds on deposit are exhausted and design and/or

Page 3 of 1

Qi:icityatty\Agreements\PARTNERS Cost Sharing Agreement FINAL.DOC

290 of 891


--- page 291 ---
environmental review work for the Relief Line Project remains to be done, the City shall
invoice each party according to the proportional share of liability for the project’s
environmental study and design costs, as set forth in Section 2. Any such invoice not
paid within 60 days shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum.

Section 4. Limitations

This amendment shall not affect the allocation of costs for treatment, capital
improvements, or other services under the 1989 Agreement. The parties shall continue to
share costs for those services in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 1989
Agreement until it is amended or replaced.

Except as modified herein, the terms of the 1989 Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect.

ATTEST: CITY OF SAN MATEO
in Gee,
Lee
ayor
APPROVE AS TO FORM:
a , _
Shawn M. Mason
City Attorney
ATTEST: COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

Richard S. Gordon
President, Board of Supervisors

Certificate of Delivery
(Government Code Section 25103)

i certify that a copy of the original document filed ie
the Oifice of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors ¢
, . San Mateo County has been delivered to the
MBB ELIS fy 7 President of the Board of Supervisors.

County Counsel | Ly oe A fUhpey re ; fis
Sbuty Clark of the Board of Supervisors

Page 4 of |

Q:cityatty\Agreements\PARTNERS Cost Sharing Agreement FINAL.DOC

291 of 891


--- page 292 ---
ATTEST: CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY
SANITATION DISTRICT

Richard S. Gordon
President, Board of Supervisors,
Ex-Officio Governing Board of the District

a

Clerk of the District

. Certificate of Delivery
APPROVED AS TO FORM: (Government Code Section 25103}

\ certify that a copy of the original document filed in
the Office of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors ¢
— San Mateo County has been delivered to the

= a President of the Board of Supervisors.
DoD WRB, DEP TY fur. ma, .
District Counsel wicte+ are pene? [raed

mosserarnmesovertanin
irennsinah

Doe ALAL, ‘ LIP.
‘®buty Clork of the Board of Supervisors

Laetarnssninimns

ATTEST: TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH
Pia

C/
tHe

iam

City Clerk City Mahager

é

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Town Attorney

Page 5 of 1

Qicityatty\Agreements\PARTNERS Cost Sharing Agreement FINAL.DOC

292 of 891


--- page 293 ---
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

ACTING AS THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
THE CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT

* * * * * *

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD TO EXECUTE AN
AMENDMENT TO THE SANITARY SEWAGE AGREEMENT AMONG THE
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH, CITY OF SAN MATEO,

CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT, AND THE
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY AND DESIGN
COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPROVEMENTS TO THE CRYSTAL
SPRINGS/EL CERRITO TRUNK SEWER TRANSMISSION LINES.

eR epee
RESOLVED, by the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo, State of

California, acting as the County of San Mateo and the governing board of the Crystal

Springs County Sanitation District, that

WHEREAS, the Town of Hillsborough (Hillsborough), City of San Mateo (San
Mateo), Crystal Springs County Sanitation District (District), and the County of San
Mateo (County) entered into a sanitary sewage agreement dated July 18, 1989 (1989
Agreement), which sets forth the parties’ respective rights and obligations with respect
to the use of sewage conveyance and treatment facilities jointly used by Hillsborough,

San Mateo, District, and County; and

WHEREAS, the 1989 Agreement specifies that expenses related to repairs and
upgrades to jointly used facilities will be proportionally shared based on each party's

contribution of flow to the jointly used sewage conveyance and treatment facilities: and

293 of 891


--- page 294 ---
WHEREAS, this Board has reviewed and considered said Amendment and the
recommendation of the Director of Public Works and concurs with the Director's

recommendation.

NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED AND ORDERED as follows:

The President of this Board of Supervisors be, and is hereby, authorized and directed to
execute said Amendment for and on behalf of both the District and the County and

signature of the Clerk of this Board shall attest thereto.

* *e & & kK &

294 of 891


--- page 295 ---
Regularly passed and adopted this 28" day of September, 2010.

AYES and in favor of said resolution:

Supervisors:

NOES and against said resolution:

Supervisors:

Absent Supervisors:

MARK CHURCH
CAROLE GROOM
RICHARD S. GORDON
ROSE JACOBS GIBSON

ADRIENNE J. TISSIER

NONE

NONE

Richard S. Gordon

President, Board of Supervisors

County of San Mateo
State of California

Certificate of Delivery

/ certify that a copy of the original resolution filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors of San Mateo County has been delivered to the President of the Board of Supervisors.

Yuri. HE Crom _
| Martie L. Peterson, Deputy

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

295 of 891


--- page 296 ---
CITY SAN MATEO

SECOND AMENDMENT TO SANITARY SEWAGE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH,
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CRYSTAL SPRINGS
COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT, AND
THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

This Second Amendment to the Sanitary Sewage Agreement entered into as of
July 18, 1989 by and among the TOWN of HILLSBOROUGH, a municipal corporation
in the County of San Mateo, State of California, hereinafter called “Town”, the CITY OF
SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “City”; the CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT, a sanitation district in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “District”; and the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision

of the State of California, hereinafter called “County” is made effective as of

hp cil 235, 2013 , 2013 and is based on the following:

RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into agreements dating back to
1955 which set forth their arrangements and relationships regarding the discharge,

pumping, transmission, and treatment of sewage; and

WHEREAS, the parties’ most recent agreement is the Sanitary Sewage
Agreement made and entered into July 18, 1989 (the “1989 Agreement”); and

WHEREAS, the parties are subject to the Cease and Desist Order R2-2009-0020
(the “CDO”) issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, which
requires that the parties undertake certain actions, studies, and projects to improve the
performance and capacity of the sewer facilities that are subject to the 1989 Agreement;

and,

ORIGINAL

296 of 891


--- page 297 ---
WHEREAS, the parties previously amended the 1989 Agreement to provide for
the allocation of costs for the environmental review and preliminary design work for the
Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements required by the CDO, as further
described below (the “Improvements”), and agreed to allocate these costs on the basis of

peak wet weather flows (the “2010 Amendment”); and,

WHEREAS, one or more of the parties intend to fund their share of the cost of
constructing the Improvements with loan proceeds from the Clean Water State Revolving
Fund Program administered by the State Water Resources Control Board, and, as a result,
additional environmental review (referred to below as “CEQA Plus” environmental

review) will be required; and,

WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the provisions of the 1989
Agreement to provide for the allocation of costs for completing the final design and
“CEQA Plus” environmental review of the Improvements and reimbursing staff costs,
and to establish the roles and responsibilities of the parties for completion of the final
design and environmental review, and to agree to allocate these costs on the basis of peak

wet weather flows, and to enter into this amendment to establish those obligations; and,

_ WHEREAS, certain elements incorporated into the Improvements may provide
greater benefit to certain parties of the agreement and each party agrees to pay the full

construction costs of elements which are to their sole benefit; and;

WHEREAS, the parties anticipate amending the 1989 Agreement or executing a
new, comprehensive agreement prior to beginning construction of the Crystal Springs/E]

Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvemoentgjand, soe oe es

WHEREAS, until a new or further amended agreement is adopted, the parties
must allocate costs associated with the final design and “CEQA Plus” environmental
review related to Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements so that these

improvements can be completed within the time allotted by the CDO;

Page 2 of 11

297 of 891


--- page 298 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:

Section 1. Definitions
The following definitions apply to terms used in this amendment:

“CEQA Plus”- means the scope and process of environmental review required-bythe = ---——
State Water Resources Control Board application process for State Revolving Fund

Loans.
“days” — means calendar days unless otherwise stated

“direct project costs” — includes all costs incurred by the lead agency specifically for the
design and environmental work necessary to implement the project Improvements,
including professional consultant costs, and staff costs of the lead agency. In addition,
direct project costs includes any liability the lead agency incurs in prosecuting the project
work and any claims adjusting, claims investigation, and costs incurred in defending
claims (including reasonable attorney fees) brought by any contractor or third party for

damages arising out of the prosecution of the project work.

“lead agency” — the agency responsible for performance of tasks required to implement
and complete the design and environmental review of Improvements, or a portion thereof,
on behalf of all parties, including tasks such as obtaining and overseeing professional

services.

“partner agency” — those agencies not serving as lead agency

“staff costs” — the actual costs incurred by lead agency staff for hours spent in direct
participation in activities to implement the planning, design, and environmental review of

the Improvements.

Page 3 of 11

298 of 891


--- page 299 ---
Section 2. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements

The CDO Provision I.A. requires that the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer
Improvements (the “Improvements”) be completed by September 11, 2015. The scope of
the required work is one continuous segment of sewer trunk, approximately four miles
long, with an estimated total project cost of $27,000,000 including design, environmental
-——-—review;-construction and-staff costs:-The-upstream-limit-of work-isthe-intersection-of
Crystal Springs Road and Woodridge Road in the Town of Hillsborough, and the
downstream terminus is at the intersection of Sunnybrae Boulevard and South Idaho

Street in the City of San Mateo.

The Improvements consist of two segments:
a. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Phase II (the “Phase I Project”).
The upstream limit of the Phase II Project is located at the intersection of
Crystal Springs Road and Woodridge Road in the Town of Hillsborough, and
the downstream limit is the point of connection with the City of San Mateo’s
El Cerrito Meter at the City of San Mateo city limits near the intersection of
El Cerrito Avenue and Gramercy Drive. The Phase II Project is
approximately two miles in length, and will increase the capacity of the sewer
trunk lines located in Crystal Springs Road and El Cerrito Avenue. The
estimated cost of the Phase II project is $12,000,000 including design,

environmental review, construction and staff costs.

b. El Cerrito Relief Line Project (the “Relief Line Project”). The upstream limit

- of-the-Relief-Line Project-is_the_point-of connection-of_the-Phase_Il_project

with the City of San Mateo’s El Cerrito Meter at the City of San Mateo city
limits near the intersection of El Cerrito Avenue and Gramercy Drive, and the
downstream limit is located at the intersection of Sunnybrae Boulevard and.
South Idaho Street in the City of San Mateo. The Relief Line Project is

approximately two miles in length and involves altering the current sewer

Page 4 of 11

299 of 891


--- page 300 ---
system to accept additional flows from the Crystal Springs / El Cerrito trunk

line during wet weather. The estimated cost of the Relief Line project is

$15,000,000 including design, environmental review, construction and staff

costs

Section 3. Financial Participation

A. All financial participation requirements established in the 2010 Amendment shall

remain in force and are not modified by this Amendment.

B. The City, County, District and Town shall each be responsible for the independent
funding of its portion of the direct project costs. In the event of an annexation, merger, or
other acquisition, the successor entity shall be responsible for the amounts owed by the
entity that is acquired by annexation, merger, or other means and the percentage owed by
the acquired entity under Section 3C shall be added to the percentage owed by the

acquiring entity following acquisition.

os The portion of the direct project costs to be paid by each agency to complete final
design and environmental review for the Improvements shall be determined by the

estimated Peak Wet Weather Flow (PWWF) generated from each agency’s sewage area.

The PWWF estimated in the May 2010 Sewer System Flow Monitoring and Hydraulic
Modeling study authored by RMC Water and Environment, will be used for the purpose

of allocating each party’s proportional share of the direct project costs related to the

CDO-mandated_capital improvements—(i.e.,the _Phase_II_Project-and_the-Relief Line
Project). This study was jointly commissioned by the City, County, District and Town.
Based on the conclusions in the RMC study, each party’s share of the direct project costs,
including design, environmental review, and staff costs described in this amendment,

based on the PWWE, are as follows:

Page 5 of 11

300 of 891


--- page 301 ---
City: 6%

County: 6%
District: 37%
Town: 51%

Section 4. Lead Agency

a) The Phase II Project.
The Town of Hillsborough will serve as the lead agency for completion of the design and

“CEQA Plus” environmental review of the Phase II project.

b) The Relief Line Project
The City of San Mateo will serve as the lead agency for completion of the design and

“CEQA Plus” environmental review of the Relief Line project.

Section 5. Financial Commitments

A, Each partner agency shall deposit its share of the future estimated direct project
costs with the lead agency prior to the award of professional service agreement(s) or the
performance of additional work on existing professional service agreement(s) for the
final design and CEQA or “CEQA Plus” environmental review for the Improvements.
Such deposit shall be made within 30 days of request for funding sent by the lead agency
to each party. Such funding requests shall include an itemized description of the

estimated_staffand_project-costs_for-which-the-requestis-made, along with_the-calculation

showing each party’s proportional share in accordance with the percentages stated in
Section 3 above. Failure of any partner agency to provide funding within 30 days of a
request from the lead agency will constitute a breach of this Agreement, and may result in
a cessation of work on the project. Ifa party breaches this agreement by failing to make

a required deposit within the time described herein, that party shall bear costs resulting

Page 6 of 11

301 of 891


--- page 302 ---
from the breach, including any damages resulting from the cessation of work on the

project.

B. Fund deposits and payments for costs incurred for the Improvements shall be

made directly and without offset for any other financial obligations of the parties.

_€. __ Each party shall pay the following amounts calculated in accordance with Section

3-above>

a) The Phase II Project.

Pursuant to the 1989. Master Agreement and 2010 Amendment, the Town
expended staff time and engaged engineers to prepare the design and
environmental consultants to conduct the cultural resources investigation and to
update the 2002 environmental study previously prepared for the Town for the
Phase II Project. Town has advanced the amount of approximately $1,892,116
for direct project costs incurred from July 1, 2004 to date on the Phase II Project
and shall invoice each partner agency for its respective proportional share of those
actual direct project costs within three (3) months of execution of this Second
Amendment. All invoices are due and payable within 30 days of date of issuance.
Any invoice not paid within 60 days shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per
annum. Interest on past due invoices shall begin accruing at 30 days from date of

issuance,

Completion of the final design and “CEQA Plus” environmental work for the
Phase II Project is estimated to cost an additional $93,000, including staff costs.

The-parties_shall_deposit_their_shares_of_these_direct_costs_in_accordance_with

Section 5A above.

b) The Relief Line Project
Pursuant to the 2010 Amendment, the City of San Mateo has expended staff time

and engaged engineers to design the Relief Line Project and to conduct the

Page 7 of 11

302 of 891


--- page 303 ---
environmental review. City has advanced the amount of approximately

$138,183.00 for staff costs to date on the Relief Line Project and shall invoice

each Partner Agency for its respective proportional share of those actual direct
project costs within three (3) months of execution of this Second Amendment.
All invoices are due and payable within 30 days of date of issuance. Any invoice
not paid within 60 days shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum. Interest

_ on past due invoices shall begin accruing at 30 days from date of issuance.

Prior to authorizing the consultant(s) to complete final design work and “CEQA
Plus” environmental work at an estimated cost of $762,000.00 including staff
costs, City shall invoice each party for its respective proportional share of the
estimated cost in accordance with Section 5A above. Each party shall deposit with
the City its respective proportional share of the estimated cost within 30 days of
receipt of this invoice. City shall notify each party when 80% of the estimated
cost established herein is expended and shall provide a revised estimate of costs to
complete the work. Costs are incurred and funds are considered expended at the

time the work is performed.

When the design and environmental work is completed City will calculate the
actual direct project costs incurred. If the funds collected exceed the actual direct
project costs upon completion of design and environmental work, City shall
refund the balance to the parties in accordance with the percentages in Section 3
above. If the funds collected are insufficient to cover the actual direct project
costs, City shall invoice each party for the additional costs in accordance with the
percentages in Section 3 above. Any invoice not paid within 30 days shall bear

interest-atthe-rate-of 10%.

Page 8 of 11

303 of 891


--- page 304 ---
Section 6. Survival

In the event that the 1989 Agreement is terminated or found to be unenforceable, the
provisions of this Second Amendment shall remain in effect as the funding mechanism

for the Improvements,

Section 7, Limitations

This Second Amendment shall not affect the allocation of costs for treatment, capital
improvements, or other services under the 1989 Agreement. The parties shall continue to
share costs for those services in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 1989
Agreement until it is amended or replaced. Except as modified herein, the terms of the

1989 Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

ATTEST: y CITY OF SAN MATEO

Patrice M. Olds
City Clerk

‘On e
OnaTteEo ©)

rors

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Shawn-V.Maseon.

Page 9 of 11

304 of 891


--- page 305 ---
ATTEST: COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

Clerk jof the Board

President, Board of Supervisors,

_ ._ APPROVED AS TO FORM: _ :
County Co i
ATTEST: CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY |

President, Board of Supervisors,

Ex-Officio Governing Board of the District

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Qoafe

District Counsel

ATTEST: TOWN-OF HILLSBOROUGH
ity Clerk City Manager

Page 10 of 11

305 of 891


--- page 306 ---
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

LM eke —

Town Attorney

Certificate of Delivery

I certify that a copy of the original document filed in the Office of the Clerk of the

Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County has been delivered to the President of the

Clerk of fp f Supervisors

Board of Supervisors,

Page 11 of 11

306 of 891


--- page 307 ---
307 of 891

--- page 308 ---
Aesox virion #07 F002

THIRD AMENDMENT TO SANITARY SEWAGE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH,
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CRYSTAL SPRINGS
COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICT, AND
THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

This Third Amendment to the Sanitary Sewage Agreement entered into as of July
18, 1989 by and among the TOWN of HILLSBOROUGH, a municipal corporation in the
County of San Mateo, State of California, hereinafter called “Town”, the CITY OF SAN
MATEO, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “City”; the CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY SANITATION
DISTRICT, a sanitation district in the County of San Mateo, State of California,
hereinafter called “District”; and the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision
of the State of California, hereinafter called “County” is made effective as of Ai ,

2014 and is based on the following:

RECITALS:
WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into agreements dating back to
1955 which set forth their arrangements and relationships regarding the discharge,

pumping, transmission, and treatment of sewage; and

WHEREAS, the parties’ most recent agreement is the Sanitary Sewage
Agreement made and entered into July 18, 1989 (the “1989 Agreement”); and

WHEREAS, the parties are subject to the Cease and Desist Order R2-2009-0020
(the “CDO”) issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, which
requires that the parties undertake certain actions, studies, and projects to improve the
performance and capacity of the sewer facilities that are subject to the 1989 Agreement;

and,

Page 1 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

308 of 891


--- page 309 ---
WHEREAS, the parties have executed two Amendments to the 1989 Agreement
to provide for allocation of costs for the environmental clearance and design of the
Crystal Springs/E] Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements required by the CDO, as further
described below (the “Improvements”), and agreed to allocate these costs on the basis of

peak wet weather flows; and,

WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the provisions of the 1989
Agreement to provide for the allocation of costs for construction of the Improvements
including staff costs, and to establish the roles and responsibilities of the parties for
completion of construction, and agree to allocate these costs on the basis of peak wet

weather flows, and to enter into this amendment to establish those obligations; and,
WHEREAS, certain elements incorporated into the Improvements may provide
benefit to only certain parties to the agreement and each party agrees to pay the full costs
of elements which are to their sole benefit; and,
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:
Section 1. Definitions
The following definitions apply to terms used in this amendment:
“days” — means calendar days unless otherwise stated
“direct project costs” — includes all costs incurred by the lead agency specifically to
implement and complete construction of project Improvements, including construction
contractor costs, professional consultant costs, cost of compliance with mitigation
measures, and staff costs of the lead agency. In addition, direct project costs includes any
liability the lead agency incurs in prosecuting the project work and any claims adjusting,
claims investigation, and costs incurred in defending claims (including reasonable

Page 2 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

309 of 891


--- page 310 ---
attorney fees) brought by any contractor or third party for damages arising out of the

prosecution of the project work.

“lead agency” — the agency responsible for performance of tasks required to implement
and complete construction of Improvements, or a portion thereof, on behalf of all parties,
including tasks such as obtaining and overseeing construction contractors and

professional services.

“partner agency” — those agencies not serving as lead agency

“staff costs” — the actual costs incurred by lead agency staff for hours spent in direct

participation in activities to implement the construction of the Improvements.

Section 2. Crystal Springs/E] Cerrito Trunk Sewer Improvements

The CDO Provision I.A. requires that the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer
Improvements (the “Improvements”) be completed by September 11, 2015. The scope of
the required work is one continuous segment of sewer trunk, approximately four miles
long, with an estimated total project cost of $27,000,000 including design, environmental
review, construction and staff costs. The upstream limit of work is the intersection of
Crystal Springs Road and Woodridge Road in the Town of Hillsborough, and the down
stream terminus is at the intersection of Sunnybrae Boulevard and South Idaho Street in

the City of San Mateo.

The Improvements consist of two segments:
a. Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer Phase II (the “Phase II Project”).
The upstream limit of the Phase II Project is located at the intersection of
Crystal Springs Road and Woodridge Road in the Town of Hillsborough, and
the downstream limit is the point of connection with the City of San Mateo’s

El Cerrito Meter at the City of San Mateo city limits near the intersection of

Page 3 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

310 of 891


--- page 311 ---
El Cerrito Avenue and Gramercy Drive. The Phase II Project is
approximately two miles in length, and will increase the capacity of the sewer
trunk lines located in Crystal Springs Road and El Cerrito Avenue. The
estimated cost of the Phase II project is $12,000,000 including design,

environmental review, construction, and staff costs.

b. El Cerrito Relief Line Project (the “Relief Line Project”). The upstream limit
of the Relief Line Project is the point of connection of the Phase II Project
with the City of San Mateo’s El Cerrito Meter at the City of San Mateo city
limits near the intersection of El Cerrito Avenue and Gramercy Drive, and the
downstream limit is located at the intersection of Sunnybrae Boulevard and
South Idaho Street in the City of San Mateo. The Relief Line Project is
approximately two miles in length and involves altering the current sewer
system to accept additional flows from the Crystal Springs / El Cerrito trunk
line during wet weather. The estimated cost of the Relief Line project is
$15,000,000 including design, environmental review, construction, and staff

costs.

Section 3. Financial Participation

A. All financial participation requirements established in the First and Second

Amendments shall remain in force and are not modified by this Amendment.

B. The City, County, District and Town shall each be responsible for the independent
funding of its portion of the direct project costs. In the event of an annexation, merger, or
other acquisition, the successor entity shall be responsible for the amounts owned by the
entity that is acquired by annexation, merger, or other means and the percentage owned
by the acquired entity under Section 3C shall be added to the percentage owed by the

acquiring entity following acquisition.

Page 4 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

311 of 891


--- page 312 ---
C. The portion of the direct project costs to be paid by each agency for construction
of the Improvements shall be determined by the estimated Peak Wet Weather Flow

(PWWF) generated from each agency’s sewage area.

The PWWF estimated in the May 2010 Sewer System Flow Monitoring and Hydraulic
Modeling study authored by RMC Water and Environment, will be used for the purpose
of allocating each party’s proportional share of the direct project costs related to the
CDO-mandated capital improvements (i.e., the Phase II Project and the Relief Line
Project). This study was jointly commissioned by the City, County, District and Town.
Based on the conclusions in the RMC study, each party’s share of the direct project costs,
including design, environmental review, construction and staff costs described in this

amendment, based on the PWWF, are as follows:

City: 6%
County: 6%
District: 37%
Town: 51%

Section 4. Lead Agency

a) The Phase II Project.
The Town of Hillsborough will serve as the lead agency for the construction of the Phase
II Project.

b) The Relief Line Project

The City of San Mateo will serve as the lead agency for construction of the Relief Line

Project.

Page 5 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

312 of 891


--- page 313 ---
Section 5. Financial Commitments

A, Each partner agency shall deposit its share of the estimated direct project costs
with the lead agency in accordance with Section 5.C. Such deposit shall be made within
30 days of request for funding sent by the lead agency to each party. Such funding
requests shall include an itemized description of the estimated staff and project costs for
which the request is made, along with the calculation showing each party’s proportional
share in accordance with the percentages stated in Section 3 above. Failure of any partner
agency to provide funding within 30 days of a request from the lead agency will
constitute a breach of this Agreement, ‘and may result in a cessation of work on the
project. If a party breaches this agreement by failing to make a required deposit within
the time described herein, that party shall bear costs resulting from the breach, including

any damages resulting from the cessation of work on the project.

B. Fund deposits and payments for costs incurred for the Improvements shall be

made directly and without offset for any other financial obligations of the parties.

C. Each party shall pay the following amounts calculated in accordance with Section

3 above:

a) The Phase II Project.

Prior to advertisement of a contract(s) for construction of the Phase II Project,
each partner agency shall: 1) provide written evidence to the Town confirming, to
the satisfaction of the Town, that funding for its share of the estimated total
construction phase direct project cost has been secured, and 2) deposit with the
Town an initial deposit equal to 25% of its respective proportional share of the
estimated total construction phase direct project cost. Such initial deposit shall be
calculated based on the Engineer’s Estimate of Construction Cost and associated
estimated staff and consultant support costs for the construction phase. The Town

will issue a funding request for each party’s initial deposit amount at least 30 days

Page 6 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

313 of 891


--- page 314 ---
prior to the proposed contract advertisement date. Town will not advertise the
construction contract(s) until the proportional shares of the initial construction
phase deposit amount are received from all parties. Failure of any party to
provide the additional funding deposit within 30 days of the request will
constitute a breach of this Agreement and may result in the postponement of
contract advertisement. Funds deposited pursuant to this Section 5.(C)(a) shall be
used by the Town to pay the cost of construction of the Phase II Project, except as

provided in Section 5.C.c), below.

Upon receipt from each partner agency of the initial deposit and satisfactory
evidence that funding is secured for the construction phase, the Town, as lead
agency, will take appropriate actions to advertise, bid, and award the construction
contract(s) and issue Notice to Proceed with Construction. Following issuance of
contract advertisement, Town shall invoice each Partner Agency monthly for its
respective proportional share of actual direct project costs incurred by Town
during the calendar month preceding the invoice. Any invoice not paid with 30
days shall bear interest at the rate of 3% and may result in cessation of work on

the project in accordance with Section 5.A.

The deposit amount is subject to change by the Town at any time as needed to
manage and complete the construction work without Town incurring costs in
excess of the unexpended deposit balance on hand at the time the costs are
incurred. Costs are incurred and funds are considered expended at the time the
work if performed. Town will issue a funding request to each party periodically
as needed to increase each party’s deposit amount to cover estimated expenditures
to complete construction. Failure of any party to provide the additional funding
deposit within 30 days of the request will constitute a breach of this Agreement
and may result in the cessation of all work on the project, including work by
consultants or construction contractor(s). Costs incurred as a result of a stop work
notice to the contractor shall be borne by the partner(s) which failed to provide

timely payment.

Page 7 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

314 of 891


--- page 315 ---
Payments to the consultant(s) and contractor(s) shall be made by Town out of the
funds deposited by the parties. If the total funds collected exceed the actual direct
project costs upon completion of construction, Town shall refund the balance to
the parties in accordance with the percentages in Section 3 above. If the funds
collected are insufficient to cover the actual direct project costs, Town shall
invoice each party for the additional cost in accordance with the percentages in

‘

Section 3 above.

b) The Relief Line Project

Prior to advertisement of a contract(s) for construction of the Relief Line Project,
each partner agency shall: 1) provide written evidence to the City confirming, to
the satisfaction of the City, that funding for its share of the estimated total
construction phase direct project cost has been secured, in the form of a State
Revolving Fund loan or otherwise, and 2) deposit with the City an initial deposit
equal to 25% of its respective proportional share of the estimated total
construction phase direct project cost. Such initial’ deposit shall be calculated
based on the Engineer’s Estimate of Construction Cost and associated estimated
staff and consultant support costs for the construction phase. The City will issue a
funding request for each party’s initial deposit amount at least 30 days prior to the
proposed contract advertisement date. City will not advertise the construction
contract(s) until the proportional shares of the initial construction phase deposit
amount are received from all parties. Failure of any party to provide the
additional funding deposit within 30 days of the request will constitute a breach of

this Agreement and may result in the postponement of contract advertisement.

Upon receipt from each partner agency of the initial deposit and satisfactory
evidence that funding is secured for the construction phase, the City, as lead
agency, will take appropriate actions to advertise, bid, and award the construction
contract(s) and issue Notice to Proceed with Construction. Following issuance of

contract advertisement, City shall invoice each Partner Agency monthly for its

Page 8 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

315 of 891


--- page 316 ---
respective proportional share of actual direct project costs incurred by City during
the calendar month preceding the invoice. Any invoice not paid with 30 days
shall bear interest at the rate of 3% and may result in cessation of work on the

project in accordance with Section 5.A.

The deposit amount is subject to change by the City at any time as needed to
manage and complete the construction work without City incurring costs in
excess of the unexpended deposit balance on hand at the time the costs are
incurred. Costs are incurred and funds are considered expended at the time the
work if performed. City will issue a funding request to each party periodically as
needed to increase each party’s deposit amount to cover estimated expenditures to
complete construction. Failure of any party to provide the additional funding
deposit within 30 days of the request will constitute a breach of this Agreement
and may result in the cessation of all work on the project, including work by
consultants or construction contractor(s). Costs incurred as a result of a stop work
notice to the contractor shall be borne by the partner(s) which failed to provide

timely payment.

Payments to the consultant(s) and contractor(s) shall be made by City out of the
funds deposited by the parties. If the total funds collected exceed the actual direct
project costs upon completion of construction, City shall refund the balance to the
parties in accordance with the percentages in Section 3 above. If the funds
collected are insufficient to cover the actual direct project costs, City shall invoice
each party for the additional cost in accordance with the percentages in Section 3

above.

Page 9 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

316 of 891


--- page 317 ---
c) Town State Revolving Funding

The parties acknowledge that Town is applying for State Revolving Fund (“SRF”)
funding in an amount up to 100% of the estimated cost of Phase II. If funding in
such amount is granted, Town reserves the right to apply such funds entirely to
the construction costs for Phase II, which will result in Town paying more than its
51% share. In such event, the other parties hereto shall reimburse Town in an
amount equal to 49% of such construction costs, each in the ratio which its
percentage share bears to 49. Reimbursement shall be made from funds deposited
by such parties in accordance with section 5.C.a. In the event that SRF funding is
received after expenditure of any or all of funds deposited in accordance with
Section 5.C.a. shall have been expended for construction costs for Phase II, such
SRF funding shall be deemed to have been applied to such costs and the funds
deposited in accordance with Section 5.C.a., up to the amount of such SRF
funding, shall be deemed to be applied to reimbursement of payments for such

costs.

Section 6. Project Coordination

Town shall not be obligated to commence construction on the Phase II project until City

has given its contractor a Notice to Proceed on the Relief Line project.
Section 7. Ownership
The portion of the Improvements that are within the boundaries or corporate limits of the

Town shall be owned by the Town, and that portion of the Improvements that are within

the boundaries or corporate limits of City shall be owned by City.

Page 10 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

317 of 891


--- page 318 ---
Section 8. Survival

In the event that the 1989 Agreement is terminated or found to be unenforceable, the
provisions of this Third Amendment shall remain in effect as the funding mechanism for

the Improvements.

Section 9. Limitations

This Third Amendment shall not affect the allocation of costs for treatment, capital
improvements, or other services under the 1989 Agreement. Except as modified herein,

the terms of the 1989 Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

ATTEST: CITY OF SAN MATEO

David-Limr Robert Ress jw

City Clerk Mayor

APPRO AS TO FORM:

Shawn M. Mason

ATTEST: COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

Deputy Clerk of the Board Jo altbie, County Manager
Cl&k of the Board

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Brian Wong
County Counsel

Page 11 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

318 of 891


--- page 319 ---
ATTEST:

Deputy Clerk of the District

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

District Counsel

ATTEST:
City" A .

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

a 2 buf

Town Attorney

Page 12 of 13

CRYSTAL SPRINGS COUNTY
SANITATION DISTRICT

Ex-Officig Governing Board of the District

TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH

Version 2.0 2/4/14

319 of 891


--- page 320 ---
Certificate of Delivery
(Government Code Section 25103)
I certify that a copy of the original document filed in the Office of the Clerk of the

Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County has been delivered to the President of the

Board of Supervisors.
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
2235041.1
Page 13 of 13 Version 2.0 2/4/14

320 of 891


--- page 321 ---
This page left intentionally blank
321 of 891

--- page 322 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 3 – LEGAL
AUTHORITY APPENDIX 3.3
2022 Town of Hillsborough
Capital Cost Agreement
322 of 891

--- page 323 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
INTERIM AGREEMENT FOR PAYMENT OF CAPITAL COSTS
OF CLEAN WATER PROGRAM PROJECTS
This Interim Agreement for Payment of Capital Costs of Clean Water Program Projects (this
“Interim Agreement”) is entered into by and between the City of San Mateo (the “City”) and the
Town of Hillsborough (“Hillsborough”) and is based on the following:
A.
The City and Hillsborough are parties to a Sanitary Sewage Agreement entered into as of
July 18, 1989 (the “1989 Agreement”). The County of San Mateo (the “County”) and the
Crystal Springs County Sanitation District (the “District”) are also parties to the 1989
Agreement. The 1989 Agreement has been the subject of three prior amendments. The
1989 Agreement governs the operation of certain shared facilities for the transportation
and treatment of sanitary sewage, allocation of costs for maintenance and improvement
of the shared facilities, and allocation of treatment costs.
B.
The wastewater generated by the City, Hillsborough, the County, and the District is
subject to regulation under a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit
(the “NPDES permit”).
C.
D.
The City, Hillsborough, the County, and the District are subject to Cease and Desist
Order R2-2009-0020, which required certain improvements to the shared facilities.
The City has begun construction on a comprehensive suite of capital improvements
referred to as the “Clean Water Program,” including capital improvements to the sewage
treatment plant owned by the City and Foster City and operated by the City (the
“Wastewater Treatment Plant” or “WWTP”).
E.
The City, Hillsborough, the County, and the District have been negotiating a fourth
amendment to the 1989 Agreement to allocate capital costs for the Clean Water Program
and provide for the installation of a new meter along Polhemus Road. The fourth
amendment has not been finalized. The City, County, and District continue to discuss
terms unrelated to Hillsborough which need to be resolved in order to finalize the fourth
amendment.
F.
Hillsborough acknowledges its responsibility to pay for its share of the capital costs of
the Clean Water Program and is willing to make payments toward such capital costs on
an interim basis until the fourth amendment is finalized. Hillsborough’s Percentage Share
consists of Project Costs incurred by City beginning in October 2014 through the
completion of construction of Clean Water Program Projects.
G.
The City desires to receive the interim payment of capital costs from Hillsborough and
cooperate on other procedures between the two agencies until the fourth amendment can
be finalized.
Now, therefore, for good and valuable consideration, the City and Hillsborough agree as follows:
//
323 of 891

--- page 324 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
AGREEMENT
Section 1. Definitions
The following definitions apply to the terms used in this Amendment.
“Clean Water Program” means the suite of capital improvement projects to the City’s sewer
collection system and WWTP that are necessary for capacity assurance and reliability, and to
meet regulatory compliance requirements contained in the Cease and Desist Order and
NPDES permits.
“Clean Water Program Projects” means those projects listed in Exhibit A which provide a
benefit to Hillsborough and for which Hillsborough and others will be responsible for a share of
capital costs.
“District Meter” means the existing meter located along Polhemus Road owned and
maintained by the District which currently measures flows from the Polhemus Trunk Sewer
from the City/County/District and into the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer.
“Effective Date” means the date on which this Amendment is last signed by the parties.
“El Cerrito Meter” means the flow meter installed at El Cerrito Avenue near Gramercy Drive,
which measures sewage flows contributed by the City/Town/District/County.
“Maximum Allowable Flow” means the maximum volume of wastewater, expressed in
millions of gallons per day (MGD), that Hillsborough is authorized to convey through the El
Cerrito Meter and the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer. Based on a Technical Memorandum
prepared by Jacobs as revised October 12, 2020, the Maximum Allowable Flows for
Hillsborough is 7.1 MGD (Including 0.3 MGD for the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer) for purposes
of this Interim Agreement.
“Metered Flows” refers to the calculation of each party’s flows through various meters, as set
forth in Section 5 (Calculation of Flows) of the 1989 Agreement.
“New Polhemus Meter” means the meter to be installed by Hillsborough at or near Polhemus
Road to measure flows coming into the Crystal Springs/El Cerrito Trunk Sewer from the
Polhemus Trunk Sewer.
“Percentage Share” means Hillsborough’s share of Project Costs and is calculated by dividing
Hillsborough’s Maximum Allowable Flow by the maximum capacity at which a collection
system or treatment facility is designed to operate. The Percentage Share for various Project
Costs is set forth in Exhibit A, and is subject to adjustment as set forth in this Interim
Agreement. The general methodology for calculating the parties’ percentage shares based on
Maximum Allowable Flows is illustrated in the excerpts from the Technical Memorandum
324 of 891

--- page 325 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
attached to this Amendment as Exhibit A-1; provided, that the provisions in the body of this
Amendment shall control over the contents of Exhibit A-1.
“Project Costs” means all costs incurred by City to develop, finance, implement, and
complete construction of Clean Water Program Projects, including costs of construction
contracts, professional consultant services, material and equipment procurement, compliance
with regulatory requirements and mitigation measures, real property acquisitions, legal
services, finance and economic consultants, and staff costs. In addition, Project Costs include
any liability the City incurs in performing the work associated with Clean Water Program
Projects and any claims adjusting, claims investigation, and costs incurred in defending claims
(including reasonable attorney fees) brought by any consultant, contractor or third party for
damages arising out of the prosecution of the Clean Water Program Projects. “Project Costs”
does not include components of the Clean Water Program which do not benefit Hillsborough
and the costs for which are not allocated to it under this Interim Agreement.
Section 2. Interim Payment of Capital Costs
All financial participation requirements established in previous amendments to the 1989
Agreement and the 1989 Agreement remain in force and are not modified by this Interim
Agreement.
City and Hillsborough acknowledge that City is responsible for acquiring financing for Clean
Water Program Costs, and has done so through a line of credit, a series of sewer revenue
bonds issued in 2019, and loans through programs administered under the Federal Water
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act. City anticipates securing additional funding
through additional sewer revenue bonds and/or the Clean Water State Revolving Fund
program.
For purposes of calculating its payments under this Interim Agreement, Hillsborough’s
Percentage Share of Project Costs shall be:
WWTP Project Costs
7.6%
8.2%
8.2%
5.7%
Dale Avenue Pump Station Projects
Underground Flow equalization System Projects
Program Management Office
Subject to Section 3 below, Hillsborough agrees to reimburse the City for Project Costs
incurred in accordance with these percentage shares as follows:
Hillsborough will make an initial payment of $2,415,000.00, which shall be due and payable
within 30 days of the Effective Date. Thereafter, Hillsborough shall make quarterly payments
in accordance with Exhibit B (Scenario One – Full Flow) until this Interim Agreement is
replaced with the fourth amendment or other permanent arrangement. These interim
payments shall be in addition to the periodic charges for wastewater treatment services.
Exhibit B amortizes the remaining Project Costs after the initial payment on a 30-year basis.
Hillsborough may prepay its share of the remaining Project Costs, in whole or in part and
325 of 891

--- page 326 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
from time to time, without penalty. Hillsborough agrees it shall provide the City with at least
30 days advance notice should it intend to prepay any of its share of the remaining Project
Costs in any amount exceeding the scheduled payments described in Exhibit B. Hillsborough
and the City will thereafter amend Exhibit B accordingly to reflect Hillsborough’s said
prepayment of its share of Project Costs over the remaining years of the original 30-year
amortization period pursuant to Section 9 of this Interim Agreement.
Prior invoices for capital costs issued by the City to Hillsborough and any payments by
Hillsborough for such costs have been incorporated into Exhibit B.
Hillsborough acknowledges the Percentage Share was developed using a hydraulic model of
Hillsborough’s Maximum Allowable Flow and the design capacity of the facilities to be
constructed as part of the Clean Water Program and intended to be used for capital planning
over the course of the Clean Water Program. Hillsborough’s Percentage Share will remain
unchanged, even if actual flows do not exceed Maximum Allowable Flow, except as detailed
in Section 3.
The City shall provide an annual report to Hillsborough regarding the progress of the Clean
Water Program including percentage of completion of components of the Clean Water
Program and expected completion dates, Project Costs, interest rates, cost overruns, design
changes, and other pertinent financial information. The report shall be provided within 60
days of the end of each fiscal year while the Clean Water Program Improvements are being
constructed and at the end of the Clean Water Program.
Section 3. Alternative Allocation of Project Costs
The City agrees to provide for an alternative allocation of Project Costs that will apply under
the circumstances described in this section.
If during the five years from the Effective Date the Metered Flows from Hillsborough at the
El Cerrito Meter exceed the rolling average rate of 4.5 MGD (excluding the 0.3 MGD from
the Yew/Borel Trunk Sewer) for any two-hour period, then Hillsborough’s share of Project
Costs shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of Section 2. If during the five years
from the Effective Date the Metered Flows at the El Cerrito Meter from Hillsborough never
exceed the rolling average rate of 4.5 MGD for any two-hour period, then Hillsborough’s
share of Project Costs shall be:
WWTP Project Costs
5.2%
5.6%
5.6%
3.9%
Dale Avenue Pump Station Projects
Underground Flow Equalization System Projects
Program Management Office
Hillsborough’s rolling average over a two-hour period shall be calculated by the City using
the one-minute interval flow data of the preceding two hours recorded at the El Cerrito
Meter, less the one-minute interval flows recorded at the District Meter (until the New
Polhemus Meter has been installed and calibrated, and thereafter by the New Polhemus
Meter) for the comparable period that accounts for the lag time between the two meters. The
326 of 891

--- page 327 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
calculations for these flows shall be verified by a third-party consultant acceptable to the
parties.
Hillsborough agrees to pay the City its share of Project Costs as calculated pursuant to
Section 2 beginning at the Effective Date of this Interim Agreement.
If Hillsborough’s share of the Project Costs is to be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of this
section, Hillsborough shall make payments in the amounts as shown in Scenario II –
Reduced at 5 Year of Exhibit B. Hillsborough will receive a credit for the amount by which
the payments under Scenario I exceeded the amounts under Scenario II prior to adjustment,
and this credit will be applied to payments due under Scenario II until exhausted.
The five-year period established under this Section 3 shall be carried forward in the fourth
amendment or other modification of the 1989 Agreement.
Section 4. Metering
The parties acknowledge and agree that accurate measurement of flows is essential to the
allocation of both Project Costs and treatment costs.
(a) The City is agreeable to a new permanent flow meter to be installed at a new, more level
location near Polhemus Road as selected by Hillsborough, within Hillsborough’s municipal
boundaries (the “New Polhemus Meter”). The New Polhemus Meter shall be owned by
Hillsborough. The selection of the New Polhemus Meter will be recommended by a consultant
acceptable to the parties. Hillsborough shall provide the plans and specifications for the New
Polhemus Meter to the City for engineering review and approval. Approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld by the City. Any comments or objections shall be provided to
Hillsborough within 10 working days. If Hillsborough determines that installation of the New
Polhemus Meter involves modifications to the District’s facilities, Hillsborough shall at its
earliest opportunity inform the District and coordinate the modifications, including scheduling
and design, with the District. The City shall not be responsible for any design, scheduling, or
construction of modifications to the District’s facilities, if any are required. Hillsborough
acknowledges it is solely responsible for satisfying all conditions for the installation of the New
Polhemus Meter. Until the New Polhemus Meter is installed and calibrated, the current District
Meter shall continue to be used as the meter of record for measuring Hillsborough’s flows and as
a basis for billing treatment costs to Hillsborough under the 1989 Agreement. Once it is
installed, the New Polhemus Meter will be calibrated to manufacturer’s standards and put into
service and thereafter shall be the meter of record for Hillsborough’s flows and treatment costs
for the duration of this Interim Agreement. Hillsborough will pay the cost of installing the New
Polhemus Meter and the initial calibration. Thereafter, the City may utilize the District Meter
for comparative purposes.
(b) Within 60 days of the Effective Date, the El Cerrito Meter will be calibrated to
manufacturer’s standards by a consultant acceptable to the parties. Thereafter, the El Cerrito and
New Polhemus Meter will be read and maintained by a third-party consultant acceptable to the
parties. The City/District/County/Hillsborough shall have on-line access to the meter data from
the El Cerrito and New Polhemus Meters on a real-time basis. Meter calibration records shall be
327 of 891

--- page 328 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
shared amongst the City/District/County/Hillsborough.
(c) Following the installation and calibration of the New Polhemus Meter and the calibration of
the El Cerrito Meter, the meters shall be calibrated not less than annually and shall be replaced
when recommended by the third-party consultant.
(d) Except as provided in Section 4(a)-(c) above, the cost of calibrating the El Cerrito and New
Polhemus Meters shall be shared equally by the City and Hillsborough for the duration of this
Interim Agreement. Maintenance and reading costs of said meters shall continue pursuant to the
1989 Agreement.
Section 5. Payment
Hillsborough agrees to pay its Percentage Share of Project Costs incurred by the City for
Clean Water Program Projects. Hillsborough agrees to pay its Percentage Share of Project
Costs to City in installments as set forth in Exhibit B for the duration of this Interim
Agreement.
Installment payments will commence 30 days after the Effective Date and continue until the
full amount of Project Costs and interest has been paid, not exceeding 30 years from the
Effective Date, as provided in this Interim Agreement. The amount of the installments will be
based on the cost estimates for the Clean Water Program Projects on the effective date of this
Interim Agreement, plus interest based on the weighted average of any financing and
refinancing obtained for the Clean Water Program Projects. Installment payment amounts will
be reduced by the initial payment, as identified in Section 2, and by the amounts paid to the
City by Hillsborough for the flow-based percentage of actual costs incurred in connection with
Clean Water Program Projects during the period between October 2014 and the Effective
Date. The installment schedules in Exhibit B shall be adjusted for differing interest rates when
achieved.
Upon completion of construction of the Clean Water Program Projects, the City will
recalculate the amount of the installments to reflect the final Project Costs, plus interest as
provided in this section, and re-amortize these costs for the balance of time remaining in
Exhibit B. Hillsborough acknowledges that the amount of the installments may increase or
decrease based on actual Project Costs; however, in no case may the time for payment of the
full amount of Project Costs and interest exceed 30 years from the Effective Date unless
otherwise agreed for in any subsequent amendment or agreement.
The City and Hillsborough will meet and confer on any new projects in addition to those
described in Exhibit A that will have a material effect on the Project Costs payable by them.
Section 6. Late Payment
For any amounts invoiced and not paid to the City within 60 days, Hillsborough agrees to pay
to City a late charge equal to 1.5% of the overdue amount. This late charge is a reasonable sum
that takes into consideration all the circumstances existing on the date of this Interim
328 of 891

--- page 329 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
Agreement and is a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs and expenses that will be incurred
by City due to Hillsborough's failure to make timely payments. The parties agree that it would
be impracticable or extremely difficult to fix the actual damages resulting to City from
Hillsborough's failure to make timely payments.
Section 7. Payment Required During Dispute
The City and Hillsborough agree to comply with their respective obligations under this Interim
Agreement, including full payment of Project Costs as invoiced, while resolution of any
disputes under this Interim Amendment or the 1989 Agreement are pending.
Section 8. Survival
In the event that the 1989 Agreement is terminated or found to be unenforceable, the provisions
of this Interim Agreement shall remain in effect as the funding mechanism for Hillsborough’s
share of the Clean Water Program Projects as defined herein.
Section 9. Amendments and Amendment to Conform to New Agreement
In the event that the City agrees to financial terms with the District and/or County in a
subsequent modification of the 1989 Agreement or another agreement that are more favorable
than those set forth in this Interim Agreement, Hillsborough shall be entitled to the benefit of
the same terms, which shall be applied retroactively and prospectively.
In the event Hillsborough prepays its share of Project Costs as described in Section 2 of this
Interim Agreement, the City Managers of the City and Hillsborough are hereby authorized to
amend Hillsborough’s payment schedule(s) as reflected in Exhibit B. Any other amendment to
this Interim Agreement unrelated to the payment schedule shall continue to require approval
from the parties’ respective legislative bodies.
Section 10. Limitations
The terms of the 1989 Agreement, as amended, shall continue in full force and effect,
including its procedures for quarterly billing and annual reconciliation for operation and
maintenance costs, except that the City and Hillsborough agree to modify their rights and
obligations with respect to each other as provided in this Interim Agreement and do not intend
to affect the rights or obligations of the County or District. This Interim Agreement shall not
affect the allocation of costs for non-CWP capital improvement costs, or other services under
the 1989 Agreement except as provided in Section 4.
This Amendment affects the cost allocation for the Clean Water Program as designed as of the
Effective Date. Any future capital projects, including modifications to the WWTP or sewage
transmission lines, shall be the subject of an amendment to the 1989 Agreement.
In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Interim Agreement and the terms of the
1989 Agreement, as amended, the terms in this Interim Agreement shall control.
329 of 891

--- page 330 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6FDB9195-36C2-4B67-BC55-38F2D2FCD580
ATTEST:
City of San Mateo
6/28/2022
Patrice M. Olds
City Clerk
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
ATTEST:
Town of Hillsborough
6/29/2022
Lisa Natusch
City Clerk
Ann Ritzma
City Manager
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Christopher Diaz
City Attorney
330 of 891

--- page 331 ---
Exhibit A – Full Flow based Town/District/County Clean Water Program Project Costs with Percentage Share
San Mateo Shared SM Costs
Project
Estimate at
Town
EAC
District
EAC
County
EAC
Project Name
Project Description
Share (vs
with Regional
Customers
Number
Completion*
Foster City)
%
%
%
Implementation of the CWP including establishment of the Program Management
Program Management Office (PMO), management of staff and resources, Program Controls,
469981 
Clean Water Program construction management oversight, permitting, environmental documentation
(CWP)
document controls, change and risk management, and development and
implementation of design guidelines and standards.
$
72,672,093
18,621,628
87.94%
75.88%
$
$
63,907,839
14,130,091
5.7% $ 3,642,746.80
7.6% $ 1,073,886.94
3.9% $ 2,492,405.70
0.3% $
$
191,723.52
56,520.37
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing
WWTP Immediate ActionWastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) components including rehabilitation and
46T002
projects (IAP) Package 1 improvements to the secondary clarifiers and solids handling system, replacement
of motor control centers (MCC), and SCADA system improvements
$
5.2%
$
734,764.75
0.4%
Construction of a new preliminary and primary treatment facility and the
replacement of an existing secondary treatment process at the WWTP to elimina
SSOs as directed by a Cease and Desist Order issued by the Regional Water Qual ty
Control Board. State of the art technologies, including membrane bioreactor and
biological nutrient removal will be used to operate in peak flows, as well as produce
a high‐quality effluent, addressing requirements of the NPDES permit. The project
includes a new administration building that will house the SCADA system, a new
warehouse for equipment and parts storage, and the conversion of the existing
aeration basin to an equalization basin.
Nutrient Removal and
Wet Weather Flow
46T003
Management Upgrade
and Expansion Project
$ 540,176,708
75.88% $ 409,886,086
7.6% $31,151,342.54
5.2% $21,314,076.47
0.4%
0.4%
0.4%
$
$
$
1,639,544.34
42,232.16
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing
46T009 
WWTP IAP Package 2 WWTP components including installation of bar screens and rehabilitation and
improvements to the effluent pump station and solids handling system.
$
$
13,914,127
14,950,765
75.88%
75.88%
$
$
10,558,040
11,344,640
7.6%
7.6%
$
$
802,411.01
862,192.68
5.2%
5.2%
$
$
549,018.06
589,921.31
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing
46T010 
WWTP IAP Package 3 WWTP components at the effluent pump station including replacement of MCCs,
variable frequency drives (VFD), valves, and HVAC equipment.
45,378.56
An annual recurring budget, during the CWP, used to address priority projects
Annual Major
including replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy to influent
46T090 
Components (Recurring flow meters, the effluent pump station, dichlorination system, solids handling
Project) – WWTP
system, HVAC and odor control, site drainage, aeration basin blowers, primary
sludge pumps, dewatering equipment, and electrical equipment.
$
8,826,138
1,744,140
29,629,424
75.88% $
$
6,697,274
1,744,140
7.6%
8.2%
$
$
508,992.79
143,019.48
5.2%
5.6%
$
$
348,258.22
97,671.84
0.4%
0.4%
$
$
$
26,789.09
6,976.56
Repair and rehabilitation to allow for improved operation and reliability of DAPS
including repair to concrete, relining of wet wells, replacement of existing gates,
conduits, and piping, improvements for maintenance access, and improvements
for operational flexibility.
DAPS Wet Well
Rehabilitation
469942
$
100.00%
Replacement of existing pumps and installation of VFDs to improve DAPS capaci y
Basin 2 & 3 ‐ DAPS 
and reliability, replacement of existing control panels and generator, modifications
46S003
46S003
Notes
Improvements
and enhancements to the SCADA system, and modifications and enhancements
wetwell. Rehabilitation of the existing forcemains.
o
$
100.00%
100.00%
$
$
29,629,424
84,679,710
8.2% $ 2,429,612.79
8.2% $ 6,943,736.23
5.6% $ 1,659,247.76
5.6% $ 4,742,063.77
0.4%
0.4%
118,517.70
Basin 2 & 3 –
Construction of a 5.3 million gallon below grade tank for in‐system equalization
Underground Flow 
storage at the San Mateo County Event Center, associated diversion sewers, force
$
84,679,710
$
338,718.84
Equalization System 
mains, and pump station
TOTAL $ 785,214,733
$ 632,577,244
$
47,557,941
$
32,527,428
$
2,466,401
*Values are based on the Clean Water Program estimates as of April 2022
331 of 891

--- page 332 ---
Exhibit A – Reduced Flow based Town/District/County Clean Water Program Project Costs with Percentage Share
Estimate at
San Mateo 
Shared SM Costs
Town
EAC
District
EAC
Project Number
Project Name
Project Description
Completion*
Share (vs
with Regional
%
%
Implementation of the CWP including establishment of the Program Management Office
(PMO), management of staff and resources, Program Controls, construction
management oversight, permitting, environmental documentation, document controls
change and risk management, and development and implementation of design
Program Management Clean Water
Program (CWP)
469981
guidelines and standards.
$
72,672,093
18,621,628
87.94%
75.88%
$
$
63,907,839
14,130,091
3.9% $ 2,492,405.70
2.6% $ 1,661,603.80
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing
WWTP Immediate Action projects Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) components including rehabilitation and
46T002
46T003
(IAP) Package 1
improvements to the secondary clarifiers and solids handling system, replacement of
motor control centers (MCC), and SCADA system improvements
$
5.2% $
734,764.75
3.4%
$
480,423.11
Construction of a new preliminary and primary treatment facility and the replacement of
an existing secondary treatment process at the WWTP to eliminate SSOs as directed by a
Cease and Desist Order issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. State of the
art technologies, including membrane bioreactor and biological nutrient removal will be
used to operate in peak flows, as well as produce a high‐quality effluent, addressing
requirements of the NPDES permit. The project includes a new administration building
that will house the SCADA system, a new warehouse for equipment and parts storage,
the conversion of the existing aeration basin to an equalization basin.
Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather
Flow Management Upgrade and
Expansion Project
$ 540,176,708
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing WWTP
components including installation of bar screens and rehabilitation and improvements to
75.88%
75.88%
75.88%
$
$
$
409,886,086
10,558,040
11,344,640
5.2% $21,314,076.47
3.4% $13,936,126.93
46T009
46T010
WWTP IAP Package 2
WWTP IAP Package 3
the effluent pump station and solids handling system.
$
13,914,127
5.2%
5.2%
$
$
549,018.06
589,921.31
3.4%
3.4%
$
$
358,973.35
385,717.78
Replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy of various existing WWTP
components at the effluent pump station including replacement of MCCs, variable
frequency drives (VFD), valves, and HVAC equipment.
$
14,950,765
An annual recurring budget, during the CWP, used to address priority projects including
replacement, repair, and modification to provide redundancy to influent flow meters,
Annual Major Components (Recurring
Project) – WWTP
46T090
the effluent pump station, dichlorination system, solids handling system, HVAC and odor
control, site drainage, aeration basin blowers, primary sludge pumps, dewatering
equipment, and electrical equipment.
$
8,826,138
1,744,140
29,629,424
75.88% $
$
$
6,697,274
1,744,140
29,629,424
5.2%
5.6%
$
$
348,258.22
97,671.84
3.4%
3.7%
$
$
227,707.30
64,533.18
Repair and rehabilitation to allow for improved operation and reliability of DAPS including
repair to concrete, relining of wet wells, replacement of existing gates, conduits, and
piping, improvements for maintenance access, and improvements for operational
469942
46S003
DAPS Wet Well Rehabilitation
flexibility.
$
100.00%
Replacement of existing pumps and installation of VFDs to improve DAPS capacity and
reliability, replacement of existing control panels and generator, modifications and
enhancements to the SCADA system, and modifications and enhancements to wetwell.
Rehabilitation of the existing forcemains.
Basin 2 & 3 ‐ DAPS Improvements
$
100.00%
100.00%
5.6% $ 1,659,247.76
5.6% $ 4,742,063.77
3.7% $ 1,096,288.70
3.7% $ 3,133,149.28
Construction of a 5.3 million gallon below grade tank for in‐system equalization storage at
Basin 2 & 3 – Underground Flow
Equalization System
46S003
the San Mateo County Event Center, associated diversion sewers, force mains, and pum
$
84,679,710
$
84,679,710
station
TOTAL $ 785,214,733
$
632,577,244
$
32,527,428
$
21,344,523
Notes
*Values are based on the Clean Water Program estimates as of April 2022
332 of 891

--- page 333 ---
Exhibit A-1 – Town of Hillsborough
Cost share for DAPS & UFES:
Proportion of Flow from DAPS:
Flowcontributions through El Cerrito
Meter:
6.8 ꢄꢅꢆ + 0.3 ꢄꢅꢆ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃ = 8.2%∗ 61 ꢄꢅꢆ = 5.0 ꢄꢅꢆ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃ =
= 8.2%
12.9 ꢄꢅꢆ + 0.3 ꢄꢅꢆ +73 ꢄꢅꢆ
• Town = 6.8 mgd
• District = 4.8 mgd
• County = 0.4 mgd
• City = 0.9 mgd
Cost share for WWTP:
Total Flow to DAPS & UFES = 86.2 mgd
12.9 mgd + 73 mgd + 0.3 mgd
5.0 ꢄꢅꢆ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃ =
= 7.6%
78 ꢄꢅꢆ −12.2 ꢄꢅꢆ
TOTAL = 12.9 mgd
Minor
Parties
& City
DAPS
61 mgd
WWTP
78 mgd
Other City
Flows
4.8 mgd1
Foster City
12.2 mgd
UFES
DAPS – Dale Avenue Pump Station
City flows = 73 mgd
(Based on 2014 Master Plan)
UFES – Underground FlowEqualization System
WWTP – Wastewater Treatment Plant
Mgd – million gallons per day
Town
Town Flow from Yew / Borel= 0.3 mgd
1. Flow includes Bay Meadows PS, Flint PS, and Mariners Island.
333 of 891

--- page 334 ---
Exhibit B
Town of Hillsborough Clean Water Program Costs
Scenario I - Full Flow
Scenario II - Reduced at 5yr
Years 1‐5 
Years 6‐30
Max El Cerrito Flow (mgd)
Clean Water Program Costs1
Clean Water Program Payments2
Clean Water Program Contribution3
Interest Rate4
6.8
4.5
4.5
$
$
$
47,557,941
3,362,249
44,195,692
3.50%
$
$
$
47,557,941
3,362,249
44,195,692
3.50%
$
$
$
32,527,428
10,478,018
22,049,410
3.50%
Installment Years
30
5
25
Annual Installment Payment
$
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979) $
(1,337,827)
Payment Year
Annual Payment Amount
Annual Payment Amount
Annual Payment Amount
2022 $
2023 $
2024 $
2025 $
2026 $
2027 $
2028 $
2029 $
2030 $
2031 $
2032 $
2033 $
2034 $
2035 $
2036 $
2037 $
2038 $
2039 $
2040 $
2041 $
2042 $
2043 $
2044 $
2045 $
2046 $
2047 $
2048 $
2049 $
2050 $
2051 $
Total $
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979) $
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(72,089,359) $
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
(2,402,979)
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(1,337,827)
(33,445,667)
(45,460,560)
(12,014,893) $
Total $
1Estimated share of CWP project costs as of 4/2022 estimates; subject to change based on final actual costs.
2Payments made toward the CWP project costs as of 2/18/22 + payment of $2,415,000 pending receipt. For the reduced flow scenario, the
payments made account for extra principal paid in the first 1‐5 years.
3Share of CWP project costs less project payments.
4The final interest rate will be based on the weighted average of the financings and refinancings obtained for the CWP Projects. Debt service
payments will be revised accordingly.
334 of 891

--- page 335 ---
This page left intentionally blank
335 of 891

--- page 336 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 3 – LEGAL
AUTHORITY APPENDIX 3.5
City of Belmont Agreement
336 of 891

--- page 337 ---
AMENDMENT TO

AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF SAN MATEO AND CITY OF BELMONT FOR
SANITARY SEWER MAIN CONNECTIONS AND CHARGES

THIS AMENDMENT is entered into this 18t day of _MARCH , 2004,
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, hereinafter called “San Mateo”, and the
CITY OF BELMONT, hereinafter called “Belmont”.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, the parties have previously entered into an Agreement for Sanitary
Sewer Main Connections and Charges dated October 20, 1981, and now wish to amend
said Agreement;

WHEREAS, Belmont finds it difficult, if not impossible, to provide water
consumption data for the months of October through March as required by recital Section
7(b) of the current agreement;

WHEREAS, Belmont is unable to supply the consumption data by April of each year to
San Mateo as required by Recital Section 8;

WHEREAS, San Mateo requires additional time at year end to close the fiscal year and
provide Belmont with either a refund or request for additional payment beyond the September |
date as required by Recita) Section 9;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY THE PARTIES HERETO,
AS FOLLOWS:

1, - Recital, Recital Section 7(b) of the current agreement is revised to
change the consumption months used to arrive at the fee for conveyance, treatment and
disposal of sewage from October through March to November through April. Recital
Section 7(b) now reads:

A fee for conveyance, treatment, and disposal of sewage. The amount of the fee
to be arrived at by taking the average of five winter months (November through April) of
household potable water metered consumption (extrapolated to 12 months) for sewer
users in BELMOMT and SAN MATEO and dividing it into the pro rata cost share of
budgets for annual conveyance, treatment, and disposal of sewage to be expended by AN
MATEO in behalf of SAN MATEO and BELMONT, thereby to obtain a cost per 100
cubic feet of potable water used to convey, treat, and dispose of sewage emanating from
such domestic potable water usage. Based on that amount per 100 cubic feet of water
consumption, multiply the metered water usage of BELMONT properties to arrive at a
total amount for conveyance, treatment, and disposal due SAN MATEO from
BELMONT.

2. Recital Recital Section 8 of the current agreement is revised to
change the month that the consumption data will be supplied by Belmont to San Mateo

U:\pw\P WENG\HILLJ\Sewer4\AMENDBELMONTAGREE. doc Page | of Z

ORIGINAL

_ be 337 of 891


--- page 338 ---
from April to June and to change the consumption months used to arrive at the fee for
conveyance from October through March to November through April. Additionally,

Belmont is to supply supporting backup (i.e., actual water consumption for each month).
Recital Section 8 now reads:

BELMONT will supply SAN MATEO with the five winter months metered water
usage (November through April) (averaged and extrapolated to 12 months usage
including supporting backup) in June of each year for each BELMONT property or unit
served in BELMONT. Winter consumption readings minimize distortion of charges due
to irrigation usage in gardens. SAN MATEO will provide budget figures and actual last
year’s expenditures figures to BELMONT in July of each year.

3. Recital Recital Section 9 of the current agreement is revised to
change the September 1 time of additional payment or refund to October 1, Recital
Section 9 now reads:

Time of Payments ~ Payments pursuant to said formula shall be made during the
month of July of each fiscal year as compensation in advance for estimated costs for such
fiscal year. Subsequent additional payments or refunds are to be determined after the
close of the fiscal year not later than October 1, of the succeeding fiscal year to adjust the
amount to become equivalent to the cost experienced during the fiscal year if different
than the advance payment made at the beginning of the fiscal year.

All other terms shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. ,

CITY OF SAN MATEO, a CITY OF BELMONT, a
Municipa! Corporation Municipal Corporation

eorge Metrppulos; Mayor

atest PIM (We
City Clerk Terri Cook .

ww

-

U:\pwWPWENG\HILLI\Sewer04\AMENDBELMONTAGREE, doc Page 2 of 2

338 of 891



--- page 339 ---
. re EXHIBIT B
© AGREENENT O

al oo _ BETWEEN CITY OF SAN MATEO AND CITY OF BELMONT

“THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this.20th day ‘of

__ Oc tober » by and batsrean the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a Municipal Corporation, .

hereinafter referred to as “SAN MATEO” and the CITY OF BELMON NE a Monteipel
Corporation, hereinafter referred to as "BELMONT".

RECITALS:

a) where extaxs an agreement, dated March 31, 1954, between SAN MATEO
and BELMONT authorizing BELMONT to have certain connections of sanitary outfall

sewers to SAN MATEO sewers and containing a consideration formula for the

a privilege ef connection and Subsequent treatment of sewage by SAN. “HATED;

2 ‘The comideration for -pemmsston “to retain ee and, for

‘Service set forth in that agreement was based on a2 formila ‘ofs “The total ~~

~ pf an amount a) arrived at ‘by applying a rate provided in tb) below, pexr $100

assessed valuation as shown on the secured rolls of the County »E— San Mateo for |

those properties within the CITY OF BELMONT, served by the Sancta outfall ;
Bewers of the CITY oF SAN MATEO"; : a, .

b) "The. rates shall be the cost per $100 assessed valuation as
shown on the secured rolls of the County of San Mateo. for propertien Situated

‘within the CITY OF SAN MATEO for the operation; maiiitengnce, and ‘aepréciation a

ofthe . sewage itredtment, :plent, forée’ ‘main : and,pumps.;and the apnincineys and
interestyos. pantyebondans ndebtednesstincarred atheretoress a

ween tay

3) The time of — under said es was to becaceagttiarapnth.

GE -Sariuary ‘of eachize Saieaieaaiaal si aul dngadvance.,. Forgphencal ender: TSaEd. a
—————

; ‘AY: a as elective Proposition 13 of the State ‘RE California has
‘“frozen™ some assessed valuations while other assessed valuations are allowed |

. ‘to be escalated upon the txreation or sale of properties causing the base of

assessed valuation between properties’ in BELMONT and SAN ‘MATEO to become .—.
wabexrated.for.comparism,. itis mecessary that the basis of «charges to -BELMONT
‘properties for ‘services through SAN MATEO trunk Hines, pump plents, and
treatment facilities be changed to a more agutens and representative formulas

5) SAN MATEO anil BELMONT have forther agreed, ic, 2 second’ ‘document .
dated. October 6, 2980, that SAN MATEO would authorize additional conmections to
SAN MATEO sewers in the Lauriedale area east of Old County Road, near U.S. 103,

x a &
-and conditions of that Recond agreement included:

a) ‘SAN MATEO and BELMONT agree to extend the terns and conditions .

of the March 31, 1954, agreement to the sewer service of Woodbridge Park.
, Subdivision Unit D on an interin basis with _Baprseton for Eqpaea charges
for Unit D. ; “

OO 339 of 891

eat


--- page 340 ---
/* ee “CO:

and ‘CITY OF BELNONT will continue in-effect oe all BELMONT pxropexties until .
April J, 1982, at which time the payment of Sewer Service Charges will be
revised by substitute agreement to conform with the current sewer service..’
charge method in effect within the CITY OF SAN MATEO.

c) THE CLYY OF BELMONT will pay to the CITY-OF SAN MATEO a
connection fee of $250.00 per single family home connected in Woodbridge Park

Unit.D payable to SAN MATEO at the time the building permits are issued by ‘the °

CITY. OF BELMONT.

‘d) An Inspection-service, manhole will be constructed at the CLiy
boundary in the sewer line Serving Woodbridge Park Unit aia

e)} BELMONT will operate gal maintain all sewer iaiies. in BELMONT.
SAN MATEO will operate and maintain all, sewer  TAnEB, PUMPS, and ‘treatment :
facilities. in SAN MATEO. ; .
-. ¥) SAN ‘MATEO shall have sha igh: ws Heese tie and existing
“pewer Janes and laterals iu BELMONT “for Boumdness, rate nf anarres oe
storm ‘and yround waters, amd dilicit connections. « -

6) AML conditions, rights, and sheaves ‘should be uniform for:

properties in ‘BELMONT sewered throngh SAN MATEO.

NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows: .

a} “the agreement ; iuegeen the CLTY OF SAN MATEO.and the CITY OF .
‘BELMONT for sanitary outfall sewer connection and charts dated March 31, . 1954,
is’ superseded by this saat and ad no force or SASEERs ;

NM

b>) ‘The agreement dated October 6, ‘1980, regarding sewer ‘connections |

. and charges for BELMONT properties in Woodbridge Park; Unit .D, sto. SAN. MATEO seal 2

superseded by this agreement and of no force ar amet

>) All present“BELMONT comactions to the SAN MATEO sewer mains gre.
to remain 2s presently constituted. It is further agreed that at each |
Wantersertion point sk ELMONT wewer anains-with SAN MATEO sewer mains<2t the
- City boundary lines, there shall be a:‘manhole Located near the boundary Line ;
_ aoe Taapection, and nesting of entering flows ae peoenites in BELMONT. ;

a). That before new BELMONT. cannecttons are: inhithe to sewer saat

‘tributary -to SAN MATEO in BELMONT or substantial changes made in present land
.uses and intensities in BELMONT Ipagerktes served by existing connections, that ..
———SAN-MATEO-—731.1 be-—eonsuite

therefrom to the SAN MATEO system. SAN at will not unreasonaity withhold
approval therefore. - oy “e! _ #8 ; é

e) That ‘SAN MATEO has the privilege of inspecting mains, lines, ‘ant

triputary properties in BELMONT. to insure compliance with State Water Quality a

Cor.trol, Board, Federal EPA, and SAN MATEO rules, regulations, and ordinances’ ’

. relating to kinds and angst of aEwEER that | may be introduced to the system
for conveyance and treatment.

340 of 891

b) The ngreement: dated March 31, ‘3954, between CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 341 ---
£) That as consideration for ent. connections anu for the service o£
e " ReGREANE and treating the sewage from properties in BELMONT that BELMONT wiz

pay im advance to SAN MATEO each fiscal year, beginning July 1, each year of

“this agreement amounts based upon the following formula:

7) a) A, connection; feexfor each new commercial, manufacturing ox
residential unit added“td”the BELMONT system draining to SAN MATEO at the time
it is added. The fee shall be as agreed upon by mutual Council resolutions,
including changes from time to time. Initial residential fee shall be $250.00
per ‘single family unit added to the BELMONT systen.

b) A fee for conveyance, — and disposal of sewage. The .
amount of the fee to be arrived at by taking the average of five winter months ~:~
{October through March) of household potable water metered consumption :

(extrapolated to 12 months) for sewer users in BELMONT and SAN MATEO and
dividing it into the pro rata cost share of budgets for annual conveyance,
treatment, and disposal of sewage to be expended by SAN MATEO <in behalf. of SAN
' MATEO znd BELMONT, thereby to pbtain 4 cost per 100 cubic feet of -potahle watex -.  #
used to convey, treat, and dispose of sewage emanating from ‘such domestic . Te
potable water usage. Based. on-that. amount per 100 eubic feet of water ’
* consumption, multiply ‘the “metered water usage of HELMONT properties cto arrive
at a total enount for SONIRT ATEN treatment P and disposal due SAN a from
BELMONT , ‘ ‘ . ‘ . .

ce) sn additional credit « or ‘charge ae with the Sized year
of this agreement, to reflect the difference between 1) budgeted amounts and .
2} actual amounts of monies expended in behalf of SAN MATEO and BELMONT to oF
convey, treat, and dispose of sewage from BELMONT and = MAXEO in, neni em "
be paragraph b) above,
i a) A proportionate ‘ghaxe of anmal cash: ‘capital expenditires and
- annual bond debt service for sewer trunk mains, pumping plants, treatment

works, and outfall mains, based on pro rata usage of these capital facilities, gu He

8 as measured by Sear aehes cermoted £lows there ‘through. Le Te i

" 8) gEELMONT, will “supply” SAN-MATEO with the ive UintSs Gaathssastere |
eaters “Conteheee through March)i.(averaged and extrapolated to 22 months ste
usage) in April ofeach year for each BELMONT. property.orswnit.servedtin 2 00. ':
"BELMONT. Winter consumption readings minimize distortion of charges due -to ;
irrigation usage in gardens. <SAN°MATEO“Wi11 provide bidget” figures. cmnd.actoals*

last year "Ss. genera ture figures to BELMONT in aly, of eae yeare

9) Time of Payments ° - Payments 5 — to said: — shalt ‘be nade :
duringsthes ety of" Iulygof*each*£iscal” yea? as" ‘compensationsine ‘advance=for”
s ‘for Stich«fiscal.year. Subsequent additional payments or ~
refunds are to “be determined aftex the close of the fiscal yearsnotelater than,
* xen pLEMbETUAY OF - the succeeding fiscal year to adjust the amount to becone
equivalent to the cost experienced during the fiscal year if different than the
. advance paynent made at the beginning of the fiscal year..

_ 10)' Each city vill nutabetn, own, operate; and be réeponsiit« for its’
respective sewer collection, pumping, and treatment: fachlities.- ;

_ . an 341 of 891 |


--- page 342 ---
.

* oy ”

11) Yerm of Agred ht = 1 ~ This agreement: shall cont. ave indefinitely and

“sinay pe-terminated at the option of either party hereto by at Beast 90 days

written notice to the other party. This agreement may be awended from time to
time upon mutual agreement of the two parties.

Notices shall be in writing and shall be tronendivecd by
registered United States mail, nestege pre-paid.

Notices to SAN MATEO shall be addressed as follows:

City Manager |

City Hall

330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403 .

Notices to BELMONT shall be addressed as. follows: ~

ania Manager. | ae
1365 Fifth Aveme “« « . :
PaO, C&A. 84002 -

.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have a their corporate |

" names and seals to be hereunto subscribed the pau day of October > 1982.

 CrTy OF SAN MATEO, 2 Mencia Corporation oe

«if ; By ‘fs/ RICHARD B. DE TONG
- SO CITY MANAGER -

: armesr: (SEAL) fet DORIS CHRISTEN

.

GITY OF BELMONT, a Monicipal Corporation i

yth-14
. 342 of 891



--- page 343 ---
This page left intentionally blank
343 of 891

--- page 344 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – OPERATIONS AND
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Appendix 4.1 – CCTV Standards
Appendix 4.2 – Sewer Pipe Cleaning
SOPs
Appendix 4.3 – PS Maintenance & Equipment
Appendix 4.4 – Sewer Maintenance Crew
Training
Appendix 4.5 – Manhole Inspection Program
Appendix 4.6 – Hot Spots and Leak
Detection Program
Appendix 4.7 – Dedicated Equipment and
Personnel
Appendix 4.8 – Collection System Maps and
Information
344 of 891

--- page 345 ---
This page left intentionally blank
345 of 891

--- page 346 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.1
CCTV Standards
346 of 891

--- page 347 ---
This page left intentionally blank
347 of 891

--- page 348 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Department of Public Works
Closed-Circuit
Television
Inspection
Manual
January 2014
348 of 891

--- page 349 ---
SECTION 1 – INTRODUCTION
Page
1.1 Manual Contents.......................................................................................................2
1.2 Importance of Television Inspection.........................................................................2
1.3 Standardized Procedures and Codes ........................................................................2
1.4 CCTV Requirements Specific to San Mateo ...........................................................3
SECTION 2 – PRE-INSPECTION ACTIVITIES
2.1 Site Assessment .......................................................................................................3
2.2 Counter Calibration ..................................................................................................4
2.3 Public Notification / Access to Private Property .....................................................4
2.4 Safety .......................................................................................................................4
SECTION 3 – DATA COLLECTION/PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
3.1 CCTV Performance .................................................................................................5
3.2 CCTV Quality Standards .........................................................................................5
3.3 Record Keeping .......................................................................................................6
3.4 Digital Data Format & File Naming ........................................................................7
3.5 Screen Text ..............................................................................................................8
3.6 Narration ..................................................................................................................9
3.7 Special CCTV Procedures (Buried Manholes) ........................................................9
SECTION 4 – STANDARDIZED CCTV CODES
4.1 General Guidelines ...................................................................................................10
4.2 Required Header Information ..................................................................................10
Table 4.2-1 CITY Required CCTV Header Information ..............................................10
Table 4.2-2 CITY Reasons for CCTV/Purpose of Survey Descriptions ......................12
Table 4.2-3 CITY Location Code Descriptions ............................................................13
Table 4.2-3.a San Mateo Truck Routes .........................................................................14
4.3 Camera Start and End Codes ...................................................................................14
4.4 Continuous Defects ..................................................................................................15
4.5 CCTV Observation Codes .......................................................................................15
349 of 891

--- page 350 ---
SECTION 1 – INTRODUCTION
The City of San Mateo Department of Public Works (CITY) owns, operates and maintains the public
sanitary sewer collection system and storm drainage facilities within the City of San Mateo. The CITY
performs a thorough condition assessment of the public sewer mainlines and manholes on a five year
schedule to adequately track the condition of these assets and plan for replacement prior to failure.
The information provided in this manual is intended to supplement any contractual requirements that bind
a contractor performing this work for the CITY.
1.1 MANUAL CONTENTS
This manual includes the general procedures required to mobilize for, perform, and document conditions
found while inspecting manhole and underground pipe utilities in the City of San Mateo utilizing closed
circuit television inspection (CCTV). This manual is intended for use in conjunction with NASSCO
Standards for sewer mainline, sewer lateral and sewer manhole condition assessment. Use of NASSCO
instructions, methods of data capture and codes is required for CITY projects. Current NASSCO PACP
and MACP certification of all CCTV operators is required for all contracted CCTV work. Nothing in this
manual alters NASSCO standards or codes. This manual provides data collection and submittal
procedural information specific to San Mateo.
1.2 IMPORTANCE OF TELEVISION INSPECTION
CITY has a primary responsibility to protect and maintain its facilities and to prevent sewage spills that
could create public health hazards or damage to the environment. CCTV provides information about the
condition of the pipes so they can be properly maintained, repaired, and/or replaced. CCTV information
is used to schedule routine maintenance, identify critical repair/rehabilitation needs and prioritize these
repairs, and establish budgets for rehabilitation, system improvements, spot repairs and large-scale
projects. CCTV is also used to verify the quality of preventative maintenance cleanings, new pipe
construction and pipeline rehabilitation.
Captured CCTV data will be used primarily for the following purposes:




Develop a condition rating for each line.
Provide follow-up maintenance and/or structural recommendations.
Display results on a map.
Establish benchmarks to compare with future inspections of the same pipe.
1.3 STANDARDIZED PROCEDURES AND CODES
It is important for all CCTV inspections to be completed to a uniform standard. The use of uniform codes
to describe conditions and defects allows the reviewer to gain a good understanding of the condition of a
pipe and be able to assess deterioration of a pipe from one inspection to the next. All CCTV performed
by CCTV contractors must be performed by NASSCO certified operators using current NASSCO
standards and coding system that can be found in current NASSCO documents. Video, still images and
data shall be delivered to the City on a portable hard-drive for large scale projects or on digital video discs
(DVDs) for small projects. The City shall specify the media storage type at the start of the contract.
Database shall be an unmodified NASSCO-PACP Certified Database.
350 of 891

--- page 351 ---
For large sewer basin CCTV contracts, upon completion of the first 1000 LF, contractor shall submit data
and video logs for review and acceptance prior to continuing work. For smaller contracts, project
manager may request a submittal of a portion of the initial data capture. Requests made by CITY staff to
alter the data and video collection process shall be adhered to for the remainder of the contract.
1.4 CCTV REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIC TO SAN MATEO



All CCTV contractors performing work for the City of San Mateo shall use NASSCO PACP
Standards Version 6 or higher.
In addition to televising pipes, all manholes shall be panned with the video camera and visually
inspected.
All contractors shall first upload the City of San Mateo sewer GIS layer information for use
within CCTV software inside the CCTV vehicle prior to commencing work. Utilizing the GIS
layer during CCTV operations will minimize data entry errors.

If contractor confirms that information in the GIS data provided by CITY is inaccurate, such as
pipe size, length, material or the flow direction inside the pipe (if PipeID has the upstream
manhole and downstream manhole reversed), contractor shall make notations in the Additional
Information Header field.


Contractor shall refer to table 4.2-1 for data matching of GIS fields with CCTV Header fields.
Contractor shall follow NASSCO Header guidelines. Tables 4.2-1, 4.2-2 and 4.2-3 give
additional information specific to the City of San Mateo for completing the header section.
CITY requires CCTV data submittal on a portable external hard drive for large projects. DVD’s
can be used for smaller projects as directed by the CITY.
For CCTV contracts that cover a large sewer basin, pre-cleaning activities shall include use of
hydro-cleaning as well as mechanical cleaning equipment where necessary to clear the pipe and
allow video capture of the entire length of pipe.



Contractors providing CCTV following a completed pipe rehabilitation project must submit
CCTV information for the entire length of pipe and follow all requirements of this Manual and
NASSCO PACP standards.



Contractor shall follow CITY guidelines for buried manholes described in section 3.7.
Contractor shall follow CITY guidelines for video Start and End points described in section 4.3.
If contractor utilizes continuous defect coding, contractor shall ensure that the defect end code is
entered at the appropriate footage and not at the end of the video run.
SECTION 2 – PRE-INSPECTION ACTIVITIES
This section includes basic information on pre-inspection activities including all activities required to
assess the requirements for working at the job site, mobilize for the field and set up equipment before
actually performing the CCTV.
2.1 SITE ASSESSMENT
It is important to be familiar with the CCTV project area; the location of sewer assets, direction of flow
and access issues to sewers in public right-of-ways and in utility easements. Further, knowledge of
historical sewer problems encountered in different areas of the City will help the contractor prepare for
and mobilize appropriate hydraulic and/or mechanical equipment necessary to effectively clean sewer
pipes for successful CCTV.
Blockage Removal - CITY contracts for cleaning and CCTV work anticipate shifting the burden of
removing blockages within sewer pipes (aside from structural issues) to the CCTV contractor. CITY
crews are not to be dispatched except under extenuating circumstances and as directed by the CITY
351 of 891

--- page 352 ---
project manager. CCTV contractor shall utilize their own hydraulic and mechanical cleaning equipment
to adequately clear and remove blockages if the traditional four passes with a hydraulic jet nozzle has
failed to adequately clear and remove blockages.
Plugging or bypassing - Plugging or bypassing needs shall be determined by CITY project manager
during project development unless otherwise specified in the contract Where projects call for flow
control, contractor shall provide plans describing methods that will be used for plugging and bypassing.
During project work, Contractor shall obtain approval from the CITY project manager prior to initiating
plugging or bypassing.
Large diameter pipes: Large diameter pipes often require special procedures for flow control, lighting,
and camera travel or use of sonar equipment. Only CCTV crews with the appropriate equipment and
training to perform large diameter pipe inspection should do so.
2.2 COUNTER CALIBRATION
The footage counter for the camera must be calibrated at least every two weeks during CCTV operations.
The footage counter must be accurate to 0.5 feet per 100 feet. The calibration is performed by checking
the cable counter against a measured length of 400 feet. The date of last calibration should be recorded for
every CCTV report.
2.3 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION – ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY
Property owners must be notified if access to property is required. CCTV contractors must follow the
CITY prescribed easement access procedures for the project being performed and provide no less than 72
hour notification to residents prior to entering onto private property. Sample notifications will be
provided by the CITY project manager. Notifications must include on-site contractor and CITY direct
emergency phone numbers should residents experience sewer problems during the project.
2.4 SAFETY
CCTV operators and field crew shall all be thoroughly knowledgeable about the following documents
describing procedures for activities related to CCTV:

Current GREENBOOK STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
CONSTRUCTION sections including but not limited to the following sections:
o
o
o
Section 7-10 – Public Convenience and Safety
Section 500-1.1.4– Cleaning and Preliminary Inspection
Section 500-1.1.5– Television Inspection



Current CALTRANS STANDARDS for traffic control procedures when required by the City or
CALTRANS.
Equipment owner’s manuals (for CCTV vehicle, Cleaning vehicle and cleaning tools and
equipment operation, maintenance, and troubleshooting) .
Software user’s manuals (for software operation, maintenance, and troubleshooting).
352 of 891

--- page 353 ---
 
For contracted work: Special Procedures (SP-) outlined in contract documents which refer
to modifications or additions to sections in the Standard Specifications which have the same
first numbers (e.g., 200-2).
Traffic Control and Safety - Traffic control is normally required to perform CCTV. GREENBOOK or
CALTRANS STANDARD must be followed at all times. The City will determine whether the traffic
control is adequate. Flashing lights must be used for all night work.
Atmospheric Testing - Atmospheric Testing must be performed even if entry into the manhole is not
planned. This prevents personnel leaning over the manhole from being overcome by noxious gasses and
allows emergency confined space entry if necessary. If the gas detector alarm sounds, contact a
supervisor immediately.
NOTE: If the safety of field personnel or the public, or safe use of field equipment, is threatened at any
time during the CCTV process, the field activities should be stopped and the site secured. If CITY field
personnel are performing the CCTV, the supervisor should be notified immediately. If a CCTV contractor
is performing the CCTV, the prime contractor and CITY’S project manager should be notified
immediately.
SECTION 3 – DATA COLLECTION/PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
This section describes CCTV performance standards, including general information and definitions,
quality standards, record keeping requirements, digital data formatting, appropriate screen text
information and narration, and special CCTV procedures.
3.1 CCTV PERFORMANCE
CCTV performance includes the following:





Consistent use of NASSCO standard forms and codes
Uniform compliance with setup and inspection procedures
Quality picture and audible records
Suitable camera speed, lighting, and panning
Accuracy when recording file names and electronic data
3.2 CCTV QUALITY STANDARDS
Camera Travel Speed: The speed of travel shall be slow enough to inspect each pipe joint, tee
connection, structural deterioration, infiltration and inflow sources, and deposits. Camera speed should
not, at any time, travel at a rate of more than 30 feet per minute. The camera speed should be steady or
slower when recording features and defects.
Clarity: All video and still picture images must be clear and sharp. The camera operator should adjust
focus, zoom, and lighting as needed to obtain a satisfactory image. The recorded image from the CCTV
camera must be free of fog or haze in the pipe. If the camera lens becomes obscured with condensation,
grease, scum, or debris, the camera should be removed from the pipe and cleaned.
Lighting: Lighting in the pipe should be such that the pipe is illuminated and there is a minimum amount
of glare. Lighting should be adjusted as needed according to the size of the pipe to provide a clear picture
of the entire periphery of the pipe for all conditions encountered.
353 of 891

--- page 354 ---
Visibility: Where practical, CCTV inspections will be conducted in a manner that provides an
unobstructed view of the entire pipe. Identifying structural defects is important as they influence the
long-term integrity of the pipe. If debris or obstructions impede visibility, the pipe needs to be cleaned
and camera inspection rescheduled. 85% to 100% of the inside of the pipe must be visible at all times for
successful condition assessment. In some cases, nighttime work may be required in order to obtain
appropriately low flow levels for CCTV. If maximum pipe wall visibility and sufficiently low flow levels
cannot be obtained even at night, flow plugging and/or bypass pumping may be required. Plugging
should only be performed under the direction and approval of the CITY. For new pipe construction
acceptance inspection, nearly 100 percent of the circumference of the pipe wall circumference must be
visible. A small amount of water will be introduced for purposes of sag identification.
Verification of Map Length: If a pipe’s map length (as indicated by the written distance shown on sewer
or storm drain maps, plan sheets, or contained in GIS Field=LENGTH) and the CCTV video counter
length differ by more than 5 feet, the field length should be verified by measuring between the centerlines
of the manholes using a measuring tape or wheel.
3.3 RECORD KEEPING
Sewer Pipe Segment Reference Number (Pipe ID): The CITY has developed a standardized system for
assigning unique identification numbers for each sewer pipe segment. This convention joins the upstream
MH# with the downstream MH# separated with an underscore and omitting the dashes used within each
manhole ID.
For example, a pipe with an upstream manhole ID of 431-08X and a downstream manhole ID of 410-22X
would be:
43108X_41022X.
Should two pipes travel from one manhole to the same downstream manhole, the overflow pipe would be
distinguished from the original pipe by replacing both “X” with “O” for overflow.
In NO instance should the PipeID be altered so that downstream manhole ID is listed first and upstream
manhole ID listed after the underscore.
Utilization of this pipe identifier is extremely important as it assists staff link external data to GIS sewer
mainline layers to analyze and display information.
CCTV Field Log: A field log is to be used by the CCTV crew (and cleaning crew if contracted for both
clean and CCTV) to track daily work. This log should be returned with the completed fieldwork at the
end of the day (by CITY employees) or when data are delivered (by contractors). Logs shall specify the
date, number of persons working, and shall list the specific pipe segments cleaned or CCTV’d
(PipeID’s), time spent per pipe segment and equipment used.
Portable External Hard Drive or DVD Submittal: Upon submittal, DVD’s and external hard drives
shall become the property of the CITY.
Portable External Hard Drive or DVD Labels: All DVDs/External Hard Drives must be properly
identified with the project number and/or name (provided by project manager). DVD’s must be labeled
with the Pipe IDs of the inspections on the DVD.
3.4 DIGITAL DATA FORMAT & FILE NAMING
CCTV Software: Inspection software used by the contractor may be Wincam, POSM, or Granite XP.
Any other proposed software format must be approved by CITY project manager prior to any work being
354 of 891

--- page 355 ---
performed. CCTV contractors must provide the data in a format (unaltered PACP Version 6 or higher
database) that will permit uploading to the CITY’s computerized maintenance management system.
CCTV Video: The full CCTV video must be captured in MPEG format. Other formats may be accepted
but contractor must obtain approval from CITY project manager prior to any work being performed. In
addition to televising pipes, all manholes shall be panned with the video camera and visually inspected.
Video File Naming: Video files should be named in accordance with the following convention:
UpstreamNodeID-DownstreamNodeID-mmddyy-F/R.mpg
For Sanitary Sewer Pipe Segments:




UpstreamNodeID = Upstream MH# (no dashes)
DownstreamNodeID = Downstream MH# (no dashes)
mmddyy is the date of the inspection
F or R indicates whether the CCTV direction is upstream-to-downstream (F) or downstream-to-
upstream (R)
For example, the file name of a sewer pipe inspection conducted on August 13, 2011, starting at
upstream manhole 431-08X and extending to downstream manhole 410-22X would be:
43108X-41022X -081311-F.mpg
For Storm Sewer Pipe Segments:




UpstreamNodeID = Upstream MH# or Catchbasin (CB)# (no dashes)
DownstreamNodeID = Downstream MH# or CB# (no dashes)
mmddyy is the date of the inspection
F or R indicates whether the CCTV direction is upstream-to-downstream (F) or downstream-to-
upstream (R)
For example, the file name of a storm pipe inspection conducted on August 13, 2011, starting at
upstream storm catchabsin 12M-05 and extending to downstream storm manhole 12L-32 would be:
12M05-12L32-081311-F.mpg
If digital video files and data are to be copied onto a DVD, information shall be grouped in a logical
manner (e.g., by area of inspection).
Still Picture Captures: Still images shall be captured similarly for all observed defects with a severe
rating and/or as directed by CITY. In addition, additional still images should be captured every 100 feet
to illustrate the typical condition of the pipe. Still images should be in jpeg format at least 640 x 480
resolution and should utilize the file naming convention as described below.
Picture File Naming: Still picture files should be named in accordance with the following convention
where xxx is the footage location of the defect or observation (to the nearest foot).
UpstreamNodeID-DownstreamMH#-mmddyy-F/R-xxx.jpg
355 of 891

--- page 356 ---
For example, the file name for a still image at footage 123.4 for the example inspection described above
would be:
43108X-41022X-081311-F-123.jpg
If two or more images are captured at the same footage, add .a, b, etc. after the footage, e.g.:
43108X-41022X-081311-F-123a.jpg
43108X-41022X-081311-F-123b.jpg
Still image files are to be copied onto the same portable external hard drive or DVD as the corresponding
video and data files for the pipe segment.
3.5 SCREEN TEXT
Start-up Screen Text: The following information shall be provided as text on the video recording at the
start manhole prior to camera moving up the pipe. This text should be displayed for approximately 10
seconds or for the duration of the Start-up Narration, whichever is longer.











Upstream and downstream node numbers – or PipeID (GIS Field=FACILITYID)
Direction of camera travel
Location (GIS Field=UPMHLOC)
Date and time of day
Weather conditions
Pipe Diameter (GIS Field=DIAMETER)
Total length of pipe (as stated on plan sheets; or GIS Field=LENGTH)
Pipe material (at start of pipe)
Depth of upstream and downstream manholes
CCTV company (or City of San Mateo if taken by San Mateo crews)
Operator’s name (or CITY staff name if internal)
Running Screen Text: During CCTV, the running screen must include the following information. The
display of this information must in no way obscure the central focus of the pipe being inspected.


Running footage (distance traveled)
Upstream and downstream node numbers – or PipeID
End Screen Text. The end point of the inspected pipe segment should be indicated with screen text for
approximately 10 seconds. The ending screen text should indicate:



Ending footage – footage from video counter
Date and time of day
Upstream and downstream node numbers – or PipeID
3.6 NARRATION
Language and Background Noise: The CCTV video recordings are part of CITY
permanent records and should not contain inappropriate language, idle chatter, background noise, and
discussions between the operator and other crew members.
Start-up Narration: A voice narration must be included in the video recording. This narration must
include the following information at the beginning of each pipe segment:



Upstream and downstream MH#’s
Direction of camera travel
Depth of flow
356 of 891

--- page 357 ---




Date and time of day
Weather conditions
Pipe size
Pipe material (at start of pipe)
Running Narration: All observations, including lateral taps (service connections) along the length of the
pipe shall be narrated. Narration shall include a description of the observation and clock position, if
applicable.
End Narration: At the conclusion of the inspection of a pipe segment, the operator should state the final
CCTV footage and indicate that the CCTV of the pipe segment is complete. . If the survey is abandoned
before completion of the pipe segment, narration shall state the reason the survey was abandoned.
3.7 SPECIAL CCTV PROCEDURES: MANHOLE MARKING/UNCOVERING
Buried Manholes
If the CCTV crew encounters a buried manhole, they should notify CITY project manager immediately.
Every effort should be made by contractor to locate and uncover, or locate and mark the location of the
buried manhole. If unsuccessful in uncovering the manhole, CCTV may proceed through the buried
manhole, however, a new file should be started, treating the CCTV inspection as a separate pipe segment
from the initial pipe segment.
If it is not possible to CCTV through the manhole, and CCTV contractor has made every effort to uncover
the manhole, contractor shall notify CITY that the manhole needs to be exposed in order to complete the
inspection. After contractor has marked the location of the manhole, CITY project manager will identify
whether contractor or CITY crews shall uncover the manhole.
SECTION 4 – STANDARDIZED CCTV CODES
This section covers the information and standard formats and codes required for completion of the CCTV.
This manual is intended for use as a complement to NASSCO Standards for sewer mainline, sewer lateral
and sewer manhole condition assessment. When in doubt, refer to most recent NASSCO PACP binder.
4.1 GENERAL GUIDELINES
The following guidelines must be followed when completing the header section of the CCTV form:

If the CCTV extends through a manhole and spans more than one pipe segment, a new header
form must be completed at the start of each subsequent pipe segment.

If a reverse set-up is required because the CCTV in the downstream direction could not be
completed, a new header form must be completed at the start of the reverse set-up CCTV. (In NO
instance should the PipeID be altered so that downstream manhole ID is listed first and upstream
manhole ID listed after the underscore).
4.2 REQUIRED HEADER INFORMATION
The header information contains pertinent data about the individual pipe being inspected. The header
data entry is completed in the field to provide as much information as possible about the inspection work.
Table 4.2-1 lists required header information for each CCTV inspection and provides an explanation of
appropriate responses to each item expected by the CITY.
Much of this information is stored in the CITY’s GIS sewer layers. Upload of San Mateo’s GIS layers
357 of 891

--- page 358 ---
will pre-populate much of this information. Adjustments to fields may be requested by the CITY at the
start of the project once the initial data has been reviewed.
Table 4.2-1
CCTV HEADER INFORMATION
FIELD #
TITLE
ENTRY/COMMENTS
1
Surveyor’s Name (CCTV
Operator’s Name)
First and Last Name
1a
2
Certificate Number
System Owner
Surveyor’s NASSCO Certificate #
“CITY OF SAN MATEO”
GIS Field = OWNER
3
4
Survey Customer
Drainage Area
“Engineering” or “Sewer Maintenance” – based on which
Division is requesting the CCTV
The “Cleaning Area” as identified for each pipe
Example: ”A1a”
GIS Field = CLEANA
5
Sheet Number
If using hardcopy sheets for hand-recording – OR – Plan
Sheet number on which the pipe is located.
6
7
P.O. Number
Purchase Order # provided by project manager.
Pipe Segment Reference
PipeID Example: 43108X_41022X
GIS Field = FACILITYID
8
9
Date of Survey
YYYYMMDD
i.e. 13:30
Military Time – Beginning of
Survey
10
Street Name and Number of
Upstream Manhole
GIS Field = UPMHLOC
10a
11
City Name
Most often “SAN MATEO”
Further Location Details
Upstream Manhole Number
Landmarks near MH. Example: near fence
12
Example 132-12X
GIS Field = UPSMH
13
14
15
16
Upstream Rim to Invert
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
Upstream Grade to Invert
Upstream Rim to Grade
Downstream Manhole Number
Example 132-13X
GIS Field = DWNMH
7
Downstream Rim to Invert
Downstream Grade to invert
Downstream Rim to Grade
Use of Sewer
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
Measure in field. Feet + tenths of foot.
18
19
20
Sewer=SS Forcemain=FM Storm=SW
GIS Field = USE_
21
22
Direction of Survey
Flow Control
Upstream=U Downstream=D
Not Controlled=N Plugged=P Bypassed=B
De-watered using Jet=D Lift Station=L
358 of 891

--- page 359 ---
23
Size 1 (Diameter)
Diameter of pipe
GIS Field = DIAMETER
24
25
Size 2 (Width)
Shape
Mandatory use if pipe is not circular
Most Often Circular=C
GIS Field = SSML_SHAPE
28
29
Pipe Joint Length
Most common length of pipe segments in run
Total Length of Pipe
Length Stated on Plan Sheets or:
GIS Field = LENGTH
30
31
32
33
34
Total Length Surveyed
Year Constructed
Year Renewed
Actual length of pipe from footage counter
GIS Field = INSTALLDT YYYY
If known
Tape/Media Number
Purpose of Survey
If using multiple DVD’s
For CCTV contracts the cover an entire sewer basin, use “G”
Capital Improvement Program Assessment. Otherwise, refer
to Table 4.2-2 and ask project manager which code to use.
35
36
Sewer Category
Pre-Cleaning
This will become mandatory after CITY defines the criticality
for each pipe and provides this in the GIS.
J=Jetting, H=Heavy/Mechanical Cleaning
N=No Pre-cleaning, Z=Unknown
For CCTV contracts the cover an entire sewer basin, this
shall be J or H.
36a
37
Date Pre-Cleaned
Weather
Mandatory for CCTV Contracts that require pre-cleaning.
Mandatory to enter a PACP weather code for weather at
time of inspection
38
39
Location Code
Please refer to Table 4.2-3 for description of CITY utilization
of NASSCO codes.
Additional Information
Use as necessary. Mandatory to use if CCTV confirms
inaccurate data in CITY GIS.
40
41
Work Order Number
Project
Provided by project manager if applicable.
Name of CCTV project – will be provided by project
manager.
42
Pressure Value
Minimum testing pressure specified/used during joint or
lateral testing.
359 of 891

--- page 360 ---
Tables 4.2-2 describes the CITY utilization of the NASSCO “Purpose of Survey” code. Contractor shall
ensure the proper Purpose of Survey code is utilized. Project manager shall identify this code at pre-
construction meetings or prior to start work.
Table 4.2-2
PURPOSE OF SURVEY
CODE
DESCRIPTION
CITY CODE DESCRIPTION
A
Maintenance Related
Use “A” when CCTV is performed to identify
maintenance needs or evaluate effectiveness of
maintenance.
B
C
Infiltration & Inflow (I&I)
Investigation
Use “B” when CCTV is performed specifically to see
where and how much I&I may be entering or affecting a
pipe.
Use “C” after a repair has been performed. Most repair
contracts require post-repair survey. Follow all
requirements for CCTV of entire length of pipe.
Post-Rehabilitation Survey
D
E
F
Pre-Rehabilitation Survey
Pre-Acceptance of New Sewers
Routine Assessment
Use “D” when CCTV is performed prior to repair while
confirming repair location and extent.
Use “E” when CCTV is performed on brand new sewers
as part of CITY acceptance procedures.
Use “F” for CCTV is requested by CITY for storm assets
or CCTV not involving a large sewer basin or any other
more appropriate codes.
G
H
V
Z
Capital Improvement Program
(CIP) Assessment
Use “G” for large sewer basin CCTV projects. This
CCTV is used specifically for developing the next years’
sewer CIP rehabilitation project.
Resurvey for Any Reason
Reversal
Use “H” if directed by CITY to re-survey a line. Enter the
original project name and reason for re-survey in the
Additional Information Header field.
This code should not be used unless directed to by
project manager. Upstream and Downstream directional
identifiers suffice.
Not Known
This code should not be used unless directed to by
project manager.
360 of 891

--- page 361 ---
Tables 4.2-3 describes the CITY utilization of the NASSCO “Location” code. Contractor shall ensure the
proper Location Code is utilized for each pipe.
Table 4.2-3
LOCATION CODE – Of sewer pipe being surveyed. (Not necessarily the same location as the start
node)
CODE
DESCRIPTION
CITY CODE DESCRIPTION
A
Main Highway - Urban
The main highways in San Mateo are Hwy 101 and Hwy92. If a
pipe repair would impact use of either of these highways, then
use “A”.
B
C
Main Highway - Suburban 
For NASSCO, main suburban highways are those roads that
heavy good vehicles. Refer to Table 4.2-3a, San Mateo’s Truck
Routes. Use “B” for pipes underneath these roadways.
Light Highway
For NASSCO, light highway streets are residential streets. Use
“C” for pipes underneath any San Mateo roadways outside of
those listed above.
D
E
Easement / Right-of-Way
Woods
For CCTV projects, use “D” for pipes that have the majority of
their length within a private property easement.
In San Mateo, the only pipes that would be assigned code “E”
would be the sewer mainlines running through Laurelwood
Park.
F
Sidewalk
Some sewer pipes run along and underneath a sidewalk. “F”
can be used in those situations.
G
H
I
Parking Lot
Alley
If the majority of the sewer pipe resides underneath a parking
lot, use “G”.
Use “H” for any pipes located in public or private alleyways in
San Mateo.
This code would be used in very rare situations. Confirm with
project manager prior to use.
Ditch
J
Building
Creek
Use “J” only in the rare instance that the majority of a pipe runs
underneath a building.
K
If a pipe repair would affect a waterway, use location code “K.”
for example, the sewer pipes that run alongside the 19th Ave
Channel east of Hwy 101 highways would have location code
“K”.
L
Railway
Use “L” for the handful of sewer pipes in San Mateo that cross
underneath the railway. Also use “L” for sewer pipes adjacent
to the railway that are also on railway property (parcels
between S El Camino and Pacific Blvd just north and south of
the 42nd Ave underpass).
M
Y
Airport
Yard
There are no airports in San Mateo.
San Mateo prefers the use of location code “D” for sewers in
backyard easements. If no easement exists, “Y” may be used.
Z
Other
If “Z” is used, provide details in the Additional Comments field.
NOTE: For proper use of the Location Code “B”, please refer to this list of truck routes (next page) and/or
obtain a Truck Routes Map from a project manager. Identifying sewers underneath heavily used roads
will assist in determining the criticality for sewer repairs.
361 of 891

--- page 362 ---
Table 4.2-3.a
CITY OF SAN MATEO TRUCK ROUTES
US 101 (Bayshore Freeway)
State Route 82 (El Camino Real)
State Route 92 (J. Arthur Younger Freeway)
2nd Avenue between South Humboldt Street and North Amphlett Boulevard
East 3rd Avenue (J. Hart Clinton) from the easterly city limits to US 101 (between the hours of
eight-thirty a.m. to four-thirty p.m. eastbound)
East 3rd Avenue between US 101 and South Claremont Street
East 4th Avenue between US 101 and South Claremont Street
9th Avenue between El Camino Real and South Claremont Street
19th Avenue between South Delaware Street and Fashion Island Boulevard
East 25th Avenue between El Camino Real and South Delaware Street
28th Avenue between Edison Street and El Camino Real
37th Avenue between El Camino Real and Edison Street
Bridgepointe Parkway between Baker Way and Bridgepointe Circle
South Claremont Street between 3rd Avenue and 9th Avenue
Concar Drive between Westbound SR 92 Ramps and Grant Street
South Delaware Street between Garvey Way and 25th Avenue
Edison Street between 28th Avenue and the Hillsdale Shopping Center
Fashion Island Boulevard between 19th Avenue and Baker Way
Franklin Parkway between US 101 and Saratoga Drive
East Hillsdale Boulevard between El Camino Real and US 101
East Hillsdale Boulevard between US 101 and easterly city limit
South Humboldt Street between 2nd Avenue and 4th Avenue
Kehoe Avenue between Northbound US 101 Ramps and South Norfolk Street (between the
hours of six a.m. to six p.m. Monday through Friday)
Mariner’s Island Boulevard between Eastbound SR 92 Ramps and Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street between East 3rd Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard (between the hours
of six a.m. to six p.m. Monday through Friday)
The southerly side of Peninsula Avenue, between Bayshore Freeway and El Camino Real
East Poplar Avenue between Southbound US 101 Ramps and Amphlett Boulevard Street
Saratoga Drive between Franklin Parkway and East Hillsdale Boulevard
4.3 CAMERA START AND END CODES
The location at which the camera footage counter is set to 0.00 should be at the start of the pipe at the
manhole or access point wall. Two codes shall always be entered at the start point:
1) the access point code along with the M ID# entered into the Remarks field, and
2) the water level code with the appropriate percentage for height of water in Value 1
field (to nearest 5%).
The point where the camera footage counter is stopped is at the end of the pipe at the (typically
downstream) manhole or access point wall. Two codes shall always be entered at the end point:
1) the access point code along with the MH ID# entered into the Remarks field, and
362 of 891

--- page 363 ---
2) the water level code with the appropriate percentage for height of water in Value 1 field (to
nearest 5%).
4.4 CONTINUOUS DEFECTS
Contractor will follow NASSCO guidelines for continuous defects. If the camera goes under water, it
cannot be assumed that the defect continues. The defect must be closed out where the camera first goes
into the water.
4.5 – CCTV OBSERVATION CODES
The City uses NASSCO Version 6 or higher standard pipe observation codes.
363 of 891

--- page 364 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O & M
Program APPENDIX 4.2
Sewer Pipe Cleaning
Standard Operating Procedures
(SOPs)
364 of 891

--- page 365 ---
City of San Mateo
CODE OF SAFE PRACTICES
Table of Contents
A
Air Compressor and Pressure Vessel Safety
Air Gun Nozzle Safety
Air Rake and Vacuum Super Blower
Arrow Board, Trailer Mounted
Automatic External Defibrillators
B
C
Backhoe
Barbeque
Blower, Backpack Operator
Boom Truck
Cart and Hand Truck Safety
Chain and Sling Safety
Chip Hammering and Jack Hammering
Compressed Air, Shop Safety
Crack Sealing, Roadways
D
Drill Press
Drill, Cord Drill
Drill, Cordless
Dump Truck
E
F
Engine Hoist – Lift
Facilities and Operations Staff
Fire Extinguishers – Portable
Floor Jack, 3 Ton
Forklift
Front End Loader, Tractor Loader
G
Gas Powered String Trimmer and Brush Cutter Safety
Generator – Portable Electrical (Trailer Mounted)
Generator – Portable Gasoline
Grinders – Bench, Floor, and Hand
365 of 891

--- page 366 ---
H
P
Hedge Clipper (Gasoline Powered)
Painting and Striping Units
Pavement Grinder
Pipe Threading Machine
Portable Welding, Arc
Pressure Washer Safety
Propane Tank Handling and Use
R
S
Roller Compactor
Saw – Chain Saw
Saw – Chop Saw Cut-off Safety
Saw – Concrete Saw
Saw – Reciprocating Saw
Spill Response Materials SPCC
Street Sweeper
Stump Grinder
V
Vacuum Truck (Vac-Con)
Vibrating Soil Tamper Compactor
W
Welding - Portable Oxygen and Acetylene
Welding – Portable Electric
Wheel Barrows
Wood Chippers
Working Near Vehicular Traffic
366 of 891

--- page 367 ---
City of San Mateo
Code of Safe Practice
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Initial date:
Revised date:
Questions or comments regarding
this Code of Safe Practice should
be directed to the Safety Director.
Vacuum Truck (Vac-Con)
SAFE PRATICE RULES
1. Pre-operational equipment (including rental equipment). Be familiar with
operator’s manual.
2. Examine for worn or frayed hoses and lines. Check valves and hose
connections for signs of leakage.
3. When swinging boom, change direction slowly.
4. Only one person operates the boom and one-person signals and assists the
operator.
5. When positioning truck to work, be extra cautious of personnel and other
equipment.
6. Properly secure all equipment and miscellaneous items before leaving yard or
job site.
7. Do not load dump body beyond rated capacity.
8. Be aware of possible load surge when turning or braking.
9. Check to see that tailgate is properly secured after dumping.
10.Use safety stand when working under raised dump body.
11.Keep cab clean.
12.Use hearing protection.
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
Protection Area
PPE Required
Wear safety glasses with side shields or goggles.
Eye
Face
Hand
Head
Foot
Body
Work gloves.
Hardhat.
Safety steel or composite toe safety shoes or boots.
Proper protective clothing.
Page 1 of 2
367 of 891

--- page 368 ---
Respiratory
Hearing
N95 dust mask when appropriate.
Wear earplugs or earmuffs as necessary.
I,
(print name) have read and understand
the safe work practices listed above and will operate the designated machine in accordance
with them, the manufacture’s operating instructions and the supervisor’s instructions.
Signature:
Date:
DISCLAIMER
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter
covered. Although all of the material contained herein was carefully selected and reviewed, company claims no
liability for its accuracy and specifically disclaims any warranty, real or implied, as to its accuracy. The
parties using this information do so at their own risk and specifically hold company harmless from anyone
claiming damage by using the above referenced material.
Page 2 of 2
368 of 891

--- page 369 ---
City of San Mateo
Code of Safe Practice
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Initial date:
Revised date:
Questions or comments regarding
this Code of Safe Practice should
be directed to the Safety Director.
Working Near Vehicular Traffic
 Workers (on foot) exposed to vehicular traffic must wear orange flagging
garments.
 Workers on foot shall not wear any type of headgear that can interfere with
hearing back up alarms, warnings, etc.
 When hazards to workers exist because of vehicular traffic, use traffic
controls in conformance with the State’s Department of Transportation,
“Manual of Traffic Control.” Additionally, controls such as detours, warning
signs, or barricades shall be used when necessary.
 Flagmen shall be required where the above controls are ineffective.
 Wherever mobile equipment operation encroaches upon a public
thoroughfare, a system of traffic controls must be used.
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
Protection Area
Eye
PPE Required
Wear safety glasses with side shields or goggles.
Face
Hand
Work gloves.
Head
Hardhat.
Foot
Safety steel or composite toe safety shoes or boots.
Proper highly reflective garment (vest or jacket).
N95 dust mask when appropriate.
Wear earplugs or earmuffs as necessary.
Body
Respiratory
Hearing
I,
(print name) have read and understand
the safe work practices listed above and will operate the designated machine in accordance
with them, the manufacture’s operating instructions and the supervisor’s instructions.
Signature:
Date:
Page 1 of 2
369 of 891

--- page 370 ---
DISCLAIMER
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter
covered. Although all of the material contained herein was carefully selected and reviewed, company claims no
liability for its accuracy and specifically disclaims any warranty, real or implied, as to its accuracy. The
parties using this information do so at their own risk and specifically hold company harmless from anyone
claiming damage by using the above referenced material.
Page 2 of 2
370 of 891

--- page 371 ---
City of San Mateo
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES DIVISION
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
Table of Contents
1.
DAILY LOGS
A. Filling Out Daily Logs
B. Leadworker Review of Daily Logs
C. Request from Supervisor Forms
2.
SANITARY SEWER OVERFLOW RESPONSE & REPORTING
PROCEDURES
A. Sanitary Sewer Overflow Field Response Procedure Summary
B. Sanitary Sewer Overflow Reporting Procedure Summary
C. SSO Fax Form to RWQCB
D. Emergency Overflow Response Plan (OERP)
3.
4.
GENERAL SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
A. General Safety Requirements
B. Sanitary Sewer Manhole Monitoring Procedures
UTILITY VEHICLE PRE-TRIP & OPERATING PROCEDURES
A. Utility 3 – T59 Vac-con
B. Utility 4 – L86 – Pump Truck with Boom
C. Utility 5 – Emergency Response Truck
D. Utility 6 - T-58 Vac-con
E. Utility 8 – T60 Vactor
5.
SEWER HYDRO CLEANING PROCEDURES
SEWER MECHANICAL CLEANING PROCEDURES
CONFINED SPACE PROCEDURES
CCTV / PIPEHUNTER JETEYE CAMERA SYSTEM
SCOUT LINE LOCATOR
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
T57 – RODDER
USA MARKING PROCEDURES
EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION PACKET
371 of 891

--- page 372 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
HYDRO CLEANING SEWERS

372 of 891


--- page 373 ---
FLUSHER CONTROL PANEL AND DESCRIPTION

Water tank sight gauge——y

Water pressure gauge Tachometer

Engine Controls: Key start,and choke with ; |
engine oil and temperature gauges for auxiliary Le
engine machines. (\ >)

Throttle: Vernier type throttle with emergency Engine oil and temperature |
shut down button. Rotate counter clockwise to gauges (aux engine only)
increase power, clockwise to reduce. Use ® K
emergency stop button ONLY if rapid shut }

down is required. |

Hyd. Oil pressure gauge

Tachometer: Shows engine rpms during we E

operation. 3-way water control valve Hour meter —> ((0250

Hour Meter: Displays number of operating
hours on pump or engine. Used for scheduling
recommended maintenance and service.

€
@< Low vast warning light

Reel speed control Pump clutch —>

Water Pressure Gauge: Shows water
pressure level in system during operation.

Hydraulic Oil Pressure Gauge: Shows _ hoke—->(") ® a pee
amount of hydraulic oil pressure being applied Reel direction contro}

° Washdown contol valve
to hose reel during pull back.

3-way Water Control Valve: Directs water to Wastdédn hode

the sewer hose reel or recirculation mode. Emergency stop button connection ——» | \

Reel Direction Control: Operates the hose reel in forward or reverse modes. Pushing down rotate the
reel forward, pushing up rotates the reel in reverse.

Reel Speed Control: Sets reel speed at desired rate of nozzle travel speed.

Pump Clutch: Engages/disengages water pump from power source.

Low Water Warning Light: Displays red when water level is less than 3 minutes of operating time.
Water Tank Sight Gauge: Shows water level of water tank during operation.

Washdown Hose Connection: Quick disconnect fitting for the washdown hose and gun.

Washdown Control Valve: Engages/disengages the washdown gun system.

© - 1987 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page Z

373 of 891


--- page 374 ---
NOZZLE ANGLES AND EFFECTS

Nozzles use water volume and pressure to accomplish two things at once, climb the pipe and clean it.
The angles used in the nozzle determine the amount of thrust that is developed and the effect of the
cleaning jets on the pipe.

Nozzle cleaning jets provide a strong stream of water to remove or loosen materials. The water jets
diffuse rapidly once they clear the nozzle orifice, The greater the distance between the nozzle and the
pipe walls, the less effective the cleaning force will be.

Low angled nozzles develop the most thrust and travel quickly up the pipe. The effectiveness of their
cleaning jets, however, is limited due to the distance the water jet must travel to reach the pipe walls.

High angled nozzles develop less thrust, traveling up the pipe slower. The effectiveness of their
cleaning jets is increased as the distance from the nozzle to the pipe wall is less.

15° angle, note the distance between nozzle and pipe crown for high
thrust and low cleaning power. This angle commonly used for stoppages.

35° angle, note shorter distance to pipe crown for better cleaning with a
little less thrust. This nozzle angle is most commonly used for P/M work.

45° angle, note short distance to pipe crown for best cleaning but little
thrust developed. This angle used for grease and detergent build up.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 4

374 of 891


--- page 375 ---
CLEANING METHOD FOR GREASE REMOVAL

Grease deposits begin at the crown of the pipe and build down until the flow is restricted to a point
that stoppages frequently occur. Understanding grease deposits is important to effective removal.
Grease consists of hot waste oils from commercial and residential users. Tallow, or animal fats, can
mix with oil deposits, creating a heavy sludge. This sludge is deposited on pipe surfaces as water
cools it and moves it down stream from the source. Grease problems are common in service areas
supporting commercial or industrial food preparation or processing.

The difficulty with grease removal is determined by the thickness of the deposit, the hardness of the
deposit, and the length of the deposit area. It can be one thing to dislodge the grease deposits, it can
be another to avoid stopping the flow downstream as the pieces of dislodged grease become stuck.

1. Determine the area affected by the grease deposit. If possible, begin cleaning operations from
the first section showing little or no evidence of grease build up. This will help keep down
the possibility of dislodged grease from being caught downstream.

vs In known grease areas, a grease nozzle should be used to provide the proper cleaning power.
These nozzles are commonly large bore nozzles providing maximum water flow to provide
strong removal jets and supply enough water to keep dislodged materials in suspension.

3, Set up the hose toward the upstream manhole. In heavy grease removal operation, a lower
manhole roller is recommended over the use of a slipper guide. Slipper guides tend to block
the downstream flow, allowing grease deposits to collect in them, stopping the flow. Lower
roller assemblies to not block the invert and allow free movement of water and materials. If
a slipper guide is used, check the flow rate in the pipe continuously. If a drop in the flow rate
is seen, pull the slipper guide up the hose to relieve the grease build up.

4. Move the nozzle slowly up the line, returning it slowly under pressure. Observation of the
flow will show the effect the nozzle is having. After a couple of passes, the water should be
clear unless harder layers are present.

5. Grease observed in the pipe during cleaning will help determine what the deposit thickness
is. Recent layers of grease will tum the downstream flow into a light brown color, much like
adding cream to coffee. Layers beginning the hardening process will show as small clumps
or bits in the flow. Harder layers typically show as curved sections of grease in the shape of
the pipe itself and be accompanied by strong odors. Extremely hard layers will generally
appear as ‘logs’, long and hard to break up as they pass by. These logs usually indicate a
serious build up the flusher may or may not be able to effectively remove.

6. As explained in the drawing, grease can harden to a point where flushing machines will have
difficulty in removing it. In these instances, a Rodding machine may have to be used to cut
the hardened grease from the pipe walls in manageable pieces. Once removed, flushers can
be scheduled on a regular frequency to remove recent, soft deposits before they can build into
difficult problems.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 6

375 of 891


--- page 376 ---
CLEANING METHOD FOR SAND REMOVAL

Sand in collection systems can be a variety of different consistencies from loose earth and dirt, to bank
run with rocks, to very fine beach sand. With some minor differences, the removal methods remain the
same with all types of sand or earth debris.

One of the most common mishaps in sand removal is trying to remove too much at one time and getting
the nozzle or the sewer hose stuck in the debris, sometimes referred to as compacting. Compacting
occurs when the nozzle is sent too far up the pipe to remove all the material between the nozzle and the
manhole. Typically, the nozzle will build material behind it as it is pulled back, in some instances causing
a wall of material to build downstream. Usually the nozzle can pull clear of the debris pile, however, if
the material can pack tightly around the hose, it will prevent the nozzle from pulling out. To avoid
potential compaction, and the resulting stoppages that can be caused by this, some basic steps can be
taken to reduce the opportunity for this to occur.

1. Always remove the material from the downstream access, A method for removing the debris,
such as a spoon shovel, handi-clam, or air conveyance, should be available to prevent the material
from going downstream and creating problems.

2. Use a sand trap in the downstream invert to prevent large amounts of debris from getting past the
access. This device will stop most material, causing to fall out of suspension and allow the water
to flow by.

3. Using the proper nozzle can usually be determined by the size of the line. In small lines. of 6" -

10", a combination sand/grease nozzle may be effective. In medium to large size lines of 12" -
24", either a sled or football type sand nozzle should be used. In larger lines these same nozzles
should also be used, however, as the line size increases, the effectiveness of hydraulic cleaners is
diminished and bucket machines may have to be used.

4. Once set up in the pipe with the proper nozzle and hose protection, use the rule of 10's. Travel
approximately 10' up the pipe and return to the manhole. Examine the amount of material that is
pulled out to determine how far the nozzle can safely travel. Ifa large amount returns, clean the
same 10' section a few times to clear it, then push another 10! beyond to remove the next leg.
Though this may take some additional time, the chance of compaction is reduced and the debris
will be more easily controlled.

5. Once enough material has gathered in the manhole, stop operation of the nozzle unti! the materials
can be removed. Under no circumstances should an operator be in the manhole when the flusher
nozzle is working, even if it is quite a distance from the manhole. An unexpected release of water

in the pipe can quickly fill the manhole, or airborne rocks, razors, and other objects can cause
injuries.

6. Using this method, continue the operation until the pipe is cleared. It is not uncommon to need
several tanks of water in a given line section. If a useable hydrant is nearby, a long length of hose
may be used to trickle feed the tank, keeping the water at the same level while working. If using a
slipper guide, be sure materials are shaken out regularly to avoid compaction in the guide itself

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 8

376 of 891


--- page 377 ---
CLEANING METHOD FOR STOPPAGE REMOVAL

Stoppages can be caused by a wide variety of circumstances from hydraulic bottle necks in the. system
to physical objects such as cans or tires. The flushing machine can be used to relieve most stoppages
resulting from grease, debris deposits, or soft solids like rags and papers. In some instances, a
rodding machine may be needed to remove roots or foreign objects from the pipe that flushing
machines cannot easily remove,

As a caution when using flushing machines to relieve stoppages, always operate the flusher from the
downstream, dry manhole. Never attempt to operate from a surcharged manhole. In trying to place
the nozzle in the invert of a surcharged manhole, it is difficult to determine if the nozzle is in the pipe.
When the nozzle is put under pressure it can exit the manhole without warning surprisingly fast,
striking and/or penetrating anything in it’s path, including the operator, and can cause serious injury.

If forced to operate from a surcharged manhole, use long poled tools to insure the nozzle is in the
pipe. Apply minimum pressure of approximately 500 psi, use the long tool to feel if the nozzle is
running up the pipe or up the side of the manhole. This tool may also keep the hose on the pipe floor,
preventing the nozzle from escaping. Again, this is a dangerous practice, and is not recommended.
Most serious injuries associated with flushing machines are related to surcharged manhole operation.

1, Determine the nearest dry manhole from the stoppage. Set up for stoppage removal should
be done from this manhole.

2. A penetrator nozzle should be used to clear the line. This nozzle has a small head designed
to penetrate the material and create an ever widening hole though it.

3. Set up the sewer hose in the pipe, using the proper hose protection and/or easement rollers.
Send the nozzle up the line until the upstream travel stops, indicating the blockage has been
reached.

4. Use the reel controls to back the nozzle up and return to the mass repeatedly. If this fails to

relieve the blockage, a common practice is to physically hold the hose, using gloves for:
protection, pull the nozzle back and abruptly let go, ramming the debris.

5. If the stoppage should clear before water nuns out in the water tank. If the blockage remains,
refill and return, or a Rodding machine may want to be considered. The nozzle may be trying
to move a large rock or other physical object from an invert opening, and lacks the strength
necessary to move it against the head pressure of the water backed up in the pipe system. The
Rodding machine is best designed to provide the strength needed to resolve these blockages.

6. After the stoppage is relieved, the pipe should be cleaned using the proper nozzle to remove
any additional materials that caused the problem. Once cleaned, the line should be proofed
with a proofing tool to be sure the nozzle is not passing under or around another potential
stoppage. Document this proofing test to limit future liability claims.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 10

377 of 891


--- page 378 ---
HYDRAULIC ROOT CUTTER OPERATION

Flushing machines can utilize hydraulically powered root cutters to remove hardened grease and roots
from sewer lines. Hydraulic root cutters are designed to propel a skid mounted motor up the pipe
while turning a tool at the front end. This tool can be an effective method for material removal,
however, some caution is advised in operation.

Avoid using standard skid mounted cutters in pipes with alignment problems such as dropped pipe
joints. The tool can become lodged in the dropped section and force excavation to be removed.
Some skid assemblies can accommodate dropped joints up to approximately 3", and should be used
in known problem lines, or when faced with an unknown line condition. Be sure the machine footage
meter is operating properly and is reset during use to locate the tool if it becomes stuck.

Use the proper sized skid for the tool being used. Undersized skids will cause opposite end of the
cutter to bounce around in the pipe, potentially causing damage to the pipe and/or cutter.

Use the proper saw blade when cutting roots. Use balanced blades to prevent front bearing wear.
Though interchangeable with Rodding machine saw blades, not every blade will withstand the
tremendous forces generated by the cutter. Use saw blades specifically designed for use on hydraulic
root cutters. Never attempt to handle the operating tool once the cutter is connected to the hose.

L. When removing roots, it is often best to use a size smaller root saw than the diameter of the
pipe to do the initial cutting pass. The cutter can be gaffed up at the far manhole, or returned
to the cleaner to attach a pipe size root saw and skids for the final pass.

A Operate the tool slowly up the line. Due to the rotational speed of the blade, roots can be
thrown against the sides of the pipe, avoiding the cutting teeth. Slow operation allows the
tool to work much more effectively. Operating speed should be a minimum of half that used
with nozzles.

3. When engaging root masses, ease the cutter in and out of the mass using the hose reel
controls. Carefully watch the sewer hose during use. If the hose begins to twist, it indicates
the saw is stuck in the materials, forcing the motor to turn. Withdraw the hose to avoid hose
damage at in the pipe, and free the blade.

4. Use finishing tools, like three blade cutters, to scour the pipe walls after root cutting. Root
. saw blades will leave a small portion of roots in the pipe. The three blade cutter scours the
pipe walls to cut the remaining roots or root ends. This tool requires a very slow travel speed
to get these remaining roots, at approximately 2/3 of the speed the cutter was operated at.

5. For grease removal, use the three blade cutter. Root saw blades become ineffective when
clogged with grease. The three blade cutter provides a long, single edged cutting tool that
with shave off layers of grease. Use a small tool on the initial pass, either gaffing up the tool
at the far manhole or returning it to the cleaner to put a pipe sized tool and skids on. Use a
very slow travel speed to be sure the deposit is broken up enough to pass downstream.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 12

378 of 891


--- page 379 ---
PURGED PLUMBING

Purged plumbing, commonly referred to as “blown toilets", is an increasing problem for may.
agencies. Recent studies of this nuisance problem show there can be several contributing factors.
Increased water pressures used in flushing equipment in recent years, more frequent line cleaning
required by preventive maintenance programs, line obstructions, and structure plumbing can all
contribute to the phenomenon.

Purged plumbing is the result of air volume moving in the pipe during cleaning operations. Most
often this can be felt as a blast of air from the manhole when the cleaning nozzle is working. As
the nozzle moves up the line, nozzle jets create high pressure air behind the nozzle. This is
referred to as positive air pressure. Air in front of the nozzle is pulled downstream. This is
referred to as negative air pressure.

The negative air pressure moving down the pipe will try to pull air from the source of least
resistance. Normally this air is pulled from the line itself, manhole chambers, and/or vents in the
manhole lids. If the pipe is obstructed with water flow, root or grease build up, or has a dip
sealed with water, the cubic foot space available for air movement is reduced or eliminated. The
negative air is then pulled from service connections.

When air is pulled from service connections the house vent will usually allow air to move freely.
Depending on the size of this vent, obstructions that may be present, and the complexity of the

structure plumbing, the air may pull freely or may try to pull water from the traps. Which traps
are affected depends on which trap offers the path of least resistance to the negative pressure.

In toilets, water is drawn from the trap as negative air forms a vacuum. Water is drawn down
from the bowl until it reaches a level that air can move through the trap, venting air to relieve the
negative pressure. Once the nozzle is past the service connection, the water settles and remains at
low level in the bowl and trap, barely sealing the trap.

When the nozzle is pulled back, positive air is now pushed downstream. The same conditions that
caused negative air pressure to pull water from traps'will cause positive air to be pushed up the
service connection. The positive air pressure builds behind the small amount of water in the trap.
This pressure builds to a point it can move the water, and will either push back the water seal and
vent, or can eject water from the trap as the air escapes. In some cases this can be dramatic,
causing water to reach the ceiling.

Research has shown that to help avoid purged plumbing, the best solution is a multiple one. First,
in areas that there are known occurrences of this, remove the upstream manhole to help allow
more air flow in the line. This alone will not solve the problem, however, it will help to reduce
the volume of air that is drawn from service connections. You should be sure there are no crown
obstructions that inhibit this air flow, and if so, they should be removed with equipment designed
to cut roots and hardened grease. Use high angled nozzles, or vortex nozzles that break the
pressure cone of air in the pipe. If by taking these preventive steps the problem persists, video
inspection of the main line and/or service vent may be needed to find physical flaws.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 14

379 of 891


--- page 380 ---
PURGED PLUMBING RESULTS

Typically, purged plumbing does not attect toilets as often as other “P” traps ina building.
Basement or first floor traps in sinks and showers will often provide air relief for the rest.of the
building. Low flush toilets, and other modern designs may have a low enough trap to be.the
first to evacuate water. The results of this range from minor surging to impressive spray that
can reach the ceiling.

As negative pressure from the nozzle pulls air from service
connections, the vent system may be too small in diameter,
clogged, or not properly installed, causing a vacuum that can
pull water down in the toilet.

Negative air pressure pulls water down in the trap |

Water will pull down until the surface level breaks
contact with the top ofthe trap. At this point the vacuum
is relieved, and some water returns to the bowl, barely
covering the top of the trap.

Negative air pressure relieved when
water yeilds to allow air to vent

On the return pass, positive pressure from the nozzle forces
air back into the service connection. If the vent work cannot
accept the volume of air, it seeks the path of least resistance.
Aur builds pressure until the water in the toilet can be forced
from the trap.

Depending on the amount of water in the trap, and the
amount of air pressure, the air can either vent easily, or will
explode the water from the trap.

LW. Positive air builds pressure bhind water in trap, eventually
causing the water to move

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 16

380 of 891


--- page 381 ---
10.

TOP TEN LIST OF FLUSHER DO’S AND DON’TS

Always be aware of traffic and safety concerns. When setting up on the street use cones to define
the work area. Set the cones out at least 20' out from the machine to allow the sewer hose to be
laid out to change nozzles, skids, or other tools. Always wear gloves when handling the hose,
especially when the hose is under load to protect hands from acids and other agents that may be
present.

Inspect the sewer hose regularly. Do not allow use of a hose that has deep cuts in the jacket, or
sections of hose jacket that are peeling off. Watch all coupling and splice fittings for bubbles in
the jacket indicating water is getting between the inner core and outer jacket. Avoid using hose
with many in-line splice connections for extended periods before replacing.

Do not use the sewer hose without a slipper guide or lower manhole roller to avoid damage.
Always use the proper easement roller, both at the remote manhole, and on the machine to ease
the stress placed on the hose.

When performing routine cleaning, use little pressure to jet up the line, when returning turn the
pressure up a little to help the scouring action. Most 8 - 12" pipes can be easily cleaned at
approximately 1200 - 1500 PSI. For tough problems such as hardened grease or large amounts of
debris, a full 2000 PSI may be needed.

Do not attempt to clear a blockage from the upstream, full manhole. Serious injury can result if
the nozzle is not in the pipe and exits the manhole unexpectedly under pressure.

When moving large amounts of static debris, use short distances forward and bring the nozzle
back to the manhole. Trying to pull too much material can bury the hose and nozzle, making it
difficult, if not impossible, to remove, and can cause a blockage.

Under no circumstances should anyone be in the manhole when the flusher is in operation.
Serious injury can result if a blockage is relieved upstream and floods the manhole, or from
airborne debris such as small rocks and razor blades thrown up by the force of the nozzle.

Use the proper tool for the job. Understand how each nozzle in the inventory works, and when it
should be used. Some nozzles may appear to work well when used outside of their design, when
in fact they not be working as well as a nozzle designed for the application.

When operating hydraulic root cutter, use a much slower forward and reverse speed than when
using a nozzle to allow the cutter to work. Always use the same size skids as the blades being
used to avoid damage to the blade, cutter, or pipes.

Maintain the machine and accessories regularly. Do not leave nozzle attached to the sewer hose
overnight, or long periods, as they will corrode and fuse themselves to the coupling. Grease all
reel bearings, and rollers regularly, and check system fluid levels in the pump, engine, and
hydraulic system. Inspect nozzles for wear, replacing them if the orifices become wallowed out,
or they show signs of heavy abrasion wear.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Operation - Page 18

381 of 891


--- page 382 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
MECHANICAL RODDING

382 of 891


--- page 383 ---
383 of 891


--- page 384 ---
KR TOOLS

H
SECT

FKLUS

384 of 891


--- page 385 ---
NOZZLE TYPES AND USE

Determining the proper nozzle for the job can be confusing. The operator cannot see what is
happening in the pipe and how the nozzle is working. Like all tools, nozzles have different
designs for various cleaning applications. These applications fall into five basic catagories:
Preventive maintenance, Stoppage Removal, Crown Obstruction Removal, Invert Obstruction
Removal, and Specialty nozzles.

There are, to be sure, many different types of nozzles that are offered for use with flushing
machines. The best way to determine how a specific nozzle will work for you is to determine
which catagory group the nozzle fits into. If a nozzle does not appear to fit any one group, or has a
narrow specialty use, you may want to consider the use you will get from it versus the cost.

Preventive maintenance nozzles include radial nozzles, typically
drilled at 35°. These nozzles provide a design suitable for use in
routine cleaning and pin pointing of problems in pipes.

Stoppage nozzles include penetrator nozzles, typically drilled at 15°.
These nozzles are designed to penetrate materials and create an ever
widening hole. Stoppage nozzles commonly have heads smaller than
the nozzle shank.

Crown obstruction nozzles include large bore nozzles, typically
drilled at 35° to 45° with some having combinations of both. These
nozzles are designed to produce high volume and direct jets at crown
obstructions to remove them.

Invert obstruction nozzles include either flat sled type, or
football type nozzles. These nozzles have replaceable
orifices at various angles from 1° to 15°. These nozzles are
designed to provide high water volume and direct jets to the
bottom of the pipe.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Tools - Page 2

385 of 891


--- page 386 ---
LOCATING AND INSPECTION TOOLS

In the same catagory as specialty nozzles, there are many useful specialty accessories used to
facilitate video inspection, problem identification, and underground locating of pipes. While not
used on a daily basis by most regular cleaning crews, these accessories can be tremendous time
savers when working to accurately pin point, or observe underground problems.

Proofing Tool: A proofing tool is used during regular
maintenance to confirm the pipe is clear within 1" of
the diameter. Used to enhance records, this tool is very
effective in finding areas a mechanical cleaner needs to
be used. Also used for non-T'V inspection of new
sewer lines before acceptance to be sure they are not
crushed or have protruding connections.

Self Propelled Camera: The advent of small,
inexpensive TV systems has allowed development of
easy to use skids with a camera installed. These
systems use a special nozzle attached to the skid to do
fast inspection of areas that have suspected problems.
Not to take the place of a mainline camera system,
these small systems can provide a real time look at
most problems in lines up to 12".

Sonde: Location equipment using battery operated
sondes can be used with flushers. These sondes emit a
signal that is traced on the surface with a special
receiver. When strapped to the sewer hose, or skid,
the progress of the nozzle can be monitored, or locate
a specific dig site.

Cable Towing Nozzle: This nozzle is used to pull
video or bucket machine cable when stringing a line.
The nozzle has a built in swivel to allow the cable to

UL - twist without effecting the sewer hose, and should be
ante used whenever pulling tag lines or cables.
© ~- 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Tools - Page 4

386 of 891


--- page 387 ---
REMOTE AND EASEMENT ACCESS

As operators well know, not all manholes are in the street. Construction needs of the time,
development in former open land, and varying construction codes, will ofen result in manholes
set to the side of the road, in back yards, alleys, and easements or right of ways.

Reaching these manholes with the sewer hose can be difficult, especially if the cleaner cannot be
taken off road to reach them. Remote manholes are typically set to the side of the street , within
a few dozen feet. Isolated manholes are commonly found in easement right of ways behind
buildings, or through an undeveloped area.

Easement and lateral rollers to protect the hose and the operator should be used when working in
remote or isolated manholes.

Top manhole rollers should be used at the distant
manhole to allow the hose to pass by the sharp edges of
the rim under load. Accidents involving hose breaks
are most commonly caused by sharp edges cutting into
the hose and holding it while it is being pulled,
eventually cuttin the hose.

Field stake rollers are used to protect the hose from
structure corners, stone or masonary walls, and other
opbjects that would catch the hose and damage it.

Use slipper guides to pass the hose over rough stone,
fences, or binding angles.

Machine mounted easement rollers should be used to take
the lateral stress away from the level wind and footage
meter. These insert to a tube mounted under the hose reel,
and allow the hose to be deployed in line with the cleaner.
Roller sides are quick connect, allowing set up of the hose
before they are attached.

For use on 90° access, use the 90° machine mounted
easement roller. Roller sides are quick connect, allowing
set up of the hose before they are attached.

Articulating, or pivoting machine mounted rollers provide
an unlimited number of working angles, and are extremely
useful in street operation if the cleaner is not aligned with
the manhole. Working up to 180°, the roller sides are
quick connect, allowing the hose to be set up before they
are attached.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE - Flusher Tools - Page 6

387 of 891


--- page 388 ---
HYDRAULIC ROOT CUTTERS

Hydraulic root cutters come in a variety of power configurations and sizes. Much like power
saws used in construction, there are ranges of performance power from low rpm/low torque to
high rpm/high torque. As the rpm and torque rating increase, the cutter provides higher cutting
power with less chance the saw blade will bind in root masses.

For routine maintenance in pipes where roots have been previously removed , a low rpm/low
torque cutter can be used . These cutters typically turn at approximately 400 rpm, generating 300
pounds of torque. Bolt on skids with open ends are most often used, requiring approximately 20
minutes to change skid sizes . Due to the open skid design, caution should be observed when
using in pipes that may have dropped sections, as the cutter could become stuck. These cutters
are less expensive than high performance cutters, but suitable to perform light maintenance work.

For cutting heavy root masses or extensive use, a high rpm/high torque cutter is used. These
cutters typically turn at approximately 850 rpm or higher, generating over 1000 pounds of torque.
A drop in type, ‘closed’ skid design are commonly used, requiring approximately 2 minutes to
change skids sizes during use. Due to the closed skid design, these cutters can be used in lines
with known, or suspected, dropped joints, allowing retrieval up to a 3" drop. These cutters are
usually more expensive than low performance cutters, but they will provide a far stronger cutting
force and potentially longer field life.

Maintenance of these cutters is crucial to long field life. All root cutters need to have the water
removed after use, and oil run through the system to prevent rust build up. As a recommended
practice, after each line section has been completed, the tool should be removed from the hose,
and oil poured into the nozzle. Turn the blade to draw the oil into the cutter and drain water from
the vent. When the water turns to oil from the vent, the tool is lubricated. Be sure not to store the
cutter with water in it for longer than a few minutes to prevent rust from forming internally.

-— Bolt on skids

Hydraulic motor Water intake from nozzie

Typical Low Torque/rpm Cutter

Nozzle
Root saw coupling

Water exhaust pipe ~ Drop-in skid

Water exhaust port /

Root saw coupling

Typical High Torque/rpm Cutter

Hydraulic motor

© = 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Tools - Page 8

388 of 891


--- page 389 ---
ROOT SAW TYPES AND USE

Just as carpenters have different saws for different cuts, root saws are varied for different types of
work. Some root saws used with rodding machines can be used on hydraulic root cutters,
depending on the task. While these saws can be interchangable, root saws specifically designed
for use with hydraulic root cutters should be used.

Rodder root saws are not designed to be used with hydraulic root cutters, and may not hold up well
being turned at high rpm’s at high torque, especially in lines where heavy roots exist. Blade
balance is also important, especially with root cutters, as an unbalanced blade can affect bearings
in the front of the tool. Cutting tools and blades designed for use with hydraulic root saws are
typically heavier than most standard rodder tools, designed not to deform while being turned at
high rates of speed and lessen wear.

Standard root saw blade. Typically used as an all purpose P\M saw in lines
that have known or suspected roots. Flat blade allows teeth to cut closer to
the pipe surface.

Concave root saw. Commonly used as an all purpose P/M saw in pipes with
known or suspected roots. Rounded edges keep teeth away from pipe
surfaces and joints in lines that have pipe deflection problems. Rounded
shape adds higher strength to the blade over standard blades for heavy work.

Spiral root saw blade. Most often used in lines having known, heavy root
intrusion. Tapered end engages roots, creating a leading cut in heavy
masses. Light roots are drawn into the saw and cut. This blade is most
effective when used in graduating sizes when working in heavy root masses.

Extra curl root saw. Typically used to grind and cut roots that have
filled the pipe. The spiral pattern creates a multiple cutting surface that
works at the entire face of the root mass. This tool can be very effective
in lines when root s have trapped dirt and other debris in the mass.,
using the flusher to remove the grindings periodically.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Tools - Page 10

389 of 891


--- page 390 ---
FLUSHING MACHINE
REPAIR SECTION

390 of 891


--- page 391 ---
TROUBLE SHOOTING LACK OF PRESSURE

The drop of operating pressure can be a tough problem to solve. It is usually a simple problem,
however. The following check list should help you to identify what has happened to cause lack of
top operating pressure.

1.

Check the nozzle for wear. Most cases this is the culprit. If the nozzle has a forward
orifice, place the stem end of a pop rivet, from the inside, through the opening. Attach the
nozzle to the hose and run the pressure up. If the cleaner gets to full pressure quickly, you
need to replace the nozzle. If not, continue with the next steps.

Check the strainer. When strainer is replaced, check the assembly for suction leaks. A
suction leak can affect the pressure. Ifthe strainer is clogged, clean the strainer and
replace. Try the machine, if it is still not up to pressure, continue with the list.

Check the pump for any leaks. There may be some worn packings, or worn seals allowing
water and pressure to escape. Unless an active water leak is seen, it may not be necessary
to go inside the pump. Before working on the pump, follow the next steps.

Check the belts that drive the pump for wear, or tightness. Many times it is the power
belts slipping. Ifthe belts are glazed, torn, or checked, replace the belt and try the
machine. Ifthe belts are in good shape, continue with the list.

Next check the water control valves to see if there is any blow-by. Disconnect the return
line hose from the water control or ball valve. Pull the lever to divert the water to the
sewer hose. Run the machine, if any water comes through the control valve and out the
open end of the return line, you will need to replace or repair the valve. If no water
appears from the return line, proceed to step 6.

If the pressure relief valve does not dump to ground and is piped back into the tank or
system, disconnect the return or dump line. Run the machine, if water comes out the
dump line below maximum pressure the valve may be stuck open, or need adjustment.

If all of these steps do not tell you where the problem is, it may be in the pump, or motor.
You may need to contact SRECO-FLEXIBLE for further help. Consult the pump manual
for suggested procedures.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Repair - Page 2

391 of 891


--- page 392 ---
PUMP TROUBLESHOOTING - FLUID END

Common causes relating to loss of pressure are usually not in the water pump itself. Clogged
strainers, worn water control valves, worn or ‘stuck’ pressure relief valves, or worn nozzles are
the usual culprits that steal pressure. Refer to the trouble shooting guide before looking to the
pump. Basic troubleshooting of the pump can be done during operation, and should be a
regular field mainternance check. Most common things to look for in the fluid end are;

Valves - Valve damage or wear can affect pressure and flow, and can be difficult to determine
which valve may be causing the problem. Valve damage can sometimes be heard during
operation standing near the pump, or using a mechanic’s stethoscope or small pipe to listen to
each valve. Each valve consists of a seat, moving disc, spring, and retainer, which are subject to
wear. Valve discs can jam open if something large has tried to pass through it.

Valve Covers - The most common source of water leaks on a pump are
the valve access covers, which may need tightening or new ‘O” ring seals.

ao

Gear end

1\
caf
| a

| Wy 7A

J. Cylinders - Ifthe cylinders are worn or scratched, water may
/

be evident under the pump between the fluid and gear ends.

Packing - When packings wear, water may be seen leaking from
the bottom of the pump, usually between the fluid and gear end.

Icing - Cylinders, packing, and valve assemblies can be damaged with a single freeze. To avoid
catastrophic failure, be sure to use the recommended dewatering process for the system, and
remove the small drain plugs (open petcocks if installed) that drain the galleys. Ifice is suspected
in the system, place the machine in a heated area to thaw. If ice is suspected in the sewer hose,
Tun the system without nozzles to flush out the ice.

Air in the Pump - A pump will pull air into the fluid end if it runs out of water, or there is an air
leak in the suction line. A large air ‘bubble’ occurs that will prevent water movement and is
evidenced by a severe pulsation of the sewer hose. Remove the nozzle and run the system up for a
full minute to allow the air mass to move out of the pump. -

Water Purity - Solids suspended in water can erode fluid end components. Most suspended
particles are introduced throught the water tank. Be sure to flush the hydrant before each fill,
check the strainer daily, and clean the sump of the water tank periodically . If plant effluent or
drafting water source is used, secondary straining such as a fine mesh nylon strainer at the tank
fill, may be needed.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Repair - Page 4

392 of 891


--- page 393 ---
SEWER HOSE ANATOMY

Most sewer hose used today is constructed specifically for conveyance of pressurized water.
Generally speaking, there are three grades of sewer hose used. Common, high, and specialized
grades. Each grade of hose offers different properties from low cost considerations, to high end
applications.

Common grade hose is typically the least expensive, using layered construction and a
polyethylene inner core. High grade is usually a little more expensive, as layered construction
is fuse bonded to each layer, and a hytrel inner core is used. Specialized grades of hose are far
more expensive, and include extremely high pressure applications, or single material
composition.

Longevity of sewer hose is difficult to predict due to the various conditions found in collection
systems. There are, however, some basic guidelines that can be used to make a fair assessment
of how a particular hose will perform.

Side Wall Thickness: As a general rule, the thicker the walls of a hose, the higher resistance to
cuts and abrasive wear will be seen. Thicker walled hose will tend to resist kinks, especially
where attached to fittings over thinner walled hose.

Construction: Bonded, or fused construction permanently bonds the outer jacket, nylon
reinforcing, and inner core, into one piece. Layered construction can allow the outer jacket to
separate from the nylon jacket and inner core. This difference can be seen when cuts occur in
the outer jacket. Ifthe jacket can be peeled off in larger pieces similar to a banana, it is
probably not bonded. Ifthe jacket cannot be peeled and only small pieces can be pulled off, it
is most likely bonded.

Inner Core: The thickness and density of the inner core determines the elasticity and strength
of the hose. As and example, hytrel tends not to stretch as much as polyethylene. Ifthe hose is
pulled when a nozzle becomes stuck, the potential for hidden damage increases with elasticity.
The thickness of the inner core can affect water volume capacity, and should measure a true 1"
or .75" ID for trailer or truck mounted systems to operate at full capacity.

Bend Radius: The bend radius of a hose determines how tight a bend can be made before a

kink, or permanent bend in the hose occurs. Asa rule, the lower the bend radius, the higher the
resistance to kinking, especially at coupling connections.

Outer jacket

Nylon reinforcing webbing

Wall thickness

Inner core or liner ——»

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Repair - Page 6

393 of 891


--- page 394 ---
COLLECTION SYSTEM
AND
MACHINE SAFETY

394 of 891


--- page 395 ---
HOSE COUPLINGS AND REPAIR

When sewer hose is damaged, couplings are usually needed to perform repairs. While this is not
a difficult process, there are some considerations to be made for successful coupling installation.

When installing new end or splice fittings, be sure to use the proper size fitting to accommodate
the wall thickness of the hose on the machine. Often is best to purchase fittings made by the
hose manufacturer than take a chance on having one fail.

Good hose fittings have internal ribs designed to bite into the hose and prevent it from pulling
out. Hydraulic assisted presses are usually needed for installation, however, field repair kits
using draw down bolts can provide a safe installation if properly used.

Cut the sewer hose a few feet from any damaged areas to insure hose integrity for the coupling to
mount on. Be sure the cut is as square as possible, as uneven cuts may prevent a solid seal to the

coupling. Be sure the sewer hose is free of oil or grease on the outer jacket where the coupling
will mount.

Place the new coupling on the end of the hose, and draw a line on the hose at the end of the

coupling. Ifthe coupling is properly pressed on, the line will be very close to, if not right on the
edge of the coupling.

Avoid using temporary in-line splice couplings unless under emergency conditions. Temporary
fittings are typically larger in diameter than the sewer hose, and are threaded on by hand. Over
time, these fittings can loosen or hang up in the pipe during use, and are not designed to be used
on a permanent basis.

Despite the best efforts to protect the hose, all hose will eventually need replacing. While there
are different parameters used in determining when to acquire new hose between different
agencies, there are a few common considerations; 1. Age of the current hose, 2. Many in-line
splicer couplings (more than 5 in $00‘), 3. Overall length and is it enough to reach between the
farthest manholes, and 4. Overall condition of the hose and number of cuts, peeling sections, etc.

Coupling Types Cut away of coupling

Threaded male end Sewer hose os =
| Swivel connection female end Ez =
ita REG
| ie | Splice or in-line fitting » Retaining ribs
L . _
© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flusher Repair - Page 8

395 of 891


--- page 396 ---
RODDING MACHINES

396 of 891


--- page 397 ---
USING THE PROPER TOOL FOR THE JOB

We have all heard that using the right tool for the job can make all the difference. Some of us learn this
lesson when we try to loosen a stubborn nut on a toilet tank with a few taps of a hammer and discover
porcelain has little to no elastic properties. We usually learn this lesson repeatedly in adult life due to
convenience. It can be inconvenient to stop what you are doing to go get the proper tool, however, as
many of us can attest, the results of not doing this can be far more than inconvenient. The lessons of
using the proper tool for the job is especially true with Rodding Machines. Using the wrong tool for a
given cleaning application can cause extensive rod or tool damage, can damage pipes, can damage the
machine, or hurt the operator. Part of the art of operating Rodders safely and effectively is
understanding the many different tools that can be used and what each is for.

There are four basic categories of tool groups used with Rodding Machines; Boring Tools, Cutting
Tools, Finishing Tools, and Specialty Tools. Each tool group with its own specific design function and
each tool in the group having it’s own specific application.

Boring Tools:

Boring tools perform as their name suggests, they bore into materials, their corkscrew shaped design
separating them from other tool groups . These tools are used to remove stoppages, as piloting tools to
allow larger tools to be used, and to retrieve objects in pipes. Having unique working abilities in their
ability to be turned clockwise and counterclockwise, boring tools are critical to the removal of roots and
grease. These tools operate at low RPMs, typically between 20 and 30 RPM for best effectiveness.

Cutting Tools:

Cutting tools are primarily root saws, shaped or constructed for different uses. Much as there are
different types of saws used to cut lumber, there are different types of saws used to cut roots.
Depending on the type of roots, density, and intrusion level, there is a saw to meet it. Root saws can
only be used clockwise in the pipe, and are most effective when turned at approximately 45 - 55 RPM,
moved slowly in the pipe. Root saws should be preceded by a piloting auger and used in pull back
mode to do their heavy cutting work. This puts less strain on the rods than pushing the tool, and allows
the saw to deliver all of its cutting power to the root mass. .

Finishing Tools:

Finishing tools are the last tools used in cleaning operations. They are designed to remove residue of
materials boring or cutting tools may leave in the pipe. These tools are not sized smaller than the pipe,
as are other tools, they fit snugly to scour the pipe walls free of grease and/or root materials. For best
efficiency, a rotation speed of approximately 60 - 70 RPM should be used, with very slow movement in
the pipe to allow several revolutions per foot. These tools are essential to use in heavy grease and root
control, effectively lengthening the frequency between cleaning.

Specialty Tools:

Specialty tools have special designs which are used in unique cleaning or pipe work situations. From
cleaning tools that penetrate hardened slurry composites, to tools used to pull back cables for cameras
and bucket machines, to finding buried manholes, these tools fill a variety of needs. Typically not usable
outside of their design function, they are highly effective when used as designed.

© 2002 Tilson & Associates, LLC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools - Page 9

397 of 891


--- page 398 ---
ROD COUPLING TOOLS

Used for a variety of purposes, these tools are not used to clean pipe, but to work with rods
themselves. To properly attach tools, work with rod couplings, feed through guide hoses, or
retrieve if broken, these tools should be kept with the machine at all times.

The assembly wrench is used to loosen or tighten
coupling nuts. The jog in the handle is to allow
knuckles to pass each other without hitting when
using both the assembly wrench and the assembly
turning handle. ‘The tapered end of the tool is for
use in anchoring the coupling tools are being
attached to, or when the turning handle is not handy.

The assembly turning handle is designed to anchor
the rod coupling through the center hole for leverage
to loosen or tighten nuts on the rod coupling while
removing/connecting rods, or working with tools.
The locking pin moves in and out to lock onto the
coupling and hold it firmly. This tool is much safer
and easier to use than broken rods or other ill fitting
tools to hold the rod coupling against stubborn nuts.

The pull out tool design is to allow rod to turn while
a coupling is pushed during hand rod operations.
Today it is used primarily to set the rod pressure and
robotic system during the machine set up. Far safer
than using a broken rod through the coupling in this
process if the reel is turned, the tool allows the rod
to turn.

The pilot bullet tool is used primarily to guide the
rod through the guide. This tool is be hand
tightened on and retracted into the machine so on
the next use it will pilot its way down the guide hose
and protect the rod coupling threads and the inside
of the guide hose. The tool can also can be used to
push up the pipe to tow back cable or ropes. When
pulling cable, the swivel bullet tool is recommended
to allow the cable to turn without kinking.

The pick up tool is used when a string of rod breaks
in the pipe. Designed to rotate onto a rod and catch
a coupling on the pull back, this is a critical tool to

have on the machine.

Photos courtesy of SRECO-Flexible

© 2002 Tilson & Associates, LUC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools - Page 10

398 of 891


--- page 399 ---
BORING TOOLS

The use of boring tools with rodders is essential for most all cleaning work. Boring tools pilot
small holes through roots and grease which allow larger tools to be used until full pipe sized
tools can be pulled through. Boring tools have specific design functions, from stoppage removal
to mineral deposit removal, to piloting for larger tool use. Boring tools should be turned
relatively slowly, around 25 to 35 RPMs, and moved slowly in the pipe. These tools provide the
perfect means to carry the rod to the far manhole where tool changes to other pull tools can be
easily made. Designed to operate clockwise in the pipe, these tools can be turned counter
clockwise to free them from materials if they get snared, or to work their way over misaligned
pipe connections that clockwise rotation will not let them pass.

The squarebar corkscrew is designed to be used on
stoppages. It rips and pulls its way through material
that makes up static blockages, with an open
winding of the blade that allows debris to flush

through the tool as it relieves the blockage.

The auger is used for piloting a hole to the distant
manhole in roots and grease. From this hole, larger
tools can be pulled through the line to clear any
organic material deposits or growth. Extremely
effective in grease when used in graduating sizes to
pipe'size, it can remove this material in small chunks.
Augers are also used as an all purpose tool when it is
not known what is in the line.

The double point corkscrew is used to bite into
fabrics in the pipe and remove them by slowly
twisting and pulling them out. Water will gradually
lubricate the pipe around the material, allowing it to
be pulled out. Other uses include removing
frisbees, cans, and plastic bottles, jugs, and buckets.

The round wire corkscrew is designed to remove
mineral deposits in small pipes of 3" to 8" diameter.
The resiliency of this tool allows it to penetrate and
pick apart lime and other deposits. It can also be
used as a simple traversing tool from one manhole
to the next.

The sand corkscrew is used to traverse pipe
— N A KK ke vA Y YY which has filled with sand or to open pipes
after floods. The tool allows water to follow
using the rear threads and allow water flow or
a cable to be attached for bucket machine use.

. Photos courtesy of SRECO-Flexible
© 2002 Tilson & Associates, LLC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools - Page 11

399 of 891


--- page 400 ---
ROOT SAWS

For most any kind of root cutting work necessary in pipes, there is a corresponding root saw.
Root saws range from heavy cutting with heavy blades to light curtain root cutting with very
thin blades. Each root saw is designed for a specific task, much as wood working saws are
designed for specific work. Root saws generally need to be turned relatively quickly to
operate as designed, about 50 - 60 RPMs. They should also be pulled as opposed to pushed in
the pipe to reduce torque damage to rods and to cut more effectively in the same plane.

The standard root saw, or flat blade as they are sometimes called, are used
for heavy cutting work. The flat edge of the blade allows the teeth of the

saw to travel closer to the pipe to cut roots that are pushed to the side by the
force of the cutting action.

The concave root saw uses a shaped, or curved, blade for strength and to
keep the teeth of the saw away from pipe edges. This is the most commonly
used root saw for heavy cutting work due to their strength and ability to work
in sensitive pipes without scarring the inside with the cutting teeth.

The Fine blade root saw uses a very thin steel blade with a reinforced back
to keep its shape. The thin blade cuts fine roots such as curtain roots and
new growth, and does not push them off to the sides like heavier steel tooth

root saws.
* >

Neg a = P w

A \ The spiral root saw uses a blade which has an auger shape to it to create a

js \ taper that engages very thick root structures and draws the rest of the
3X - ki blade into the cut. The tool is effective in light roots as the roots can be
\ at drawn into the saw and cut in several places, unlike standard root saws

. A which cut in a single plane.

The extra cur] root saw uses an extra wrap of the blade to provide a full
face cutting surface for working on willow and other full pipe mass root
structures. Very effective as a push cutting saw, though caution of over
torque has to be observed during use.

The tandem root saw is used when pull cutting cannot be easily done,
such as in a long run without enough rod, or blocked upstream access.
The second blade prevents the front root saw from trying to turn and
climb to the top of the pipe. The second blade can be a fine blade saw
to provide a surgical cut after the heavier cutting blade has passed.

Photos courtesy of SRECO-Flexible
& 2602 Tilson & Associates, LLC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools ~ Page 12

400 of 891


--- page 401 ---
SCOURING TOOLS

Scouring tools, sometimes referred to as finishing tools, are designed to scour pipe walls after
cleaning operations to remove hair roots, grease and other debris root saws and boring tools can
miss. Made at or slightly larger than the pipe size, these tools compress slighly as they are pulled
into the pipe. They should be rotated quickly, about 60 to 70 RPMs and pulled back slowly for
full effect. Especially useful in completely removing hardened grease and avoiding large chunk
removal when used in graduating sizes up to pipe size. This controls the way grease is cut out
and can avoid stoppages. As a regrowth preventer, finishing tools scour roots from the sidewalls
of the pipe, cutting exploratory roots away which lengthens the time between return maintenance
calls.

The three blade cutter is used in grease and root
applications. The tool is designed to be pushed
if necessary and is a choice tool in lines that
serpentine and do not allow conventional tools
to be used due to misaligned pipes.

The curved blade cutter is used primarily in
grease applications, the tool is tapered to allow
increasingly larger bites to be taken when
being pulled back slowly. The short cutting
edge can get under hardened deposits of grease
and pry them free. Not necessarily
recommended for root removal work due to the
limited cutting surface, it can be used if no
other scouring tool is available.

The four blade cutter is used primarily on root
masses, especially those of very fine root matter
such as willow or chinese elm trees. The thin
roots of these trees can be difficult to cut,
however, the very thin cutting blades of these
tools can be very effective in cutting away this
light root matter.

. Photos courtesy of SRECO-Flexible
© 2002 Tilson & Associates, LLC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools - Page 13

401 of 891


--- page 402 ---
SPECIALTY TOOLS

There are a variety of specialty tools used with rodding machines which are designed for unique
tasks or problems. Typically these tools are not used outside of these functions, but when used
for the specific application they were designed for, these tools can provide very good results.

The spear point is used for a variety of things. It is
designed to dislodge materials in pipes like eggshells,
fine broken glass, and other materials that tend to lay
flat and are not easily moved with flushing machines
unless disturbed. It can be used as a stoppage tool, but
is not as effective as a square bar corkscrew in that job.

The sand leader is made to move on top of sand in a
pipe to dig at it and allow flushing equipment to
remove it. The curved sides tend to let the tool remain
on top of the material and is frequently used to thread
camera or bucket machine cable between manholes.

The loop tool is a simple tool designed to pull cable
or rope between manholes. Its cousin the swivel loop
is primarily for cable to allow the cable to twist when
being pulled so rod is not twisted in the process.

The turn type porcupine is used when scale deposits
such as concrete or paving have adhered to the pipe
walls. Pulled back and forth in the pipe and turned,
the heavy bristles can pry off stubborn scale. Caution
should be used in being sure the pipe is the same size
the entire section.

The lateral locator is used to help find buried
manholes. Placed in the pipe at the 6/12 position and
not rotated, the tool will expand when it enters a
manhole, giving exact footage to the structure. This
tool is frequently used in pipes running at full flow
which cameras cannot see manhole structures as they
pass through them.

5 Photos courtesy of SRECO-Flexible
© 2002 Tilson & Associates, LLC Sewer Maintenance Methods and Tools - Page 14

402 of 891


--- page 403 ---
403 of 891


--- page 404 ---
HYDROGEN SULFIDE (H2S) IN MANHOLES

Hydrogen sulfide is a naturally occurring gas from the biological breakdown of organic materials.
When bacteria and organisms breakdown organic material, waste by products are produced in the
form of hydrogen sulfide. H2S has a distinctive odor of rotten eggs, and is heavier than air so it is
found low in the manhole if present. Above 200 parts per million, hydrogen sulfide will deaden
the sense of smell, so detectors are the only safe means of testing for this gas. The following
chart shows health effects at various levels of H2S.

5 ppm: Moderate odor, easily detectable by smell
10 ppm: Eye irritation can begin, bloodshot eyes may indicate presence of gas
30 ppm: Very strong odor of rotten eggs
100 ppm: _—_ Loss of smell in 2 - 15 minutes, breathing irritation resulting in coughing
300 ppm: _ Rapid loss of smell, difficulty breathing without coughing
500- 700 ppm: Unconsciousness within a short time, possible death in 30 minutes
700-1000 ppm: Rapid unconsciousness. Breathing stops
1000-2000 ppm: Instant unconsciousness, involuntary muscles cease, death in a few minutes
43000 ppm: Lower explosive limit

If hydrogen sulfide is present, it is most likely to be found;

Down low in the manhole

Where there is poor ventilation like pump stations, wet pits, or deep manhole structures
Where flow is stopped, either a stoppage, or area that organics settle out and decay

In large lines that are flowing slow and nearly full

At discharge points of long force mains due to organics clinging to pipe walls

Hydrogen sulfide is strong enough to cause death by itself, or by causing unconsciousness leading
to death by falling or drowning. Remember, sense of smel! will be lost when H2S is present in
amounts that can cause death or unconsciousness, you will not be able to smell it.

Respect hydrogen sulfide gas, and take the proper steps to detect and disperse it;

Use knowledge and experience to suspect it in the system

Use gas detecting equipment to test manholes and other confined spaces before entry
Use a blower to vent all confined spaces entered, H2S may become present after entry
Use a safety harness when working in manholes

Do not attempt a rescue attempt if proper self contained breathing apparatus and entry equipment
are not available. One half of confined space fatalities are. would be rescuers who thought they
would not be overcome by the same gasses someone else was. Call in the emergency and wait for
trained personnel to arrive. Open manhole covers nearest the accident manhole, and start blowing
air into the effected manhole to disperse the gas.

© - 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Field Safety - Page 4

404 of 891


--- page 405 ---
HAZARDOUS ATMOSPHERE REVIEW

Among hazardous atmospheres, there are three primary groups;

Lack of oxygen - carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide
Hazardous atmospheres - hydrogen sulfide, industrial wastes
Explosive atmospheres - methane, petro-chemicals

Test and ventilate underground or confined space structures before entry to avoid accidents.
Follow these basic rules;

Common Places Found

Lack of Oxygen Hazardous Atmosphere Explosive atmosphere
Down low near the bottom Down low near the bottom Methane - top of structure
Sealed structures Large pipes running full Fuel fumes - down low
Meter vaults Wet pits, and pump stations Near swamps or old dumps
Non-vented manholes Long force main ends Near industrial areas

Symptoms of Exposure

Lack of Oxygen Hazardous Atmosphere Explosive atmosphere
Difficulty breathing Smells of rotten eggs Smells like fuel
Ringing in ears Difficulty breathing Difficulty breathing
Dizziness or nausea Dizziness or nausea Dizziness or nausea
Coughing Coughing Coughing
Drowsiness Unable to think clearly

IF ANY OF THESE SYMPTOMS OCCUR - GET OUT!!

Do not attempt a rescue of a victim if:
You are alone, call for help immediately - seconds count

You do not have proper emergency air equipment or do not know how to use it
~ You do not have a safety harness or other confined space entry equipment

REMEMBER!

% of all fatalities in confined space accidents are would be rescuers believing they would not be
affected by the same conditions as the victim, or not knowing what the conditions were.

Don’t be a dead hero and an ineffective rescuer

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Field Safety - Page 2
. 405 of 891


--- page 406 ---
14.

Insure operators remain clear of the manhole during operation. Never allow operators in
the manhole while the machine is in operation.

15. Insure operators use long handled gaffing tools or hooked rope to remove or lower

nozzles or tools from the far manhole to avoid entry. Read, understand, and follow all
_ applicable confined space entrv procedures if manhole entry is required,

16. Insure operation of the cleaner during stoppages is done from the downstream, dry
manhole. Never attempt to place the nozzle in a full manhole. Injury can be caused if the
nozzle is not in the pipe and exits the manhole under pressure.

17. Do not operate the hose reel in payout mode faster than the nozzle can pull the hose,
creating a hose backlash.

18. Do not use the sewer hose as pulling tool.

19. Do not rewind sewer hose on reel tightly without water pressure to avoid reel damage.

20. Adhere to all safety labels on the machine.

zl, Do not operate the machine when excessive noise appears that are uncommon to normal
operation.

22, When performing service work on the machine, shut the machine down. Never place
hands near moving components. Do not wear loose clothing near moving parts or
components.

23 Always use a secondary prop for cowling doors when service work ts performed.

24. Use only manufacturer recommended parts and tools.

25. Follow all manufacturer's recommended routine maintenance procedures for the machine
and components. Insure the system has been dewatered properly if storing outside during
cold weather.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Flushing Machine Safety - Page 8

hae Ee

406 of 891


--- page 407 ---
13. Insure reel cowling door is secured with the primary prop when opened for field
inspection.

14. Adhere to all safety and caution labels on the machine during operation.

15. Insure all operating components are maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommended service procedures and frequency.

16. Do not operate the machine when excessive noise appears that are uncommon to normal .
operation..

17. When performing service work on the machine, shut the machine down. Never place
hands near moving components, Do not wear loose clothing near moving parts or
components.

18. Insure proper lock out/tag out procedures are followed when servicing the machine. Be
sure the rod storage reel is blocked or secured when performing service work to prevent
free wheeling.

19. Always use a secondary prop for cowling doors when service work is performed.

20. Use only manufacturer recommended parts and tools.

© ~ 1997 SRECO-FLEXIBLE Rodding Machine Safety - Page 6

407 of 891


--- page 408 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
CONFINED SPACES

408 of 891


--- page 409 ---
City of San Mateo
Environmental Services
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)

SOP NO.:: d

DIVISION: Uvtilities

~”

PROCEDURE TITLE: Confined Spaces

INTRODUCTION

This SOP is a guide to use when it is needed to work in a confined space. A confined
space is defined by Cal-OSHA as the concurrent existence of the following condi-
tions: (1) existing ventilation is insufficient to remove dangerous air contamination
and/or oxygen deficiency which may exist or develop; and (2) ready access or egress
for the removal of a suddenly disabled employee is difficult due to the location
and/or size of the opening(s). Dangerous air contamination is defined as an atmos-
phere presenting a threat of causing death, injury, acute illness or disablement due
to the presence of flammable, explosive, toxic or otherwise injurious or incapaci-
tating substances. Included in this definition are:

1. Sanitary sewer lift stations.

2. Sanitary sewer and storm manholes.

3. Water, electrical and pump station vaults.
4. Tanks, stationary or portable.

5. Pits, which either have covers or have insufficient natural ventilation to allow
for a safe atmosphere.

~ 6. Excavation or construction trenches.

‘OPERATING PROCEDURE

Preentry
1. Entry is not allowed until the atmosphere within a confined space is found to
be safe. All air tests should be conducted by qualified persons who have
received specific training on the use of air monitoring equipment.
whe |

409 of 891


--- page 410 ---
Bi

In every confined space area, air testing should include, but not be limited to,
oxygen deficiency, toxic gases and the presence of flammable or combustible
gases.

If monitoring for carbon monoxide, levels must remain below 35 ppm. When
not using SCBA equipment, the oxygen level must be above 19.5 percent and
not exceed 23 percent. Lower explosive limit (LEL) must be maintained below
10 percent. Hydrogen sulfide level must be maintained below 10 ppm.

When using SCBA equipment, the oxygen level should not be below 16 percent
and not exceed 23 percent. Hydrogen sulfide level should not exceed the
Cal-OSHA requirement of 50 ppm. LEL should be below 10 percent. When
using SCBA equipment at the sewer lift station, spike readings lasting more
than 10 seconds must be acted upon and evacuation of the confined space must
begin. If the monitor clears to below allowed levels within 10 seconds, work
may proceed.

No smoking will be permitted within 25' of the confined space.

Procedures

1.

The confined space shall be checked with an approved air monitoring device by
inserting a probe in the confined space prior to entry. If an alarm sounds
during the monitoring process or the employee feels there could be an unsafe
condition, do not enter until it is made safe. If toxic gas levels are below

50 ppm and LEL is below 10 percent, the space may be open for ventilation, but
not entered. Once this process has been completed and preentry conditions are
met, entry can be made. A gas monitoring device probe shall be lowered into
the confined space and kept inside during the entire maintenance process
when entry is required. If an alarm should sound and acceptable levels are
exceeded, secure the area and notify the supervisor immediately. The follow-
ing areas shall be referred to as confined spaces and be assigned by type as
follows:

a. Sanitary sewer and storm manholes—Permitted Confined Space.
b. Sewer lift stations—Permitted Confined Space.

c. Water tanks—Permitted Confined Space.

d. Water valve pits—Nonpermitted Confined Space.

e. Water meter vaults or pits—Nonpermitted Confined Space.

f. Trenches—Nonpermitted Confined Space.

A

410 of 891


--- page 411 ---
If any employee encounters a situation which does not fit this list precisely, or
if there is a question concerning whether or not it is a confined space, assume it
to be a Permitted Confined Space. Under no circumstances is a manhole or any
cover of an enclosed area to be opened without first testing the space for toxic
gases, combustibles, or the lack of oxygen.

Classification Permitted Confined Space

The procedures specified in Title 8, Article 108, Section 5159, will be followed,
including setup and use of all required equipment. The exception to Section 5159
will be that the person or persons in the confined space need not wear approved
respiratory protective equipment (SCBA) if the space is constantly ventilated and the
air quality continually tests at a safe level. Entry into the confined space is by permit
only. The confined space entry permit or work permit is a written authorization
that certifies that all existing hazards have been evaluated and necessary precautions
have been taken to ensure the safety of each worker. Permits must be dated, signed
and posted. Supervisors are responsible for the evaluation and the posting of the
permit.

1. An approved safety harness and safety line are required for entry into a
Permitted Confined Space. The line shall be attached to either the hoist on the
tripod or some other fixed object. At the sewer lift station screen room, the
rescue plan shall consist of the two standby employees equipped with SCBA
equipment and a stretcher to remove an employee not wearing a safety
harness.

2. Atleast two employees, currently certified for CPR/first aid, shall stand by on
the outside of the confined space ready to give assistance in case of emergency.
One employee shall be continually monitoring the atmosphere in the confined
space. At least one additional employee, who may have other duties, shall be
within sight or maintain radio communication with the standby employee.
An effective means of communication between workers in the confined space
and the standby worker must be maintained.

3. The standby employee shall have an SCBA available for immediate use.

4. Work involving the use of flame, arc, spark or other source of ignition is
prohibited within a confined space which contains dangerous air contamina-
tion due to flammable and/or explosive substances.

5. If the air quality becomes unsafe as measured by an approved air monitoring
device, the space will be immediately evacuated. Ventilate the area for five
minutes and wait for air quality to improve. If air quality does not improve,
SCBA equipment will be needed.

411 of 891


--- page 412 ---
If the employee in the confined space becomes incapacitated due to the unsafe
atmospheric conditions, a standby employee shall immediately notify the
person within sight. This second person shall call Communications either
through the nonemergency radio or by dialing 9-1-1.

The standby employee shall immediately begin lifting the fallen employee out
of the confined space. The second standby employee will assist in removing
the victim from the confined space and begin to administer CPR and/or first
aid.

Classification Nonpermitted Confined Space

1.

2

The entire lid or cover shall be removed, and the space shall be ventilated.

If the atmosphere tests acceptable, the employee need not wear the harness nor
be attached to the hoisting device.

Employee may now enter the space to perform work. Entry into this space is
acceptable by ladder or hoist or by any other appropriate device or piece of
equipment. The atmosphere shall be continually monitored while the
employee remains in the confined space.

If the air quality becomes unsafe, as measured by the approved air monitoring
device, the employee shall immediately evacuate the confined space.

If the employee in the confined space becomes incapacitated due to accident or
injury and the atmosphere still tests acceptable, rescue will only be performed
by Fire Department personnel or under the direction of a medical technician.

If the employee in the confined space becomes incapacitated due to the unsafe
atmospheric conditions, the standby employee shall immediately notify the
person within sight. This second person shall call Communications either
through the nonemergency radio or by dialing 9-1-1.

Any rescue can only be attempted after atmospheric conditions have been

- made safe or with the use of SCBA equipment, if available at the site. The

standby employee shall immediately begin lifting the fallen employee out of
the confined space. The second standby employee will assist in removing the
victim from the confined space and begin to administer CPR and/or first aid.

Definitions

Ls

Qualified Person: The Qualified Person is the person designed to serve as the
on-site monitor during confined space operations. This individual must
understand the use of safety equipment and assure compliance with the safety
procedures developed for the confined space operation. This person shall be

-4-

412 of 891


--- page 413 ---
capable of specifying necessary control and/or protective action necessary for
workers’ safety. Additionally, the Qualified Person must be trained in the use
of combustible gas /oxygen deficiency and toxic gas meters and in CPR/first aid.
All City of San Mateo Utilities Department employees engaged in con-
fined space entry, either in the active or standby roles, are required to fulfill the
training requirements of the Qualified Person.

Standby Person: As with all other personnel involved in confined space entry
operations, the Standby Person is thoroughly trained in the confined space
entry procedures and the use of safety and monitoring equipment. Standby
Person should be stationed at the access opening of any confined space while
such space is occupied for any reason. At all times, the Standby Person must
maintain visual contact with every occupant in the confined space, where the
construction of the space permits, or should have continuous knowledge of the
activities and well-being of every occupant of the confined space.

MAINTENANCE (Equipment, Tools)

1

Barriers and warning signs must be placed at or near the entrance to the
confined space.

Any electrical service or equipment connected to a confined space should be
locked in the “off" position and tagged if such service presents a hazard to
personnel entering the confined space. Follow SOP that pertains to lock-out,
tag-out procedures.

When unsafe conditions are detected by air monitoring equipment or by other
means, the work area should be ventilated and made safe before entry, as
determined by follow-up monitoring. Low-pressure type air movers (blowers)
or fans should be used to purge the confined space prior to personnel entry.
Refer to the SOP for the air monitoring equipment of gases and vapors.

SAFETY PRECAUTIONS

In general, personnel authorized to enter a confined space should be provided with
and use the following equipment:

i.

es

Safety harness—Full harness to be worn whenever feasible.
Lifeline—2,000 Ibs. test strength.

Portable ladder or other approved means of entry and exit provided such
means would not obstruct the access opening.

Several means of illumination equipment which are explosion-proof.

413 of 891


--- page 414 ---
Nonsparking striking, chipping, hammering, or cutting tools and equipment in
a confined space where an explosive or flammable air conditions exist.

Other personal protective equipment (i.e., eye protection, chemical-resistant
gloves) should be taken into consideration by the work environment, the work
being performed and skin absorption potential of the chemicals involved.

Air-driven power tools (where flammable liquid is present) whenever feasible
should be used.

Cylinders of compressed gas should never be taken into a confined space.

City of San Mateo
Environmental Services
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)

REVISION DATE DECEMBER 2005

414 of 891


--- page 415 ---
4560 Federal Register / Vol. 58, No. 9 / Thursday, January i4, 1993 / Rules and Regulations
er erences:

Appendix 5D to §1920.146-——-Sampie
Fermits
Appendix D - 1A Sewer Entxy Permit

See Safety Procedure.

A confined space either is entere through an opening other than a
Goor (such as manhole or side port) or requires the use of a ladder
or rungs to reach the working level and test results are
satisfactory. This check list must be filled out whenever the job
site meets this criteria.

Yes No
i. Did your Survey of the surrounding area show it to ( ) ( j
be free of hazards such as Grifting vapors from
tanks, piping or sewers?
rie Does your knowledge of industrial or other ({ ) { )}
Gischarges. indicate this. area is likely to remain
free of dangerous air contaminants while occupied?
os Are you certified in operation of the ges monitor €) ©3
tc be used?
4. Has a gas monitor functional test (Bump Test} been ( ) { }
performed this shift on the gas monitor to be used? .
D4 Dic you test the atmosphere of the confined space {() ({)
prior to entry?
6. Did the atmosphere check as acceptable {no alarms { 3} ( 3
Given)?
7 Wili the atmesphere be continuously monitored while (} ¢
the space is occupied?
o
Contact County Centrex for personnel rescue Dy local fire
department in the event of an emergency. iz cn-site art the
Regional Treatment Plant, contact the Plant Control Center fPCC) «
Dd ben } > Sed 4 m 5
Notice If any of the above questions are answered “no"’ do not
enter. Contact your immediate supervisor.

wed
Location
_—
LEAD MAN
signature : Date

415 of 891


--- page 416 ---
PERMIT REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE ENTRY PROGRAM

oe TB CCR 5156

Establish and implement a written Permit Required Confined
Space Entry Program that includes, but not limited to, the
- following elements:

As Implementations of the measure to prevent
unauthorized entry.

B. Identify and evaluate hazards prior to entry.

Ss Development and implement means, procedures and
practices for safe entry operations:
ix Specify acceptable entry conditions.
a Isolate permit space.
te Purge, inert, flush, or ventilate space.
4. Protect entrants from external hazards.
54 Verify acceptable conditions throughout

duration of entry.

Ds Provide appropriate equipment for:
La testing and monitoring,
23 ventilation,
34 communication,
Ae personal protection,
: Sy lighting;
ee 65 barriers and shields,

oo 75 ingress and egress,
a Bs rescuing,
93 other.
E. Evaluate conditions during entry operations.
Li Test conditions prior to entry.

2. Test conditions during operations,
as necessary. ,

3: Test in this order; Oxygen content,
Combustibility, Toxicity:

Fy Provide attendant; at least one.

G. Designate the persons who have active roles,
identify duties of:
1; Authorized entrants,
2's Attendants,
<n Entry supervisors,
Ae Persons who test and monitor.

H: Procedures for summoning rescue and. emergency
services.

Te System for preparation, issuance, and cancellation
of permits.

416 of 891


--- page 417 ---
PERMIT REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE ENTRY PROGRAM

Coordinate operations when employees of more than
one employer are authorized entrants
simultaneously.

Procedure for closing off space and cancelling
permit.

Review entry operations when there is doubt of
safety.

Review program at least annually.

417 of 891

~_


--- page 418 ---
GAS ALERT MICRO 5 PID

Follow safety rules at all times. Your life and the lives of your fellow

1)

3)

workers depend on it.

Always “quick check” your gas detector or continuously
monitor immediately before use each time at the work site.
Even if your company practice requires you to test your
equipment at the beginning of each shift, or at the work center,

anything can happen to your equipment en route from job to
job.

Test the atmosphere in a manhole before removing the cover
whenever possible, i.e.: through the cover puller access holes.

Never enter a manhole without first testing for combustible
gases and purging the atmosphere within the manhole with a
power ventilator. Then ensure continuous power ventilation
after you enter, and all the while you are working in a manhole.

if gas is detected and/or your unit alarms while you are working in
manhole, leave the manhole immediately. Do no re-enter until the
cause is determined and corrected.

Remember, it only takes a second for an accident to happen.

Qupwicorpyard\Sewers\SOPs\SS Manhole Monitoring Procedures.doc

Page 5 of 6

418 of 891


--- page 419 ---
After every attempt has not succeeded to restore the space to normal limits for gas
concentrations, the supervisor will work with local authorities to evacuate or correct or
remedy the problem, as necessary.

Note: If there is no hole in the manhole lid, create a work order to change out the lid,
after the scenario has ended. Give the work order to a lead worker.

Employee Responsibility

Employees must follow all City procedures to ensure personal safety and the safety of others
when responding to high/low gas alarms. Failure to do so may result in serious injury or fatal
consequences. Employees not sure of work environment shall contact a lead worker before
proceeding. It is each employee’s responsibility to operate the gas detection testing equipment
safely. Employees will properly maintain, inspect, test, and ensure the gas detection testing
equipment is within the calibration standards at the time of use.

Management Responsibility
Management is responsible for providing the proper equipment and training for employees and

for ensuring that employees follow the established procedures and guidelines. Management will
coordinate emergency activities with local authorities.

419 of 891


--- page 420 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE MONITORING PROCEDURES

Policy

Safe manhole monitoring procedures are required for all employees and contractors who open
manholes within the San Mateo service area,

Purpose

To ensure employee safety, establish procedures and responsibility for opening sanitary system
manholes.

Equipment

Gad detector

Manhole hook

Pry bar

Spark Resistant Sledge Hammer (when lid is stuck and no LEL is present)

Procedure

Testing

© Setup traffic control and secure the area.

e Using a multi-gas detector, place the tip of the hose into a vent hole of the space to be
tested Gust the tip of the probe — do not push probe into dustpan). if there is no vent hole,
crack the lid slightly using a pry bar and then prop the lid open just enough to insert the
gas detector hose into the space. Observing the meter on the detector, note the reading
for a minimum of 30 seconds. If no alarm sounds, the employee may remove the
manhole cover using a manhole hook. If the lid is stuck, a sledge hammer should be used
to break the seal before straining with a hook. If an alarm sounds, do not remove the
lid.

e Assess upstream and downstream structures (2 structures in each direction) using testing
protocol. If the readings are satisfactory at either of these locations, follow ventilation
procedures. Used forced air purge. DO NOT use a blower in the exhaust mode to purge
an LEL condition.

e If high readings continue, do not open the manhole. Contact your lead worker or
supervisor.

Q\pwicorpyard\Sewers\SOPs\SS Manhole Monitoring Procedures.doc Page 1 of 6
420 of 891


--- page 421 ---
e Remain at site until a lead worker or the supervisor arrives.

e When there is a question of an environmental impact, the employee will notify Source
Control. The designated Source Control Inspector will contact the customer, when
appropriate.

Carbon Monoxide (CO)

Below 25% - No alarm
Remove cover and proceed with work.

25% and above — Alarm
De not remove manhole lid; retest.

1) Ifan alarm condition exists, notify a lead worker.
2) Assess upstream and downstream structures (2 structures in each direction) using same
testing protocol. If the readings are satisfactory at either of these locations, follow

ventilation procedures.

3) Ifreadings continue to be unsatisfactory, select a structure with lowest reading levels;
position yourself up-wind and remove lid allowing for natural ventilation.

4) Ifnatural ventilation does not clear space, install a blower to power ventilate.
Hydrogen Sulfide Gas (H2S)

0-9 ppm — No alarm
Remove cover and proceed.

10-49 ppm — Alarm
Do not remove manhole lid; retest.

1) Assess upstream and downstream structures (2 structures in each direction) using same
protocol. Ifthe readings are satisfactory at either of these locations, follow ventilation

procedures.

2) Select structure with lowest level; position yourself up-wind and remove lid allowing for
natural ventilation.

3) Ifnatural ventilation does not clear space, install a blower to power ventilate.
Procedures for high LEL > 10%, Oxygen > 23.5% & H,S >50 PPM

1) Call (650) 522-7350 (lead worker) and ask for the COp fire extinguisher to be delivered.

Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SOPs\SS Manhole Monitoring Procedures.doc Page 2 of 6

421 of 891


--- page 422 ---
2) Meet with the reporting employee to verify the readings and continue to monitor the
space.

3) Wash down lid and the surrounding area with water to dampen the spark potential.

4) While continuing to monitor the space, use a 20-lb CO2 extinguisher, place the nozzle in
the lid vent hole or under the raised edge of the lid, and discharge the extinguisher gas to
insert the space.

5) Leave a gas detection device in place to monitor the space continuously, ensuring that the
CO> gas saturates the space, lowering the explosive potential (LEL).

6) When the manhole atmosphere becomes stabilized, stand up-wind of the structure and
immediately pull the lid to begin natural ventilation.

7) Remaining up-wind, retest the space. If the space cannot be naturally ventilated within
normal limits, install a blower to force ventilate the space. DO NOT USE EXHAUST
MODE TO REMOVE LEL.

8) Commence work after the space reaches normal limits.

If an employee cannot clear the condition by venting the up- or downstream-structure, he or she
will immediately contact a lead worker. All employees who open manhole lids shall follow
these procedures and guidelines.

e When there is a question of an environmental impact, industrial release or spill, the
employee will notify the Source Control Inspector. The designated Source Control
Inspector will contact the industrial customer, when appropriate.

Sampling of Manhole

Oxygen
19.5% - 23.5 % - No alarm
Remove cover and proceed with work.

Oxygen-Deficiency
Below 19.5% - Alarm and no other Alarms on the meter
Remove manhole lid; retest.

Oxygen-Enriched Atmosphere
Above 23.5% - Alarm

Do not remove manhole lid; retest.

1) Ifan alarm condition exists, notify a lead worker or supervisor.

Q:\pwicorpyard\Sewers\SOPs\SS Manhoie Monitoring Procedures.doc Page 3 of 6

422 of 891


--- page 423 ---
High oxygen levels accelerate combustion, which could also result in an explosive
condition even with low LEL readings. Use caution to avoid sparks and other ignition
sources, move vehicles and do not allow smoking in the area.

2) Assess up- and down-stream structures (2 structures in each direction) using testing

protocol. If the readings are satisfactory at either of these locations, follow ventilation
procedures.

3) Ifhigh readings continue, do not open the manhole. Contact your supervisor.

4) Remain at the site until a supervisor arrives.

5) When there is a question of an environmental impact, the employee will notify the Source
Control Inspector. The designated Source Control Inspector will contact the customer,
when appropriate.

Lower Explosive Limit
(LEL) Below 10% - No Alarm

Remove cover and proceed with work.

(LEL) 10% and above ~ Alarm
Do not remove manhole lid; retest.

1) Ifan alarm condition exists, notify a lead worker or supervisor.

Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SOPs\SS Manhole Monitoring Procedures.doc Page 4 of 6

~ 423 of 891


--- page 424 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O & M Program
APPENDIX 4.3
Pumpstations
Maintenance & Equipment
Last Update: 11/2020
424 of 891

--- page 425 ---
This page left intentionally blank
425 of 891

--- page 426 ---
PSNAME
TYPE
ID#
LOCATION
REDUND ALARMS* B_UPOWER
HOLDGHRS INLETDIA 
DISCDIA NUMPUM
CAPAC_1PUMP DAILYFLOWGPD*
TDYNHEAD
SANITARY SEWER PUMPSTATIONS
1 2ND/QUEBEC
2 38TH
SANITARY 
09J-SSPS1
SANITARY 
25M-SSPS1
SANITARY 
25N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
26N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
14G-SSPS1
SANITARY 
08I-SSPS1
SANITARY 
13K-SSPS1
SANITARY 
19N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
13M-SSPS1
SANITARY 
13N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
25O-SSPS1
SANITARY 
21O-SSPS1
SANITARY 
21P-SSPS1
SANITARY 
22P-SSPS1
SANITARY 
11N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
14O-SSPS1
SANITARY 
14N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
16N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
17O-SSPS1
SANITARY 
16O-SSPS1
SANITARY 
19J-SSPS1
SANITARY 
30F-SSPS2
SANITARY 
22N-SSPS1
SANITARY 
30F-SSPS1
SANITARY 
25O-SSPS2
203 S QUEBEC
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
ON-SITE
3 6
6
2
2
2
2
2
2
5
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
3
2
2
2
2
3
2
3
2
2
144000
10,800
13
26
54
30
30
12
3796 EL CAMINO REAL
3971 PACIFIC BLVD
1 W 42ND AVE
3 15
3 6, 8, 18
3 6
8
1152000
1296000
576000
576000
43200
240,000
216,000
83,600
80,400
8,400
3 41ST AVE
12
8
4 42ND AVE
5 ARROYO
20 ARROYO CT
3 8
8
6 CHATHAM EAST
7 DALE AVENUE
8 FLINT & NORFOLK
9 KEHOE/KELLY
205 N QUEBEC
3 8
8
DALE AVE
2413 S NORFOLK
2223 KEHOE AVE
2444 KEHOE AVE
95 LAURIE MEADOWS
3000 LOS PRADOS
3160 LOS PRADOS
3301 LOS PRADOS
408 ANCHOR RD
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
ON-SITE
3 10, 10
3 8
10
6
1008000
288000
288000
648000
1094400
525600
360000
172800
2016000
648000
1440000
432000
424800
1296000
72000
281,000
98,000
24,000
74,250
15
10
10
16
21
8
10 KEHOE/SCOTT
11 LAURIE MEADOWS
12 LOS PRADOS #1
13 LOS PRADOS #2
14 LOS PRADOS #3
15 MARINERS ISLAND #1
16 MARINERS ISLAND #2
17 MARINERS ISLAND #3
18 MARINERS ISLAND #4
19 MARINERS ISLAND #5
20 MARINERS ISLAND #6
21 MONGINI
3 8
6
3 12
10
8
3 12
307,800
105,120
63,000
3 8
8
3 8
8
10.5
48
75
32
5
3 8, 8
3 24
8
16,560
635 MARINERS ISLAND BLVD
894 NEPTUNE CT
MARINERS ISLAND/W CAPE
1659 VISTA DEL MAR
2021 WINWARD WAY
2005 PACIFIC BLVD
1932 PARKWOOD
404 SANTA CLARA
1629 TOYON
14
8
1,044,000
64,800
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
PORTABLE
3 8, 8
3 8, 8
3 6, 8
3 8, 8
3 15, 24
3 8, 8
3 10, 12
3 8, 8
3 8
10
8
114,000
109,800
54,870
15
11.5
15
90
45
80
12
8
10
4
669,600
10,350
720,000
5,400
22 PARKWOOD
23 SANTA CLARA
24 TOYON
14
4
1440000
72000
25 WOODBRIDGE
201 LAURIE MEADOWS
8
144000
26,100
STORM DRAINAGE PUMPSTATIONS
1 3RD/DETROIT
2 42ND AVE STORM
3 CASANOVA
4 COYOTE POINT
FATHOM
STORM
STORM
STORM
STORM
STORM
STORM
STORM
STORM
11M-SDPS1
26N-SDPS1
25O-SDPS1
05F-SDPS1
12N-SDPS1
23L-SDPS1
12M-SDPD1
07I-SDPS1
2002 DETROIT DR
2
3
4
4
2
2
5
3
4000 PACIFIC BLVD
4012 CASANOVA
20 S AIRPORT BLVD
400 FATHOM DR
HILLSDALE
3397 PACIFIC BLVD
2100 DETROIT DR
MARINA LAGOON
NEW POPLAR
BAYFRONT LEV/MONTE DIABLO
426 of 891

--- page 427 ---
PSNAME
P1INFO
P1INSTDATE P1REBUILD
P1MODEL
P1SERIAL
P2INFO
P2INSTDATE
P2REBUILD
P2MODEL
P2SERIAL
SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATIONS
2ND/QUEBEC
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
1981
1930
1962
1988
1963
1977
1991
1965
1958
1958
1971
1965
1959
1959
1966
2009
1968
1967
1983
1983
1996
1981
1989
1981
1973
2004 T4-A3-B
2008 T6A3-B
1998
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHA
GORMAN RUPP 10 HP 230V 3 PHAS
CORNELL 25 HP 230V 3 PHASE
PACO 5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
1981
2004 T4-A3-B
2009 T6A3-B
2003
38TH
GORMAN RUPP 10 HP 230V 3 PHASE
CORNELL 25 HP 230V 3 PHASE
PACO 5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
725342
1930
1962
1988
1963
1977
683998
41ST AVE
42ND AVE
2006
2008
ARROYO
GORMAN RUPP 10 HP 230V 3 PHASE
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
Large Pumps 1 thru 5 = Fairbanks Morse
FAIRBANKS 15 HP 230V 3 PHASE
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
CORNELL 10 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 1.5 HP 230 V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 5 HP 230 V 3 PHASE
CHICAGO 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FLYGT 30HP 480V 3 PHASE
2008 T4A3-B
1995 T4A3-B
2414
744414
GORMAN RUPP 10 HP 230V 3 PHAS
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHA
Smaller 2 Pumps = Gorman Rupp
FAIRBANKS 15 HP 230V 3 PHASE
GORMAN RUPP 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHA
FAIRBANKS 1.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
CORNELL 10 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 1.5 HP 230 V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 5 HP 230 V 3 PHASE
CHICAGO 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FLYGT 30HP 480V 3 PHASE
2005 T4A3-B
1995 T4A3-B
T10A-B
741115
CHATHAM EAST
DALE AVENUE
FLINT & NORFOLK
KEHOE/KELLY
KEHOE/SCOTT
LAURIE MEADOWS
LOS PRADOS #1
LOS PRADOS #2
LOS PRADOS #3
MARINERS ISLAND #1
MARINERS ISLAND #2
MARINERS ISLAND #3
MARINERS ISLAND #4
MARINERS ISLAND #5
MARINERS ISLAND #6
MONGINI
645907N
645908N
1983 5443B
2007 T4A3-B
1998
K3J1013936
K99931
1965
1958
1958
1971
1965
1959
1959
1966
2009
1968
1967
1983
1983
1996
1981
1989
1981
1973
2002 5443B
2004 TAA3-B
2006
K3J1013936_1
K99931
2004
2002
1998
K2B8036
KZ89127
1998
K2B8035
KZ89128
1997 5432AK
2002 4B5442K
1999
1989 5432AK
2003 4B5442K
2001
61-23170
820040
61-23478
3171
3171
820041
FAIRBANKS 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 25 HP 230V 3 PHASE
SMITH & LOVELESS 5HP 208V 3 PHASE
SMITH & LOVELESS 1.5 HP 208V 3 PHAS
FAIRBANKS
2009 5412B28
1997 5414C
1998
K2M1043718K
K2M1043717
831257
FAIRBANKS 7.5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 25 HP 230V 3 PHASE
SMITH & LOVELESS 5HP 208V 3 PH
SMITH & LOVELESS 1.5 HP 208V 3 P
FAIRBANKS
1981 5412B28
2003 5414C
1989
K2M1043718K
K2M1043717
831257
1995
831297
1999
2008
2009
PARKWOOD
PEABODY/BARNES 15HP 230V 3 PHASE
FLYGT 20HP 230V 3 PHASE [VFD]
PEABODY/BARNES 10HP 230V 3 PHASE
GORMAN RUPP 2 HP 230V 3 PHASE
2000
PEABODY/BARNES 15HP 230V 3 PH
FLYGT 20HP 230V 3 PHASE
1999
SANTA CLARA
TOYON
2007 3152
1981 SSC27
2008 T4A3-B
2006 3152
1989 SSC28
2004 T4A3-B
68895-1081
675716N
PEABODY/BARNES 10HP 230V 3 PH
GORMAN RUPP 2 HP 230V 3 PHASE
66108-180
675717N
WOODBRIDGE
STORM DRAINAGE PUM
3RD/DETROIT
125 HP 460V 3 PHASE
1983
1988
1968
1973
1966
1964
1983
WAUKESHA DIESEL ENGINE
1983
42ND AVE STORM
CASANOVA
1988
1988
JOHNSTON 25 HP 240V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 125 HP 480V 3 PHASE
FAIRBANKS 5 HP 230V 3 PHASE
30 HP
1968
GA3658
1968
GA3657
COYOTE POINT
FATHOM
1973
GD1709
JOHNSTON 40 HP 480V 3 PHASE
1973
GD1710
1985 6360
1964
2J2022362.2
1988 6360
1964
2J2022362.3
HILLSDALE
MARINA LAGOON
NEW POPLAR
CASCADE 100 HP 460V 3 PHASE
1973
1973 P-36
9137
AC 250 HP 460V 3 PHASE
1998 P-36
9138
427 of 891

--- page 428 ---
PSNAME
P3INFO
P3INSTDATE
P3REBUILD
P3MODEL
P3SERIAL
P4INFO
P4INSTDATE
P4REBUILD
P4MODEL
P4SERIAL
SANITARY SEWER PUM
2ND/QUEBEC
38TH
41ST AVE
42ND AVE
ARROYO
CHATHAM EAST
DALE AVENUE
FLINT & NORFOLK
KEHOE/KELLY
KEHOE/SCOTT
LAURIE MEADOWS
LOS PRADOS #1
LOS PRADOS #2
LOS PRADOS #3
MARINERS ISLAND #1
MARINERS ISLAND #2
MARINERS ISLAND #3
MARINERS ISLAND #4
MARINERS ISLAND #5
MARINERS ISLAND #6
MONGINI
FLYGT 30HP 480V 3 PHASE
2009
3171
820042
2006
PARKWOOD
SANTA CLARA
TOYON
FLYGT 20HP 230V 3 PHASE
2009 3152
WOODBRIDGE
STORM DRAINAGE PUM
3RD/DETROIT
42ND AVE STORM
CASANOVA
1988
1973
COYOTE POINT
FATHOM
TL320-1
P2C3004
5308
1973
P2F2559
HILLSDALE
MARINA LAGOON
NEW POPLAR
1982
15000
428 of 891

--- page 429 ---
City of San Mateo Department of Public Works
PUMPSTATION PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
PUMP
STATION
TYPE
JUL
AUG
SEPT
OCT
NOV
DEC
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUNE
MONGINI
ARROYO
PARKWOOD
TOYON
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
38TH
41ST
42ND
X
X
X
X
X
X
WOODBRIDGE
SANTA CLARA
X
X
X
X
LOS PRADOS
#1
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
LOS PRADOS #2
LOS PRADOS
#3
FLINT & NORFOLK
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
PARKSIDE AQ
KEHOE &
KELLY
X
X
X
X
KEHOE &SCOTT
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
2ND &
QUEBEC
CHATEM EAST
MARINERS #1
MARINERS #2
MARINERS #3
MARINERS #4
MARINERS #5
MARINERS #6
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
SANITARY
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Q\PW\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\O&M Program\Pumpstations\PumpstationPMSchedule
429 of 891

--- page 430 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.4
Sewer Maintenance Crew Training
430 of 891

--- page 431 ---
This page left intentionally blank
431 of 891

--- page 432 ---
City of San Mateo Environmental Services Division
Collections 2020 Safety Training Log
Staff
Aviles William
Provider
Training Topic
Date Completed
9/2/2020
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
Aviles William
2/18/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
5/19/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
2/18/2020
9/29/2020
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Camilleri, Steve
Camilleri, Steve
Camilleri, Steve
Camilleri, Steve
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Defensive Driver Safety
5/5/2020
7/15/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Chetcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Chettcuti, John
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
Asbestos and Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
5/19/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
2/11/2020
12/15/2020
9/22/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non -Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Back Safety
3/3/2020
2/18/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
Concrete/Silica Dust
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Du-All
Du-All
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
7/22/2020
12/1/2020
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Cisneroz, Richard
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
HazWOPER (First Responder)
8/13/2020
6/2/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
2/18/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Back Safety
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/21/2020
7/22/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
7/22/2020
6/9/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
10/27/2020
432 of 891

--- page 433 ---
City of San Mateo Environmental Services Division
Collections 2020 Safety Training Log
Staff
Di Matteo, John
Provider
Training Topic
Date Completed
11/3/2020
Du-All
Hot Work
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Di Matteo, John
Du-All
Personal Protective Equipment
1/21/2020
2/11/2020
12/15/2020
9/22/2020
Du-All
Respiratory Protection
CA DFEH
Du-All
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non -Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Elo, Luis
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
FEMA
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
3/3/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
9/2/2020
Concrete/Silica Dust
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
1/21/2020
5/5/2020
Confined Space
CPR/First Aid/AED
Defensive Driver Safety
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
6/8/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
2/11/2020
9/22/2020
3/13/2020
3/3/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Respiratory Protection
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Nims; ICS-100/ICE-200/IS-700/SEMS Introduction
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Fuentes, Manuel
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
3/3/2020
9/2/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
6/8/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Godinez, Jose
Godinez, Jose
Godinez, Jose
Godinez, Jose
Godinez, Jose
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
FEMA
Hazardous Waste Management
12/1/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
9/22/2020
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Nims; ICS‐100/ICE‐200/IS‐700/SEMS Introduction
10/23/2020
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Gudino, Carlos
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
Du-All
Back Safety
3/3/2020
9/2/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
5/19/2020
8/6/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non ‐Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
10/27/2020
2/11/2020
12/15/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
5/5/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Defensive Driver Safety
433 of 891

--- page 434 ---
City of San Mateo Environmental Services Division
Collections 2020 Safety Training Log
Staff
Mack Steven
Provider
Training Topic
Electrical Safety - Low Voltage
Date Completed
3/24/2020
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Mack Steven
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
1/14/2020
7/15/2020
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
12/1/2020
HazWOPER (First Responder)
8/6/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
2/11/2020
12/16/2020
9/22/2020
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non ‐Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Morkve, Eric
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
Du-All
Back Safety
3/3/2020
2/11/2020
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
7/15/2020
8/11/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
2/11/2020
12/16/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non ‐Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Padilla, Noel
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
5/5/2020
3/24/2020
1/14/2020
6/8/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/13/2020
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Defensive Driver Safety
Electrical Safety - Low Voltage
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
3/3/2020
Personal Protective Equipment
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Rodriguez, Mario
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
FEMA
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
5/5/2020
3/24/2020
1/14/2020
7/15/2020
8/6/2020
Back Safety
Blood borne Pathogens
Defensive Driver Safety
Electrical Safety - Low Voltage
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non ‐Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Nims; ICS‐100/ICE‐200/IS‐700/SEMS Introduction
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
1/14/2020
2/11/2020
12/16/2020
9/22/2020
3/1/2020
3/3/2020
Sandoval, Marcos
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
9/2/2020
434 of 891

--- page 435 ---
City of San Mateo Environmental Services Division
Collections 2020 Safety Training Log
Staff
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Sandoval, Marcos
Provider
Training Topic
Date Completed
3/3/2020
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
CA DFEH
Du-All
Du-All
Back Safety
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/14/2020
5/19/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/6/2020
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
7/15/2020
6/2/2020
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Hot Work
10/27/2020
11/3/2020
1/14/2020
2/11/2020
12/15/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Sexual Harassment Prevention Non ‐Management
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Valdivia, Eduardo
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
FEMA
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
9/2/2020
3/3/2020
Back Safety
Blood borne Pathogens
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
1/21/2020
6/8/2020
7/15/2020
12/1/2020
8/13/2020
7/15/2020
6/9/2020
10/27/2020
1/21/2020
2/11/2020
9/22/2020
3/3/2020
2/10/2020
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
Fire Extinguisher (Portable)
Forklift & Powered Industrial Trucks
Hazard Communication Globally Harmonized System
Hazardous Waste Management
HazWOPER (First Responder)
Hearing Conservation
Heat Illness Prevention & Summer Safety, Poison Oak & Bug Bites
Heavy Equipment (Earth Moving Equipment)
Personal Protective Equipment
Respiratory Protection
Spill Prev. Control and Countermeasure
Slip, Trip & Fall Prevention
Nims; ICS‐100/ICE‐200/IS‐700/SEMS Introduction
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Veamatahau, Sosefo
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Du-All
Asbestos & Lead Awareness
Back Safety
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
9/2/2020
2/11/2020
3/10/2020
5/5/2020
Blood borne Pathogens
Concrete/Silica Dust
Confined Space
Defensive Driver Safety
435 of 891

--- page 436 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.5
Manhole Inspection Program
436 of 891

--- page 437 ---
2011 - 2020 MANHOLE ASSESSMENT CONDITION PROGRAM (MACP)
ANNUAL INSPECTION SCHEDULE
Year
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
# Manholes
585
Cleaning Areas
C1a - C1i, C2a - C2g
549
507
583
499
546
594
545
552
C3a - C3e, C4a - C4j, D1a - D1f
D2a - D2l, D3a - D3f, D4a, D4b, D4c
D4d - D4l, E1a, E1b, E2a - E2d, E2k
E2e - E2j, E3a - E3m
E4a - E4e, E4g - E4r
E4f, E4s, E4t, E4u, A1a - A1i, A2a - A2h
A2i, A2j, A3a - A3i, A4a - A4d
A4e, A4f, B1a, B1b, B2a - B2f, B3a - B3g
B4a - B4p
465
437 of 891

--- page 438 ---
City of San Mateo
8. Date:
MANHOLE INSPECTION FORM
9. Time:
12. MH#/Struct ID:
41. Project:
37. Weather Code:
4. Drainage Area: Known
34. Sheet #:
N/A
6. PO#: 
N/A
33. Tape/Media #
N/A
34. Purpose of Survey:
36. Pre-Cleaning:
1. Surveyor's Name:
G
N
2. System Owner:
37. Date Cleaned:
San Mateo CS
00000000
51. Video Name:
3. Survey Customer:
31. Year Installed:
N/A
San Mateo CS
Known
1a Certification #:
N/A
32. Year Rehabilitated:
10a. City:
Z
10. MH Street Name & #:
San Mateo
11. Further Location Details:
20. Use: 
SS
35. Criticality Rating: TBD
38. MH Location Code:
43. Northing (Y):
44. Easting (X):
Verified
40. MH Surface Type:
41. I&I Potential:
48. Inspection Status:
Steps Present?
Verified
42. Access Point Type:
45. Elevation (Z):
46. Coordinate System:
Not Verified
NAD83CAIII
Subject to Dirt or Debris?
N 49. Evidence of Surcharge?
Y
Y
N
N
Y
47. Accuracy of GPS Code: 
N/A
ft
ft
13. Outgoing Rim to Invert:
14. Outgoing Grade to Invert:
15. Rim to Grade:
39. Additional Information:
(Or Sketch if different than map)
ft
Cover Type / Lid Diameter:
# of Holes in Lid/Hole Dia. Code:
Cover/Frame Fit:
in.
Barrel Diameter:
in.
Rodents:
H2S:
Initial Gas Detector Levels
O2:
LEL:
CO:
PHYSICAL DATA
Material Condition Comments:
Lid
Frame
Grade Rings
Cone
solid
adjustable
Flat-top
Concentric
Eccentric
Precast
Lined? Y N
Insert
Barrel/Wall
Bench/Shelf
Lined?
Lined?
Y
Y
N
N
U
Channel/Trough
Pipe
Formed
OVERALL RATING
OVERALL COMMENTS:
□
□
Good/Satisf (Inspect Annually)
Debris/Solids Buildup in MH
□
□
Other Maint (describe in comments)
Needs Repair (describe in comments)
*Sample Comments: Poor structural condition,
Serviceable, Broken, Unsafe, Damaged, Corroded, Missing Grout
Needs Raising, Needs Lowering, Misaligned, Leaking
Ill-fitting, Dirty, Bad joint, Roots, Grease, Infiltration, Cracks
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\Appendix\4 O & M Program\Appendix4.2 CCTV Standards\SM MH Insp
Form 2012.xlsx
438 of 891

--- page 439 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO - MANHOLE INSPECTION CODES
34. PURPOSE OF SURVEY
42. ACCESS POINT TYPE
Code
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
V
Description
Maintenance Related
I&I Investigation
Post Rehabilitation Survey
Pre Rehabilitation Survey
Pre-Acceptance (New MH)
Routine Assessment
CIP Assessment
Code
AMH
AWA
AOC
Description
Manhole
Wastewater Access
Other Special Chamber
Flow Meter Structure (not a MH with a flow
meter attached)
Wet Well
Junction Box
Property Cleanout
Cleanout on a Mainline
House Cleanout
Catch Basin
AM
AWW
AJB
ACOP
ACOM
ACOH
ACB
Resurvey for any reason
Reversal
Not Known
Z
37. WEATHER
Code
Description
Dry
Heavy Rain
Light Rain
Saturated
Damp
48. INSPECTION STATUS
1
2
3
5
6
7
Code
SI
Description
Surface Inspection
DI
RI
NF
NO
Descent Inspection (entered MH)
Remote inspection (use camera)
Structure Not Found
Not Opened – Cover could not be removed
Surcharged or Debris – Structure not
completed inspected b/c of debris or high
water
Very Dry
38. MH LOCATION
Code
A
B
D
E
SD
Description
Main Urban Hwy (92, 101)
Suburban Hwy (El Camino)
ROW – all other streets
Woods
NI
NA
Could not inspect b/c of traffic
Could not inspect b/c unable to gain access
Structure located but not excavated or
raised yet - marked but no inspection.
BM
F
Sidewalk
Parking Lot
Alley
Ditch
Building
Creek
Yard
Other (note in box 39)
STRUCTURE MATERIALS
G
H
I
J
K
Code
AC
BR
Description
Asbestos Concrete
Brick
CAS
CMP
CP
CSB
CSU
CT
Cast iron
Corrugated Metal Pipe
Concrete (non-reinforced)
Concrete Segments (bolted)
Concrete Segments (unbolted)
Clay Tile
Y
Z
40. MH SURFACE TYPE
Code
AS
CO
CC
GD
GR
ZZ
Description
Asphalt Street
Concrete Pavement
Concrete Collar
Grass or Dirt
Gravel
DIP
FRP
GRC
OB
Ductile Iron Pipe
Fiberglass Reinforced
Glass Reinforced Cement
Pitch Fiber (Orangeburg)
Polyethylene
PE
PP
Polypropylene
Other
PSC
PVC
RCP
RPM
SP
TTE
VCP
WD
XXX
ZZZ
Plastic/Steel Composite
PolyVinyl Chloride
Reinforced Concrete
Reinforced Plastic (Truss Pipe)
Steel
Transite
Vitrified Clay
Wood
Not Known
41. POTENTIAL FOR RUNOFF DURING STORM
Code
Description
None (MH will only receive direct
rainfall)
N
Sheeting (Rain falling may drain over
the MH)
Ponding (MH is at a low point where
water may collect during heavy rains)
Inundated (Covered by water 1 foot or
more during storms)
S
P
I
Other (state in comments)
VERMIN
Description
Rats
Roaches
Insects
Racoons
None
47. ACCURACY OF GPS
Code
M
Description
Sub-meter: w/in one meter (3 feet)
Nearest Meter: > or = 1 meter
Survey Level: ~5cm overall accuracy
N
L
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\MH Inspections\MH INSP CODES 1_12.doc
439 of 891

--- page 440 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO - MANHOLE INSPECTION CODES
MH COVER TYPE – Use more than one code as nec.
13. OUTGOING RIM TO INVERT:
Code
Description
Enter in feet (to the nearest tenth of a foot) the
distance between the rim level of the manhole
(top of manhole lid) and the invert (bottom of
channel).
1
2
Solid (concealed pick holes)
Vented (pick holes & vent holes
allow rain in)
3
Gasketed (gasket present to
prevent rain inflow)
4
5
Bolted
Inner Cover (a secondary lid is
installed under top cover)
Locking (requires special tool to
unlock and remove lid)
14. OUTGOING GRADE TO INVERT:
Enter in feet (to the nearest tenth of a foot) the
depth between the grade (ground) and the invert
(bottom of channel).
6
MH COVER HOLE DIAMETER
Code
Description
A
Less than or equal to ½ inch
Greater than ½ inch but less than or equal
to 1 inch
Greater than 1 inch but less than or equal
to 1.5 inches
CONE, WALL, BENCH, CHANNEL CONDITION
CODES: Use more than one code as nec.
B
C
Code
A
Description
Sound – no visible structural defects
Greater than 1.5 inches but less than or
equal to 2 inches
Greater than 2 inches
B
Cracked
D
E
CM
C
Cracks Multiple
Broken
MH COVER/FRAME FIT
D
Missing
Code
Description
Oversized (cover does not fit completely
onto frame)
DB
DA
DS
E
Displaced Brick
Deposits Attached
Deposits Settled
Corroded/Pitted
Needs Immediate Repair
Fracture Circumferential
Fracture Longitudinal
Fracture Multiple
Coated (coated or has a liner)
Loose/Not Attached
Offset
O
Good (Gap b/w cover and frame less than
or equal to ¼ inch)
G
U
F
Undersized (Gap b/w cover and frame is
more than ¼ inch)
Rocks/Wobbles (Cover unstable when
standing on it. Clatters when traffic drive
over)
FC
FL
FM
G
R
MH COVER, FRAME & RING CONDITION CODES–
Use more than one code as nec.
Code
A
H
I
Description
Sound – no visible structural defects
IS
Infiltration Stain
Infiltration Weeper
Infiltration Runner
Infiltration Gusher
Lining Failure
IW
IR
IG
LF
RF
RM
RB
Cracked – cover cracked but still in one
piece
B
C
D
Broken – cover broken and in loose pieces
Missing – or in the bottom of the manhole
Corroded/Pitted – So corroded it does not
sit properly on frame
Bolts Missing – some or all bolts not in
place
Roots Fine
E
F
Roots Medium
Root Ball
G
H
I
Coated (coated or has a liner)
Loose/Not Attached
Offset
WF
Weld Failure
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\MH Inspections\MH INSP CODES 1_12.doc
440 of 891

--- page 441 ---
City of San Mateo
SEWER MAINTENANCE
CITYWIDE MANHOLE INSPECTION PROGRAM
A2f
A2a
2018
A2h
A4a
A2d
A4b
2017
A2e
A4c
A2g
A4f
A2b
A1f
2019
A4d 
A4e
A2j
A2c
A2i
A3i
A3h
A1i
2018
C1a
A3g
C1b
A3f
A1b
A3d
C3e
A1d
A3e
A3b
C1d
C1e
A1h
C1c
A1g
B3e
B3c
B3f
2019
A1c
B3g
C1f
A3a
C2c
2011
A1e
B3a
C1i
C2d
A1a
B3d
C1g
C1h
D1a
C3d
A3c
B2f
B3b
C2f
C3c
D1b
D1f
C2g
C2e
B4i
B4b
B4o
D1c 2012
B4h
B4f
C2b
B2d
B2e
B2c
B4j
C3b
D1e
C3a
D1d
C2a
B1b
B2a
2020
B4p
2012
B4c
B4k
C4j
B2b
B4e
C4i
D3a
D3c
B4d
B4n
D3d
B4g
B4l
C4h
B1a
C4g
C4e
D3b
D2f
D2l 
D3f2013
C4f
B4a
B4m
D2e
D2k
C4c
D2j
2013
D4l
D2i
D2h
D2g
D3e
D2d
C4b
D2m
C4d
2014
E3k E3f
E3l
E3j
D2c
D2b
E3b
D4i
D4f
D4k
E3c
C4a
D4g
D2a
E3d
D4j
E3h
E3i
D4h
E4e
E4i
D4e
E3e
2015
D4d
E3m
E3a
E2h
D4c
E4p
E2b
E4q
D4a
2013
E3g
E2k
E4n
D4b
2016
E4h
E4u
E4f
E2j
E2g
E2i
E4r
2014
E2a
E4d
E4m
E4c
E4g
E4o
E2c
E2d
E4s2017
E4l
E4t
E4j
E2f
E4b
E4a
E1b
E4k
Citywide Manhole Inspections
E2e
E1c
Citywide Manhole Inspections
YEAR
# MH's
585
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
549
E1a
507
583
499
546
.
594
545
552
465
Q/PW/corpyard/Sewers/MH Inspections/MH Inspect Program 2011-2020
June 6, 2011
441 of 891

--- page 442 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.6
“Hot-Spots” & Leak Detection Program
442 of 891

--- page 443 ---
Last Updated: April 2014
City of San Mateo
Sewer Maintenance
CITYWIDE SEWER HOTSPOTS
Locations of Preventative Maintenance
Sewer Mainline Cleanings
!(
!(!(
!(!(
!( 
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!( !(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(!( !( !( !( !(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!( !( !( !( !(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!( !( !(
!(
!(!(!( 
!( !(
!(!( 
!(
!(
!(
!( !( !( !( !(
!( 
!(
!(!(
!(!(
!( !( 
!( !(
!(
!(
!( !( 
!(
!( !(
!( !( !(
!( !(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(!(
!(
!(!(!(
!(!( !( !( !(
!( !( !(!(!(!(
!( !(!(
!(!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!( !( !(!(!(!(
!(
!(!(!(!(
!(
!(
!( !( !(
!(
!(
!(!(!( !(
!( !( !(!(
!(!(!(!( !( !( !(
!( 
!(!(
!(
!(
!( !( !(
!(!( !(
!(
!(!(
!(
!( !(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!( 
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
CONCAR
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!( !(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(!(
!(!(
!( !(
!(
!(
!(!(!(
!(!(!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!( !(
!(!(
!( !(
!(!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!( !(
!(
!(
!(!( !( !(!( !(
!( !( 
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!( 
!(!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!( !(
!(
!(!(
!(!(
!( !(
!(
!(!(!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(!(
!( !(
!(
!(!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(
!(
!(!(
!(!(!(
!(!(!(!(
´
!(
!(
!(
MONTHLY PM
QUARTERLY PM
BIANNUAL PM
Q:\PW\corpyard\Sewers\SewerHotSpots\SewerHotSpotLocations2014
443 of 891

--- page 444 ---
SEWER PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE “HOT SPOTS” LIST
Last updated – August 15, 2014
MONTHLY SEWER PM’S
Location
Linear Feet 
Avg Hrs
Avg Cost 
Common Cond. Reason for PM
Smartcover on MH492-13. Clean
until repairs can be made by
engineering.
Refered to engineering for re-
engineering of pipe where dips
under utility junction box creating a
siphon, & to replace broken ECR
pipe.
1
2
31st & Hacienda
603
.75
$160
Roots
El Camino Real @ Baywood
3170 Casa de Campo
263
Solids
Baywood section removed 6-25-
2012.
3
4
661
1.3
3
$125
$310
FOG
FOG
Needs FOG education.
East Hillsdale Monthly
(entire length each month as of 3/11)
Needs FOG education & grease
interceptor.
1,288
Pipe taps in below water level of
trunk line.
Continue PM’s until Pipe upgraded
under 101.
5
6
Idaho (1113 College)
Indian
1132
519
2
2
$190
$185
FOG & Bad Grade
FOG
Keep on a monthly – but twice a
year flail line instead of jet. Refer to
Source Control for FOG control &
checks of grease trap.
Peninsula Monthly Jet
NOTE: Flail in Jan & July
7
2,581
2.5
$300
FOG
Added to PM’s May, 2008. Jet main
and 100’ of Lateral into Marina
Market.
8
9
Norfolk & La Selva
1st & Delaware
308
522
1.4
.75
$125
$85
FOG
Lines consistently plugged with
paper.
PAPER
Continue monthly cleaning until re-
engineered. Extended to ECR &
Central Park bathrooms flowing to
ECR on 9-9-2011.
10 9th Ave – RR to Palm Ave
1,016
2
$190
Grade Issues
11 315 Virginia – Monthly Flail
12 Winway Powerrod
338
173
1
1
$130
$75
Roots
Roots – Added to PM’s March 2010
Solids
A siphon MH
2049 Shoreview – drop pipe (needs
to be fixed in order to reach/cut
protruding tap at 2045). Also nozzle
13 
Shoreview
853
Breaks/Roots
1
$155
C:\Users\kbuchanan\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files\Content.Outlook\L7X4AIGB\PMChartMASTER.doc
444 of 891

--- page 445 ---
gets stuck at 2001 – 2005.
14 
Kingridge
1210
650
FOG, Solids
FOG, Solids
Added 4-9-13.
Additional lines requested by
Rick Pina 3-18-14.
15 
Indian Additional Lines
TOTAL LF:
12,117
QUARTERLY SEWER PM’S
Location
Linear Feet 
Avg Hrs
Avg Cost 
Common Cond. 
Reason for PM
20TH Avenue
25th Avenue & Lula Belle Alley
Moved to Bi-Annual per Steve
Camilleri 8-12-14
1
2
2,150
4
$380
FOG
Restaurants. Needs FOG control.
Added to PM’s March 2010.
Engineering fixed pipe 7-11-2012.
Removed from PMs.
Added to PM’s Feb 2011. Flat line
– holds solids.
Initially, change from Qrtly jet to
Qrtly Flail. Refer to Engineering for
pipe replacement & size upgrade.
26th  & Dolores
3
4
5
6
Bayswater & Idaho Qrtly
Bromfield / Fulton Qrtly Flail
Downtown Region 1
3,214
1733
1,623
Heavy FOG
4
$335
$330
Solids & Roots
FOG / Solids
3.5
Restaurants & Apts
7
8
9
Downtown Region 2A
Downtown Region 2B
Downtown Region 3A
1,406
6,600
3,165
2.7
10.5
6.6
$235
$940
$600
FOG / Solids
FOG / Solids
FOG / Solids
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
10 Downtown Region 3B
11 Downtown Region 4A
2,738
5,183
4,791
6.2
5.2
$540
$470
$680
FOG / Solids
FOG / Solids
FOG / Solids
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
12 Downtown Region 4B
7.75
Downtown Region 5
(Starting July 2010)
13
5,949
6
$1550
FOG / Solids
Restaurants & Apts
14 Ellsworth / Baldwin (DT 6)
2,830
2,718
2,097
6
$590
$500
$235
FOG/Solids
FOG
Restaurants & Apts
15 El Camino Real – Seville to 16th
Referred to Engineering for repair of
sag.
5.2
2.4
16 El Camino Real 21st to 25th
FOG
Restaurants & Apts.
C:\Users\kbuchanan\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files\Content.Outlook\L7X4AIGB\PMChartMASTER.doc
445 of 891

--- page 446 ---
17 El Camino Real 25th to 31st
3,080
870
5.8
$350
$200
FOG
FOG
Restaurants & Apts.
18 31st Ave – El Camino to Edison
Mall foodcourt grease. FOG
Control.
2.25
19 42nd Ave & 
Dumont
Continue PM’s & identify root
control tactics.
709
163
1.3
2.5
$105
$230
$205
FOG
Solids
FOG
20 Winway Jet & Vacuum MH
21 1750 El Camino Real
A siphon MH
Added back in to PM’s 1/2009 after
backups.
1,085
2.15
Added in 2011. Flat line – holds
FOG.
FOG consistently crusted on top
inside manholes
Added 1-6-12. Siphon manholes –
fill up with rags, etc.
Moved to Bi-Annual per Steve
Camilleri 8-12-14
22 El Camino & El Cerrito
23 Woodbridge
194
535
166
2.25
$210
FOG
24 Palm Ave siphons
25 Elm Street
Added 3-14-12. Ongoing solids
issues in area per pump and sewer
crews.
SOLIDS
26 Mariners Island 6
316
SOLIDS
SOLIDS
SOLIDS
FOG
Added 2-25-13. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
Added 2-25-13. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
Added 4-30-13. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
Added 8-1-13. Heavy FOG per
Steve Camilleri, SUPV
27 111 E Santa Inez
28 McLellan & Curtiss
29 177 N El Camino Real
30 145 Sylvan
228
1803
229
835
SOLIDS
SOLIDS
SOLIDS
Added 1-30-14. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
Added 1-30-14. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
Added 1-30-14. Solids issues in
area per Steve Camilleri, SUPV
31 Crystal Springs Road
32 37th and ECR
1145
472
33 6 Fairoaks
162
TOTAL LF:
58,189
BI-ANNUAL SEWER PM’S
C:\Users\kbuchanan\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files\Content.Outlook\L7X4AIGB\PMChartMASTER.doc
446 of 891

--- page 447 ---
Location
Linear Feet 
Avg Hrs
Avg Cost 
Common Cond. Reason for PM
Alder Easement
MARCH/SEPT
Added to PM’s May 2008. A Sept &
March Bi-Annual.
1
2
617
2.3
$150
Barneson & El Camino Real
JAN/JULY
Changed back to Jet from PR per
Steve Camilleri.
439
285
1.5
1.4
$130
$80
Roots
Roots
509 Castilian Powerrod
JAN/JULY
515 Dorchester Powerrod
JAN/JULY
El Camino Real – Hillsdale to
38th
Refer to engineering to repair break
and offset joint.
3
4
PM removed per Steve Camilleri. 8-
12-14.
th
st
Used to be ECR 36 to 41 . Split
into 2 PM’s & Added 15” lines.
5
3131
FOG
JAN/JULY
th
st
Used to be ECR 36 to 41 . Split
El Camino Real – 38th to 41st
JAN/JULY
6
7
1347
568
6
$585
$200
FOG
into 2 PM’s & Added 15” lines.
Edison & Bayview
JAN/JULY
.75
Roots
Holland / Norfolk / Hosmer
Hydrosaw
8
1,327
3.5
$285
FOG
Hydrosaw to clear line.
JAN/JULY
Holland / Norfolk / Hosmer Jet
APRIL/OCTOBER
9
1,327
309
2.6
1
$245
$105
FOG
1865 Kehoe
JAN/JULY
10
FOG & Solids
MI II PS to Bridgepointe Circle
11 JAN/JULY – Pumpstation Rehab
Pumpstation rehabilitation project
complete – repair of pipe sag
unknown.
1,210
1,752
1
$80
Sag
Complete
12 Murphy Easement
Roots/breaks. Added in 2011
Refer to Engineering for pipe
replacement & upsize – replace
possibly past Crescent to where
upper Poplar pipe was replaced w/in
last few years.
Poplar – Crescent to El Camino
JAN/JULY
13
2,103
938
4
$425
Roots
Sunnybrae School
14 Clean during Summer and Easter
Break (July & March/April)
Added to PM’s March 2010.
Updated 12-29-11. Added line.
Debris
C:\Users\kbuchanan\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files\Content.Outlook\L7X4AIGB\PMChartMASTER.doc
447 of 891

--- page 448 ---
19 Wildwood
JAN/JULY
258 East 40th Ave
JAN/JULY
15
16
17
342
248
117
2
1
$150
$80
Roots
Sags
Continue PM’s.
House 258 Backs Up if line not
cleared regularly b/c of sags.
139 Arbor
JAN/JULY
Added 3-14-12. Solids issues in
area per sewer crew feedback.
SOLIDS
Gramercy at El Cerrito (formerly
18 
80 El Cerrito Quarterly)
Added 12-29-2011. Sag in pipe.
Clean until can be repaired. Moved
to bi-annual April 2012.
157
941
APRIL/OCT
Added 3-14-12. Area notorious for
FOG. Changed from Quarterly to Bi-
Annual per Steve Camilleri 8-12-14.
Det (from apts) & Roots (by Elks)
below City Hall back up line – can
overflow in City Hall. Changed from
Quarterly to Bi-Annual per Steve
Camilleri 8-12-14.
19 Elm Street
1
$125
$535
FOG
20 20TH Avenue
2,950
5.5
Det & Roots
TOTAL LF:
20.108
TOTAL LINEAR FEET IN HOT-SPOT PROGRAM = 90,414 (as of 8-15-14)
NOTE: Additional Quarterly = Clean pipe and grate at Shellmound Gurgle (added 3-14-12)
C:\Users\kbuchanan\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files\Content.Outlook\L7X4AIGB\PMChartMASTER.doc
448 of 891

--- page 449 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Sewer Maintenance
Work Order # _______________
_______________, '09 '10 '11
Quarterly PM Map
1750 El Camino Real
# Blocked mains with
MH holding water: __________
DATE:
______________
______________
CREW #:
EMPLOYEES: ______________
______________
16TH
START TIME: ______________
END TIME:
VEHICLE:
______________
______________
DATE:
______________
367-13
BOREL
BOREL
CREW #:
______________ OUTH
EMPLOYEES: ______________
______________
17TH
367-31
367-CO1
START TIME: ______________
END TIME:
VEHICLE:
______________
______________
367-32
367-33
388-06
18TH
Please fill in boxes with problem found for each pipe segment.
19TH
449 of 891

--- page 450 ---
Quarterly Inspections of Sewer Pipes Spanning Waterways
Program Start: March 2012
WOID
96628
96626
96625
96612
96629
96627
96631
96630
Description
Qrtly Schedule Dispatch To Address
Requested By
Comments
March, June,
12/01/2020 Monthly check for pipe leaks in
pipes over creeks. No leaks, pipe sound.
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Mainline
Inspect Lateral
Inspect Lateral
Sept., Dec.
UTILITY05, 
ARROYO COURT 24121X_26205X 8" MAIN
PREVNT MAINT,
PREVNT MAINT,
PREVNT MAINT,
PREVNT MAINT,
PREVNT MAINT,
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
413 W HILLSDALE BLVD 51222X_51218X 6"
UTILITY05, 
MAIN
12/01/2020Monthly check for pipe leaks in
pipes over creeks. No leaks, pipe sound.
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
CLEARVIEW OFFICE PARK ‐ HILLSDALE/92
UTILITY05, 
40401X_40409X
12/01/2020 Monthly check for pipe leaks in
pipes over creeks. No leaks, pipe sound.
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
12/01/2020 Monthly check for pipe leaks in
pipes over creeks. No leaks, pipe sound.
UTILITY05, 
523 LA CASA ‐ BELMONT BORDER
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
12/02/2020 PM check for leaks/sewage
entering waterway. No leaks. Pipe sound
UTILITY05, 
809 BROMFIELD 154CO3_15401X 6" MAIN
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
12/02/2020 Monthly check for pipe leaks in
pipes over creeks. No leaks, pipe sound.
UTILITY05, 
2629 MONTEREY CT 44811X_44810X 6" MAIN PREVNT MAINT,
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
12/02/2020 Monthly check for leaks/sewage
entering waterway. No leaks. Pipe sound
UTILITY05, 
400 HILLSBOROUGH LATERAL
UTILITY05, 
725 & 751 EDGEWOOD LATERALS
PREVNT MAINT,
PREVNT MAINT,
March, June,
Sept., Dec.
12/02/2020 Monthly check for leaks/sewage
entering waterway. No leaks. Pipe sound
450 of 891

--- page 451 ---
SEWER MAINTENANCE:
PM Request
SEWER PIPES OVER CREEKS
Quarterly Check for Leaks
SUPERVISOR INSTRUCTIONS
Supervisor: 
Bob and Ed
Date of Request 
June 1, 2012
Submitted To (crew): 
June 1, 2012
Expected Completion Date: 
June 15, 2012
413 W Hillsdale Blvd
LOCATION/ADDRESS: Mainline 51222X_51218X
RECENT CONDITION/
PROBLEM FOUND Sewer Main spans creek
REASON FOR DISPATCH
PM – check for leaks/sewage entering waterway
(PRIOR HISTORY)
Instructions: Please check for leaks/Report on condition of pipe
CREW ACTIONS
START DATE:
CLOSE DATE:
ARRIVAL TIME:
TIME COMPLETE:
EMPLOYEES:
PIPE LEAKING?
Y
N
CONDITION OF PIPE:
Sound
Repair in future
Repair soon
Broken/leaking
VEHICLES:
MATERIALS:
Other Crew Comments if Necessary:
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SewerQrtlyLeakInspections\InspectionForms\LeakInspections_413 W Hillsdale Blvd.doc
451 of 891

--- page 452 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.7
Sewer Maintenance Dedicated
Equipment and Personnel
452 of 891

--- page 453 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
OERP Appendix 4
EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL
APPENDIX 4.7
Equipment dedicated to maintenance of the sewer collection system
Quantity
7
EQUIPMENT
Generator
PURPOSE
Backup power for pump stations
G9,G10,G11,G12,G13,G14,G15
1
1
1
1
1
1
Pickup F350
Emergency Response L50
Pickup F350
Sewer Leadworker Truck L12
F150 Electric
Supervisor/Leadworker Truck L79
Pump station Maintenance Tools, Parts & Equipment L63
Pump station Maintenance L86
Spill Response S80
Truck F250
Truck F550 with Boom
Gorman-Rupp 6” portable
pump
1
1
1
3
Backhoe
Repair excavationS51
Mini excavator
Dump truck
Repair excavation S85
Repair hauling M40
Vac-Con combo truck
Ford Transit electric van
Preventative Maintenance T58 T59 T63
1
1
Cctv crawler system, portable cctv for easements L39
Emergency SSO Response T61
Trailer – Emergency SSO
Response
1
3
1
Power rodder
Portable cctv
Crawler cctv
Mechanical cleaning T57
Quick inspection, emergency location
Inspection, sanitary cleaning inspections(see above L39)
Back up Equipment
QUANTITY
EQUIPMENT
PURPOSE
1
1
XL12
Medium duty truck
Maintenance XT63
Vac-con combo truck
Personnel dedicated to maintenance of the sewer collection system
Quantity
1
EQUIPMENT
PURPOSE
Sewer Supervisor
Oversee Sewer Operations and Maintenance Programs –
Pump Crew, Maintenance Crew, Emergency Response,
CCTV
1
1
1
1
0
5
Pump Mechanic 1/2
Pump Mechanic 2
Pump Mechanic 3
Sewer Leadworker
Sewer Leadworker
Maintenance Worker 2
Pump station Maintenance
Pump station Repair & Maintenance
Oversee Pump Crew
Oversee/Assist Preventative Maintenance sewer storm
Oversee/Assist emergency response, pump crew
Preventative Maintenance sanitary/storm, emergency
response/repair, cctv,
8
Maintenance Worker 1
Preventative Maintenance sanitary/storm, emergency
response/repair, cctv,
Last update: 03-27-25
453 of 891

--- page 454 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 4 – O&M PROGRAM
APPENDIX 4.8
Collection System Maps and Information
454 of 891

--- page 455 ---
Table of Contents
 4.8.A.i ‐ Underground Utilities Map Page
 4.8.A.ii ‐ Sewer Pumpstations and Trunklines Map
 4.8.A.iii ‐ Sewer Collection System Pipe Sizes
 4.8.A.iv ‐ Sewer Collection System Terrain Map
 4.8.A.v ‐ Sewer Collection System Basin Map
 4.8.A.vi ‐ Sewer Collection System Subbasin Map
 4.8.A.vii ‐ Sewer Collection System Cleaning Areas Map (Current
Snapshot)
 4.8.A.viii ‐ Sewer District Cleaning Schedule Maps (Current Snapshot)
 4.8.A.ix – Sewer Root Foaming Schedule Map (Current Snapshot)
455 of 891

--- page 456 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer Collection System
Pumpstations Map
!
!
^_ ! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!!!!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
! !
!
!
!!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
! !
!
!! !!
! !
! !
!
!
!!! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
! ^_
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!! !!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!!
!
!!!
!!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
! !
! !
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!!
!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
§¨¦
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
! 
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
101
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!!
!!! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!! !
!
!
! !
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!!!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!!!
!! 
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!!!
!!
!
!
! !!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!! 
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!!!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!^_
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!!! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !! 
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!! !
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!!
!
!
! ^_
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
! !
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
! !
!^_
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!! !!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
§¨¦
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
92
!! ! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ^_
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
! !
! ! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
! !
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
! !
!
!!!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
! !! !!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!! !!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!
!!
!
!
!
_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! ! !
!!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
§¨¦
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
92
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
!! 
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!!
!
!! 
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
! !
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!^_
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!! !
!
!
!
^_
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
^_
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
! !
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! ! !
!
!
! !
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!!
! ! !!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Sewer Manholes
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
! !
!
^_
!
!!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!!!
!
! !!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Sewer Pumpstations
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
! ! !
!
!
!
! ! !
!!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
Sewer Mainlines
Sewer Trunklines
Sewer Interceptors
Force Outfall
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
! !
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
! !
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
EXHIBIT 4.8.A.ii
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
! !
!!
!
!
!
!
!
WWTP
!
!!
!
!
!
!
September 2006
!
!
!
!
!
!!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits\Exhibit4.1.A.iiTrunksandPSs
! !
!
!
!!
456 of 891

--- page 457 ---
GRAVITY SEWERS
FORCEMAIN
% of Active
Force
System
(by length)
5%
2.40%
9.70%
16%
% of Active
Gravity
System
(by length)
0.20%
60%
22.10%
5.20%
3%
City of San Mateo
Sewer Collection System
Summary of Piipe Sizes
Length
(mi)
0.32
0.15
0.6
1
0.43
1.4
0.8
0.9
0.5
0.1
Length
Pipe Dia. (inch.)
Length (ft)
1,691
795
Pipe Dia. (inch.)
Length (ft)
2,609
(mi)
0.50
135.00
50.00
11.70
6.83
0.07
6.04
6.76
1.36
2.20
1.00
1.25
0.80
1.12
0.95
0.02
225.6
4
6
8
10
12
14
21
30
4
6
8
10
12
14
15
18
21
24
27
30
33
36
39
48
712,325
264,841
61,919
35,985
372
31,908
35,699
7,162
11,602
5,304
6,547
4,061
5,904
2,962
5,572
2,283
7,490
4,118
4,797
2,521
548
7%
~
22.60%
12.90%
14.50%
8%
1.60%
100%
2.70%
3%
0.60%
1%
0.40%
0.60%
0.30%
0.50%
0.40%
~
33
36
SUBTOTAL:
32,777
6.2
54" OUTFALL
3,382
0.6
5,016
117
1,191,371
TOTAL SEWERS: 
1,227,530
232.4
SUBTOTAL:
100.00%
Abandoned Gravity: 10,062 lf (1.9mi)
Abandoned Forcemain: 2,826 lf (.5mi)
²
WWTP
Mains (4" - 8")
Trunklines (10" - 33")
Interceptors (36" + )
EXHIBIT 4.8.A.iii
54" Force Outfall
December 2008
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits\Exhibit4.1.A.iii_PipeSize
457 of 891

--- page 458 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer Collection System
Terrain Map
WWTP
Sewer Mainlines
²
EXHIBIT 4.8.A.iv
September 2006
Q\PW\corpyard\sewers\SSMP\MapProjects\Exhibit4.1.A.ivTerrainMap
458 of 891

--- page 459 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SEWER BASINS
A
C
B
D
E
E
WWTP
Sewer Mainlines
•
EXHIBIT 4-8.A.v
May 2007
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits
459 of 891

--- page 460 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SEWER SUBBASINS
A2
A3
A4
C1
A1
B3
C3
C2
D1
B2
B4
D3
C4
D2
D4
E3
E2
E4
E1
WWTP
Sewer Mainlines
•
EXHIBIT 4-8.A.vi
May 2007
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits
460 of 891

--- page 461 ---
A2f
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SEWER CLEANING AREAS
A2a
A2h
A4a
A2d
A4b
A4c
A2e
A2j
A2g
A4f
A2b
A4e
A2c
A3i
A4d
A3h
A2i
A3d
C1a
A1d
A1c
A3g
C1b
C1c
A1b
A3f
A3e
A1f
C3e
C1d
C1e
C1f
A1g
B3c
B3e
B3f
B3d
A3b
A3a
B3g
C2c
B3a
C1i
A1e
C2d
A1a
C1g
D1a
A3c
C1h
D1e
C3d
B3b
C3c
D1b
D1f
C2e
B4i
C2b
B4b
B4h
D1c
B2d
B2e
B2c
B2f
B4j
C3b
B4o
B4p
C3a
D1d
C2a
B4f
B4e
B1b
B2a
B4c
B4k
C4j
B2b
C4i
D3a
D3c
D3b
B4d
D3d
B4g
B4l
C4h
C4f
B1a
C4g
C4e
B4n
D2h
D2d
B4a
B4m
D2g
D3f
E3f
D2c
C4c
D2f
D4j
D2e
D3e
C4b
C4d
E3b
D2b
D4f
D4g
D4i
E3c
C4a
D2a
E3d
D4h
D4c
E3e
E3f
E4e
E4i
D4e
D4d
D4b
E3a
E2b
E3g
E4h
E2a
E2h
E2g
D4a
E4d
E4c
E4g
E2c
E2d
E4f
E2i
E4j
E2f
E4a
E4b
E1b
WWTP
E2e
Sewer Mainlines
•
EXHIBIT 4-8.A.vii
E1a
Dec 2008
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits
461 of 891

--- page 462 ---
Citywide Sewer Mainline
Cleaning Schedule
SSML CleaningSchedule
ANNUAL
•
BIANNUAL
May, 2007
EXHIBIT 4.8.A.viii
3 YEARS
Q:\pw\corpyard\Sewers\SSMP\Binder\4_O & M Program\Maps_Exhibits\Exhibit4.1.A.viiiCleaningSchedule
462 of 891

--- page 463 ---
O
EXHIBIT 4.8.a. ix
Root Foam Boundaries
2013/2015
2014
2013, 2014, 2015 SEWER
MAINLINE ROOT FOAM SCHEDULE
July 14, 2015
Q:\pw\PWENG\HULTEN\CDO_Reporting\6_23_15 data request\13_14_15_Root_Foam.mxd
463 of 891

--- page 464 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – SPILL EMERGENCY
RESPONSE PLAN
Appendix 6.1 – Contingency Equipment
Appendix 6.2 – SPILL Field Procedures
Appendix 6.3 – Investigation and
Documentation Forms
Appendix 6.4 – Spill Calculation and
Estimation
Appendix 6.5 – Signage and Posting
Procedures
Appendix 6.6 – Water Quality Monitoring
Program
Appendix 6.7 – Spill Technical Report
464 of 891

--- page 465 ---
This page left intentionally blank
465 of 891

--- page 466 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.1
Contingency Equipment
466 of 891

--- page 467 ---
This page left intentionally blank
467 of 891

--- page 468 ---
LIST OF PARTS & CONTIGENCY EQUIPMENT FOR
SANITARY SEWER SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE:
RESPONSE
VEHICLE
Truck
L50
F350 Pickup
QTY
SPILL RESPONSE EQUIPMENT IN VEHICLE
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
4
2
4
2
3
3
2
1
2
1
6” to 10” air plug
10” to 24” air plug
Air tank and air compressor
Spill Kit (pads, gloves, etc.)
6 foot booms
5 foot retrieval pole
Sampling Kit with Instructions
Extra Sample bottles
6” to 8” inflatable air plug
8” to 12” inflatable air plug
12” to 18” inflatable air plug
2” flt pump
Truck with shell
L79
Ranger
Electric air compressor
Cigarette air compressor
5 gallon air tank
Water sampling kit
Bag of extra sample bottles
Water sampling pole
Raw sewage signs for cones
Sidewalk closed signs for cones
No parking signs
Flooding signs for barricades
Safety cones
Safety traffic poles (spill area)
Spill kits
Drain pig insert
Flashlights (1 mag, 1 large)
Camera
multiple Spill Reporting field forms
Gorman-Rupp 6” portable pump
PLUGS/HOSES
Portable
Emergency
Spill Response
Trailer - T61
1
1
1
1
2
1
2
1
4” plug
6” plug
12” plug
4” – 6” inflatable air sewer plug
8” – 12” inflatable air sewer plug
10” – 16” inflatable air sewer plug
12” – 18” inflatable air sewer plug
15” – 21” Plug
Last Updated 05-31-23
CONTINGENCY PARTS & EQUIPMENT
468 of 891

--- page 469 ---
Emergency
Spill Response
Trailer - T61
cont.
1
1
1
1
1
18” – 24” Plug
6” flow thru plug
8” flow thru plug
3.5 suction pump 150 discharge
12ft suction hose
SIGNS/BARRICADES
Caution tape rolls
3
10
14
6
Cone arrow signs
Hazard – raw sewage sign
Men working signs
2
2
Lane closed cone sign
Sidewalk closed cone sign
Green flag markers
No parking signs
Raw sewage barricades
Barricades
20
25
5
10
6
High level signs
3
2
1
10
Danger – avoid water contact signs
Warning – keep out signs
50ft temporary fencing
delineators
LIGHTING
1
2
1
1
1
Flashlight
Dual 500W flood lights with stands
G.F.I.
2100 GENERATOR/LIGHT
20W Halogen replacement
SAMPLING
multiple Sampling Kits
multiple Extra sample bottles and labels
CLOTHING
multiple Medium, Large & X-Large Leather Gloves
multiple Medium, Large & X-Large Rubber Gloves
multiple Small, Medium & Large Nitrile Rubber Gloves
multiple Small, Medium & Large Blue Dipped Cotton Gloves
multiple Ear Plugs
multiple Clear & Dark pyramex sunglasses
multiple Hardhats
multiple Rainsuits
multiple Large, X-Large & XX-Large Safety Vests
Last Updated 05-31-23
CONTINGENCY PARTS & EQUIPMENT
469 of 891

--- page 470 ---
AIR COMPRESSOR
11 gallon air tank
5 gallon air tank
Small air compressor
25ft air hose
Air gauges
Blow tool
2 gallon fuel container
Emergency
Spill Response
Trailer - T61
cont.
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
DIVERSION/CONTAINMENT
multiple absorbent
2
2
5
Cases ultra-spill berm
Emergency Spill Kit
Bags white oil spill booms
OTHER
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
2
1
3” to 1” fire adapter
3” to 2” fire adapter
25ft measuring tape
Green spray paint
White spray paint
Stapler gun
Spanner wrench
Duct tape rolls
manhook
First Aid Kit
camera
Fire Extinguisher
Fill buckets
Clip board
Multiple Cone reflectors
1
1
4
1
25ft extension cord
100ft extension cord
42x40 plastic wrap cases
20x100 6m roll vis.
multiple disinfectant
multiple Hand sanitizers
multiple Soap bottles
15
2
3
towels
Glow stick cases
Power flairs
multiple Tie straps
1
1
1
Water cooler
Broom
EZ up tent
Last Updated 05-31-23
CONTINGENCY PARTS & EQUIPMENT
470 of 891

--- page 471 ---
Vactors
T59 & T58
1
1
1
First Aid kit
Spot Light
Flashlight
1
1
Fire extinguisher
Spill Kit
1
Camera
12
1
Safety cones
Sampling Kit
Last Updated 05-31-23
CONTINGENCY PARTS & EQUIPMENT
471 of 891

--- page 472 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – SERP
APPENDIX 6.2
Spill Field Procedures
472 of 891

--- page 473 ---
This page left intentionally blank
473 of 891

--- page 474 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL PROCEDURE FLOWCHART
Exhibit A
SPILL FIELD PROCEDURES FLOW CHART
ARRIVAL OF CREW
PHOTOGRAPH SOURCE OF SPILL & AFFECTED AREA
CHECK UNDERGROUND MAP BOOK
Refer to Sewage Watershed Map.
Has spill reached receiving waters either
directly or through a catchbasin that runs
directly to waters?
YES
Identify affected watershed.
Page 17
NO
ASSESSMENT
Has spill reached Storm Drains?
If more than 10,000 gallons reached a
waterway, direct staff to:
YES
NO
Implement Beach
/Park Contaminated
Water Postings.
(Procedures on
PAGE 15)
PHOTO POSTED
LOCATIONS
Can the spill be contained in the storm
drain (entered a bubble-up – or storm
drain can be plugged)?
Implement
Sampling.
(Requirements on
PAGE 37)
NO
YES
PHOTO SAMPLE
LOCATIONS
Insert plug downstream if
not a bubble-up.
Deliver samples to
labs. Return to provide
assistance at spill site.
Return to
provide
assistance at
spill site.
Barricade spill area and post
Warning: Raw Sewage signs to ensure no public
contact with spill.
BARRICADE &
POST
PHOTOGRAPH BARRICADED AREA
Use berms, mats, soil or other methods to
Divert flow away from: 
Channel flow towards:
● Storm drains not acting as spill containment,
&
● A low area of ground where spill can be
collected, &/or
DIVERSION &
CONTAINMENT
● Waterways
● Other sensitive areas
● A downstream manhole, &/or
● A bubble-up or plugged storm drain
(schools, intersections, playgrounds, etc.)
PHOTOGRAPH DIVERSION & CONTAINMENT
Use cleaning equipment appropriate to
Clear blockage. (Powerrod, Hydrosaw,
HydroJet, etc.) Follow equipment usage
SOPs and safety requirements!
[Set up vactor downstream or a trap in manhole to
catch debris released during blockage removal.]
Storm Drain Cleaning
CLEAR
BLOCKAGE
 Vacuum visible signs of sewage spill
(record volume of initial spill vacuumed).
 Flush storm drain with water (3x the
amount of the recorded spill volume).
 Ensure signs of spill are removed.
 Return flush water to sanitary sewer.
YES
Did spill reach storm drains?
NO
 Vacuum/remove visible signs of sewage spill (solids, grease, TP, etc).
 Set up means to return water to sanitary sewers (berms, etc.)
 Spray disinfectant (wait 10 minutes) & broom area.
AREA CLEAN UP
 Flush area affected by spill with water (use at least 3x the amount of the recorded spill volume)
ensuring water is returned to sanitary sewer.
 PHOTOGRAPH AREA AFTER CLEAN-UP
 Estimate total gallons of spill and gallons recovered. Estimate spill start and end times and duration
of spill. FILL OUT SPILL FIELD FORM completely. Return all forms and pictures to office.
 PERFORM CCTV as soon as possible or within 24 hours of spill - submit burned DVD.
 Information reviewed between Crew, Leadworkers, Supervisors and Sr. Project Manager.
DOCUMENTATION
& REPORTING
474 of 891

--- page 475 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SAMPLE NOTIFICATION SIGNAGE
Exhibit B
DANGER
RAW SEWAGE
Keep Children and pets out of this area.
AVISO
AGUAS RESIDUALES CRUDAS
For more information – Para mas informacion
Contact: City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
(650) 522-7300
475 of 891

--- page 476 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
EASEMENT ACCESS PROCEDURE
Exhibit C
Sewer Maintenance SOP
EASEMENT ACCESS PROCEDURES
AFTER RECEIVING A SEWER COMPLAINT FROM CITY HALL OR DISPATCH…

Maintenance crew arrives at address and knocks on door.
IF RESIDENT IS HOME:


Inform resident that there is a need to inspect the sewer system located in the sewer easement on
their property.
Proceed to yard and perform required maintenance activities as neatly as possible. Try not to
disturb landscaping.



Replace manhole cover and remove all signs of activities, equipment, debris, etc.
Ensure gate(s) are shut on the way out.
Inform resident(s) of the condition encountered, work completed and if there is any necessary
follow-up. If so, provide an anticipated date and time when crews need to return.
If necessary, identify the location of the upstream and/or downstream manhole(s) in the
underground map book. Proceed to that residence and start process again.

If resident refuses entry:

Hand the resident the “Access Required” door hanger and allow them a moment to read and
understand the City ordinance that residents must provide unobstructed access to public mainlines
and manholes located on private property. If necessary, hand resident manager’s business card
and wait for resident to call.
If resident STILL refuses entry:

Return to yard and ask supervisor to mail an “Access Ordinance” letter to the resident. The letter
should provide a date and time upon which crews will return and require access.
Daytime: IF NO ONE IS HOME AND YARD IS ACCESSIBLE:

Fill out the “Access Required” door hanger explaining that there was a need for sewer crews to
access the public sewer mainline/manhole on the property. Leave on the door knob(s) of doors
expected to be used by returning residents.


Go to gate and call out (make noise) in case there is a dog in the yard.
Enter yard and proceed with maintenance activities as neatly as possible. Try not to disturb
landscaping.

After activities are completed, replace manhole cover and remove all signs of activities,
equipment, debris, etc.


Ensure gate(s) are shut on the way out.
If no one has returned, complete information on the door hanger providing the resident with
information on the condition encountered, work completed and if there is any necessary follow-
up and when crews are anticipated to return.
Daytime: NON-EMERGENCY- - IF NO ONE IS HOME AND YARD IS NOT ACCESSIBLE:

Fill out the “Access Required” door hanger explaining that there is need for sewer crews to access
the public sewer mainline/manhole on the property. Provide a date and time upon which crews
will return and expect access (gate unlocked, dogs kept inside, etc.) in order to service the
mainline of manhole.

Return at specified date and time.
If yard is still not accessible:

Return to yard and ask supervisor to mail an “Access Ordinance” letter to the resident. The letter
should provide a date and time upon which crews will return and require access.
If yard is YET AGAIN not accessible:
476 of 891

--- page 477 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SAMPLE DOOR HANGER

Call communications and/or a code enforcement officer and request an escort onto the property.
Daytime: EMERGENCY - - IF NO ONE IS HOME OR UNABLE TO GET A RESPONSE &
YARD IS NOT ACCESSIBLE:


Call communications and inform them that there is a sewer emergency and crews are going into
the yard of a residence. This is important in case resident calls police about an intruder.
Fill out the “Access Required” door hanger explaining that there was a need for sewer crews to
access the public sewer mainline/manhole on the property. Leave on the door knob(s) of doors
expected to be used by returning residents.


PROCEED TO ATTEND TO THE EMERGENCY. (Crews may need to jump the locked fence).
After activities are completed, replace manhole cover and remove all signs of activities,
equipment, debris, etc.


Ensure gate(s) are shut on the way out.
If the resident has not returned, complete information on the door hanger providing the resident
with information on the condition encountered, work completed and if there is any necessary
follow-up and when crews are anticipated to return.

Call communications again to inform them you are leaving the site.
Nighttime: EMERGENCY - - IF NO ONE IS HOME OR UNABLE TO GET A RESPONSE &
YARD IS NOT ACCESSIBLE:


Call communications and inform them that there is a sewer emergency and crews REQUEST
THE PRESENCE OF AN OFFICER (ASAP).
Fill out the “Access Required” door hanger explaining that there was a need for sewer crews to
access the public sewer mainline/manhole on the property. Leave on the door knob(s) of doors
expected to be used by returning residents.

AFTER ARRIVAL OF AN OFFICER, PROCEED TO ATTEND TO THE EMERGENCY.
Do not attempt to gain access prior to the arrival of an officer.
After activities are completed, replace manhole cover and remove all signs of activities,
equipment, debris, etc.



Ensure gate(s) are shut on the way out.
If the resident has not returned, complete information on the door hanger providing the resident
with information on the condition encountered, work completed and if there is any necessary
follow-up and when crews are anticipated to return.
Dispatch/Communications # = 650–522–7700
477 of 891

--- page 478 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.3
Investigation and Documentation Forms
478 of 891

--- page 479 ---
This page left intentionally blank
479 of 891

--- page 480 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SPILL INVESTIGATION FORM
Caller Summary
Condition Encountered (Describe…):
SPILL ADDRESS:
Cross Street:
Customer Cleanout was (circle): Full 
Empty 
Non-existent
CALLER NAME:
● ACTIONS TAKEN (circle): JET 
VAC
CCTV
CALLER CONTACT #:
DATE OF INITIAL CALL:
TIME OF INITIAL CALL:
HANDROD SNAKE
OTHER:
Order of Steps Taken:
am pm
am pm
1.
2.
3.
4.
EST. TIME SPILL STARTED:
Work Summary
Contained Spill (circle):
●Restored Flow?:
ALL
PORTION
NONE
REC’VD BY CREW (DATE/ TIME):
am pm
am pm
Y
Y
N
N
ARRIVAL TIME: :
●SITE CLEANED-UP?:
Called PW Sup. ______□ Spoke □ Left message
(Sup Initials) □ Called PW Mgr
(Initial)
●SITE DISINFECTED?:
Y
N
N
TIME SPILL ENDED:
TIME CLEAN-UP FINISHED:
EMPLOYEES:
am pm
am pm
●HEALTH WARNINGS POSTED AT SITE?: Y
●BEACHES POSTED?:
●BARRICADES PLACED?
●PHOTOS TAKEN?
Y
Y
Y
N
N
N
VEHICLES:
MATERIALS:
Spill Details
●PROBLEM (circle):
●SPILL DURATION (hrs/min):
●EST. SPILL RATE (gal/min):
●EST. SPILL VOLUME (gal):
●EST. VOL RECOVERED(gal):
●EST. VOL NOT RECOVERED(gal):
Blockage
Broken
(If blockage)
●BLOCKAGE FROM:
Animal Carcass
Construction Debris
Debris/Grit
Capacity Deficiency
I & I
Unknown
Detergent
●FEET CLEANED:
_ main
lateral
Grease/FOG
Roots
Further Details:
●RAIN: Y N 
If Yes
●PROPERTY TYPE?:
●PROPERTY DAMAGE?:
Size of Rain Event:
Public
Yes
Private
No
Solids
Other
●SPILL APPEARANCE POINT:
□ Inside Bldg/Struc (location)
●FINAL DESTINATION: Bubble-Up Storm Drain
Storm Drain System*
Inside Bldg/Structure
Unpaved Surface
□ Cleanout on lateral
Lat type: 
□ Proper c-o □ Imp c-o
□ No c-o
Lat loc:
□ Front
□ Back
MH#
□ Side
Street/Curb/Gutter
□ Manhole
Surface Water Impact
Other
□ Lampost Cleanout
LP#
□ Other
*If Storm Drain System – Was stormpipe plugged downstream
PROBLEM FOUND IN:
UPSMH#
□ Lateral
□ Mainline
and vacuumed?
Y
N
N/A
DWNMH#
●REACH STATE WATERS?:
Y
N
UNK
N/A
PIPE DIA.:
˝ MATERIAL:
AGE ____ ●EST VOL REACHED STATE WATER:
gal
●SAMPLES COLLECTED:
Y
N
480 of 891

--- page 481 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SPILL SERVICE CALL FORM
When a call is received by a representative of the City of San Mateo regarding a spill
complaint, or when a City representative witnesses a sewage discharge, the
following information should be recorded:
Date:
Time Call Received:
Received By:
Phone #:
Caller’s Name:
Caller Address:
Location of Spill: Estimated
Time spill began:
X-St.
NOTE: A City Representative could be any City employee, a police officer or dispatcher, fire fighter, or
administrative staff. The Sewer Division is to ensure that all representatives of the City understand the
urgency in contacting the Sewer Division directly after receiving a spill complaint and the importance of
collecting contact information and the estimated start of spill time.
481 of 891

--- page 482 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SPILL - REQUIRED NOTIFICATIONS
If more than 1,000 gallons reached surface waters or are likely to
reach waterways
Initial phone call:
PERSON CALLING:____________
Call CAL OES within 2 hours*: 800-852-7550
* notify CAL OES as soon as notification can be provided without substantially
impeding cleanup or other emergency measures, but no later than 2 hours after
becoming aware of spill
DATE & TIME: ________________
SPOKE TO: __________________
Write down CAL OES #:
Call CAL OES back if the information you initially provide them
(spill volume, waterway being impacted, etc) significantly changes
from the time of the initial phone call.
Updates to CAL OES, if needed:
PERSON CALLING:____________
DATE & TIME: ________________
SAMPLING AND PUBLIC POSTINGS – Only for spills where more than 10,000 gallons enter waterways
Receiving Waters were:
□ Noticeably Impacted
□ NOT Noticeably Impacted
Name of waterway where sewage entered water:
Waterway was a: □ Creek
Waterway was : □ Dry
□ Channel
□ Ponded
□ Other
□ Trickling
□ Flowing
□ Gushing
Locations where signs were posted: ____________________________________ (take pictures)
Samples taken by:
Samples taken:
Date & Time:
ft upstream
&
ft downstream of where sewage entered water
Conditions that may have influenced sample results:
RE-SAMPLING
Sample dates:
Date of “clear” sample and signs removed:
Additional notes:_________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS HISTORY/ SPILL FOLLOW-UP
Date of last Maintenance:
Frequency of Maintenance:
Dates/ WO#s of Previous Backup Calls:
Final Determinations of Cause: Spill Corrective
Action Taken:
□ Adjust Maintenance Schedule / Method of Cleaning – Describe:
□ Line TV’d
□ Repair Scheduled for
Date:
Date:
□
Date:
Replaced Line
□ Other (Describe)
482 of 891

--- page 483 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SPILL START TIME INVESTIGATION
Caller: ____________________
Where did you see sewage spill from? 
Manhole
Other_____________________________________________________________________
Date/time caller noticed spill: Date: ____/____/_Time: _____:______ 
AM 
PM
Inside Building
Clean Out
Wet well/Lift station
Comments from caller: _______________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Last time Caller observed NO spill occurring: __________:__________
AM
PM 
Date: _________/________/________
Comments:________________________________________________________________________________________________
_
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
First Responder: ____________________
Arrival Date/Time:
Date: ___/___/___ Time:_________:_______
AM
PM
** Attempts should be made to interview at least two (2) others in addition to the Caller.
If nobody is available, document attempts (by address or passer-by) **
On Site Interview 1: Name/Address: ____________________________________________________________________________
Observation Description: _____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________ Time Observed Spill: ______:______
AM
PM
N/A
On Site Interview 2: Name/Address:
_____________________________________________________________________________
Observation Description:
______________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________ Time Observed Spill: ______:______
AM
PM
N/A
Other comments regarding spill start time (more attempted interviews, or reason for no interviews, etc.): _______________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
483 of 891

--- page 484 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SPILL VOLUME CALCULATION
The purpose of this worksheet is to capture the data and method(s) used in estimating the volume of a spill.
Since there are many variables and often unknown values involved, this calculation is just an estimate.
Additionally, it is useful to use more than one method, if possible, to validate your estimate.
Check all methods and tools that you used:
Remember to take photos!






Visual estimate
Measured surface area and volume
Duration and flow rate
Estimated daily use per capita upstream
Meter @ Pump Station
Other (use notes to explain)
Visual Estimate Method- Imagine a bucket(s) or barrel(s) of water tipped over.
Size of bucket(s) or
barrel(s)
1 gal. water jug
How many of this
Size?
Multiplier
X 1
Total Volume
Estimated
5 gal. bucket
X 5
32 gal. trash can
X 32
55 gal drum
X 55
Total Volume Estimated
Using Visual Method
Measured Volume Method (this may take several calculations as may have to break down the odd shaped spill to
rectangles, circles, and polygons)
If the entire spill is settled in one area, calculate the volume of spill in feet (L' X W' X D') and convert to gallons (X7.48 for
gallons in a square area, and X.785 for gallons in a circular area). It is important when guessing depth to measure, if
possible in several locations and use an average depth.
1. 
Draw a sketch of the spill in the space provided on next page
2. 
Draw shapes and dimensions used for calculations
3. 
Use correct formula for various shapes (see table below)
Spill Shape
Rectangle
Volume Calculation Formula
L x W x Dx7.48
Volume Result
Circle
3.14 x R² x Dx0.785
Show formula used
Polygons
484 of 891

--- page 485 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
USE THIS SPACE TO DRAW A SKETCH OF THE SPILL SHAPE AND DIMENSIONS
Duration and Flow Rate Method
Start date and time:
End date and time:
Total spill duration:
Subtract line 1 from line 2. Show time in minutes
Average flow rate in GPM:
Use photo chart to estimate flow rate
(account for diurnal patterns if long duration)
Total volume estimate:
minutes x gpm
Upstream Connections Method
If you are dealing with a spill that has been running into a storm drain, you must estimate the gallons by: the amount of the
spill times the number of upstream connections on the receiving line (200 gal. per household per 24 hr) and estimate the time
that the flow has been occurring. Each residence contributes about 240 gallons per day or about 10 gallons per hour.
Multiply the number of residences by 10 and by the number of hours. This gives you the number of gallons.
EXAMPLE A: If you have a line with 6 houses on it and it has been spilling for 24 hours :
6 houses x 200 gallons per house per 24 hours = 1,200 gal.
EXAMPLE B: If you have 60 houses on a line that has been overflowing for 4 hours :
60 houses x 10 gallons per house per hour x 4 hours= 2,400 gal.
Pump Station Method
If the flow is coming from a pump station, use the previous day's (same weather) flow and pump capacity to estimate the flow.
Additional Notes (attach extra pages if needed):
485 of 891

--- page 486 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
INVESTIGATION AND DOCUMENTATION FORMS
SAMPLING
Remember to take photos!
Required for spills where more than 10,000 gallons reach surface waters
Name of waterway/channel where sewage entered water:
Waterway was: 
Dry 
Ponded 
□ Trickling
□
□
□ Flowing
□ Gushing
Waterway was: 
□ Noticeably Impacted □ NOT Noticeably Impacted
Samples taken by:
Date & Time:
ft downstream of where sewage entered
Samples taken:
water
ft upstream &
Conditions that may have influenced sample results:
Additional sample location(s), if requested by Sr Project Manager or San Mateo County Health:
RE-SAMPLING
Sample Dates/Times:
Additional Sampling Notes:
USE THIS SPACE TO DRAW A SKETCH OF SAMPLING LOCATIONS IN RELATION TO THE SPILL LOCATION
486 of 891

--- page 487 ---
This page left intentionally blank
487 of 891

--- page 488 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.4
Spill Calculation and Estimation
488 of 891

--- page 489 ---
This page left intentionally blank
489 of 891

--- page 490 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
CALCULATION AND ESTIMATION METHODS
Sewer Maintenance Spill
Calculation and Estimation Methods
Outlined in this document are three methods that are most often employed for estimating the
volume of sanitary sewer spill. The City staff preparing the estimate should utilize the most
appropriate method for the sewer spill in question and use the best information available.
Method 1: Eyeball method
The volume of small spills can be estimated using an “eyeball estimate”. To use this method
imagine the amount of water that would spill from a container listed on the table below. A jug
contains 1 gallon, a bucket contains 5 gallons, and a drum contains 55 gallons. If the spill is
larger than 55 gallons, try to break the standing water into 55 gal drums and then multiply by 55
gallons. This method is useful for contained spills up to approximately 220 gallons.
Size of
container
Water jug
Bucket
How many
of this size?
Size Multiplier
Total Volume
Estimated (gal)
(gal)
X 1
X 5
55 gal drum
X 55
Total volume
estimated
Method 2: Measured Volume
The volume of most small spills that have been contained can be estimated using this method.
The shape, dimensions, and the depth of the contained wastewater are needed. The shape and
dimensions are used to calculate the area of the spills and the depth is used to calculate the
volume.
Common Shapes and Dimensions
Steps for Volume Calculation
Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
Sketch the shape of the contained sewage (see figure above).
Measure or pace off the dimensions.
Measure the depth at several locations and select an average.
Convert the dimensions, including depth, to feet.
Calculate the area in square feet using the following formulas:
490 of 891

--- page 491 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
CALCULATION AND ESTIMATION METHODS
Rectangle: Area = length (feet) x width (feet)
Circle:
Triangle:
Area = diameter (feet) x diameter (feet) x 0.785
Area = base (feet) x height (feet) x 0.5
Step 6
Step 7
Multiply the area (square feet) times the depth (in feet) to obtain the
volume in cubic feet.
Multiply the volume in cubic feet by 7.5 to convert it to gallons
Method 3: Duration and Flowrate
Calculating the volume of larger spills, where it is difficult or impossible to measure the area and
depth, requires a different approach. In this method, separate estimates are made of the
duration of the spill and the flowrate. The methods of estimating duration and flowrate are:
Duration
The duration is the elapsed time from the time the spill started to the time that the flow was
restored.
Start Time: The start time is sometimes difficult to establish. Here are some approaches:
1. Local residents can be used to establish start time. Inquire as to their observations.
Spills that occur in rights-of-way are usually observed and reported promptly. Spills that
occur out of the public view can go on longer. Sometimes observations like odors or sounds
(e.g. water running in a normally dry creek bed) can be used to estimate the start time.
2. Changes in flow on a downstream flowmeter can be used to establish the start time.
Typically the daily flow peaks are “cut off” or flattened by the loss of flow. This can be
identified by comparing hourly flow data during the spill event with flow data from prior days.
This method will likely only be effective with consistent weather.
3. Conditions at the spill site change over time and can be used to establish the start time.
Initially there will be limited deposits of toilet paper and other sewage solids. After a few
days to a week, the sewage solids form a light-colored residue. After a few weeks to a
month, the sewage solids turn dark. The quantity of toilet paper and other materials of
sewage origin increase over time. These observations can be used to estimate the start time
in the absence of other information. Taking photographs to document the observations can
be helpful if questions arise later in the process. This method is valid for spills that have
been occurring for a long time and may be used in conjunction with either of the above
methods.
4. It is important to remember that spills may not be continuous. Blockages are not usually
complete (some flow continues). In this case the spill would occur during the peak flow
periods (typically 10:00 to 12:00 and 13:00 to 16:00 each day). Spills that occur due to peak
flows in excess of capacity will occur only during, and for a short period after, heavy rainfall.
End Time: The end time is usually much easier to establish. Field crews on-site observe the
“blow down” that occurs when the blockage has been removed. The “blow down” can also be
observed in downstream flowmeters.
Flow Rate
The flowrate is the average flow that left the sewer system during the time of the spill.
There are three common ways to estimate the flowrate:
491 of 891

--- page 492 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
CALCULATION AND ESTIMATION METHODS
1. The San Diego Manhole Flowrate Chart: This chart, included as at the end of this
appendix, shows sewage flowing from manhole covers at a variety of flowrates. The
observations of the field crew can be used to select the appropriate flowrate from the
chart. If possible, photographs are useful in documenting basis for the flowrate estimate.
2. Flowmeter: Changes in flows in downstream flowmeters can be used to estimate the
flowrate during the spill.
3. Counting Connections: Once the location of the spill is known, the number of upstream
connections can be determined from the sewer maps. Multiply the number of
connections by 200 to 250 gallons per day per connection or 8 to 10 gallons per hour per
connection.
For example: 22 upstream connections * 9 gallons per hour per connection
= 198 gallons per hour / 60 minutes per hour
= 3.3 gallons per minute
Spill Volume
Once duration and flowrate have been estimated, the volume of the spill is the product of
duration (hours or days) and the flowrate (gallons per hour or gallons per day).
For example: Spill start time = 11:00
Spill end time = 14:00
Spill duration = 3 hours
3.3 gallons per minute x 3 hours x 60 minutes per hour
= 594 gallons
492 of 891

--- page 493 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
CALCULATION AND ESTIMATION METHODS
493 of 891

--- page 494 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.5
Signage and Posting Procedures
494 of 891

--- page 495 ---
This page left intentionally blank
495 of 891

--- page 496 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL SIGNAGE AND POSTING
PROCEDURES
POSTING OF CONTAMINATED WATERS IN CONNECTION WITH SPILL
This requirement applies to sanitary sewer overflows where 10,000 gallons or more reached
a waterway or are expected to reach public creeks, drainage channels, and/or waters that run
adjacent to or through City Parks and are accessible to the public, and/or the Marina Lagoon.
1. 
Follow spill emergency response procedures for spill assessment, and containment.
2. 
If sewage entered surface waters and was not fully recovered, refer to Sewage
Watershed Map (page 22) and determine area of impact. Note name of watershed,
names of waterways and beaches (if applicable) on spill field form.
3. 
Spill Response Crew shall assign a crew to post contaminated water advisory signs at all
pre-determined locations downstream of spill location in the identified watershed(s).
Crew shall follow the Preferred Specific Locations identified on pages 23 through 25.
Signs shall be posted in conspicuous locations to avert potential human water contact.
Park locations where waters are completely fenced and inaccessible to the public will not
receive signage.
4. 
If impacted watershed drains in to the Marina Lagoon, the large beach closure signs shall
be utilized at Aquatic Park (1097 Seal Court) and Lakeshore Park (1500 Marina Court).
5. 
Leadworker, PW Supervisor or Sr. Project Manager shall inform Director of Parks and
Recreation (522-7404) and Parks Manager (522-7423) of spill address/location, date,
time and volume of spill, and the name of the impacted Sewage Spill Watershed.
6. 
Warning signs should remain posted until the risk of contamination has subsided to
acceptable background levels. For beaches, this will be determined by the San Mateo
County Department of Environmental Health. For all other waterways, re-sampling must
be performed by crews.
For Questions or further assistance,
Contact County Recreation Water Quality Program
Phone 363-4798
496 of 891

--- page 497 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL SIGNAGE AND POSTING PROCEDURES
DANGER
RAW SEWAGE
WATER CONTACT MAY
CAUSE ILLNESS
AVISO
AGUAS RESIDUALES CRUDAS
EL CONTACTO CON AGUA
PUEDE CAUSAR ENFERMEDADES
For more information – Para mas informacion
Contact: City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
(650) 522-7300
497 of 891

--- page 498 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL SIGNAGE AND POSTING PROCEDURES
498 of 891

--- page 499 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
SPILL SIGNAGE AND POSTING PROCEDURES
PARK SIGNAGE POSTING LOCATIONS
Follow these noticing procedures for SSOs where more than 10,000 gallons reached (or
are likely to reach) waterways that run adjacent to or through City Parks and are
accessible to the public.
1. Identify the location of the spill on the Sewage Spill Watersheds, Spill Notifications
Boundaries Map. Note the Name of the watershed. ALSO - Note whether the Watershed is
part of a drainage system that reaches the Marina Lagoon (these watersheds are encircled
in red on the map).
2. Find the name of the Watershed below and proceed to post “Danger, Raw Sewage” signage
at the locations specified.
3. Remember to also post Beach Closure signs at Lakeshore Park, Aquatic Park,
Bayside/Joinville and Tidelands Park.
Edgewood Creek Spill Watershed
There is no public access to any waterways in this watershed. PW Supervisor to contact and coordinate
actions with the City of Burlingame.
Poplar/Bayfront Spill Watershed
Ryder Park
Post one sign downstream of water feature, adjacent to the wood deck.
San Mateo Creek Spill Watershed
Gateway Park
rd
th
Post signs at the waters edge at the 3 Avenue and 4 Avenue entrances to the Park. Attach a third sign
to an A-Frame and place it at the top of the stairs in the middle of the park which lead down to the creek.
Proceed to posting Arroyo Park (page 19).
499 of 891

--- page 500 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
SIGNAGE AND POSTING PROCEDURES
San Mateo Creek Spill Watershed continued…
Arroyo Park/DeAnza Historical Park (Arroyo Court)
Post signs in three locations on the pathways leading from Arroyo drive to the Creek.
NOTE: If spill occurred in upper San Mateo Creek around Polhemus, contact the Town of Hillsborough
and the County Sanitary Sewer District.
Shoreview Spill Watershed
There is no public access to any waterways in this watershed. No posting is required.
16TH Ave. Channel Spill Watershed
There is no public access to any waterways in this watershed. Proceed to post at the Marina Lagoon
locations from Aquatic Park north to the Marina Lagoon Pump Station (page 25).
19TH Ave. Channel Spill Watershed
There is no public access to any waterways in this watershed. Proceed to post at the Marina Lagoon
locations (page 25).
Los Prados Spill Watershed
There is no public access to any waterways in this watershed. Proceed to post at the Marina Lagoon
locations (page 25).
Laurel Creek Spill Watershed
Laurelwood Park (3471 Glendora Dr.)
Proceed into park, pass the playground and take the path to the left. There are creeks on either side
(creek on the right drains from Belmont). Post one sign near the culvert on the left side. Continue down
the path and post another sign on the left side at the path leading down to the creek. Further down there
is a fork in the path; stay to the left and post again at the creek access. Then, proceed to Post at Marina
Lagoon locations (page 20).
500 of 891

--- page 501 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN SPILL
SIGNAGE AND POSTING PROCEDURES
MARINA LAGOON PARK AND BEACH POSTINGS
Follow these noticing procedures for SSOs where more than 10,000 gallons reached (or
are likely to reach) the Marina Lagoon.
The following locations are preferred specific locations for postings at locations along the Marina
Lagoon where waters of the Lagoon are accessible.
Mariners Island Park (1550 Shoal Dr. – part of Mariners Island Spill Watershed)
Post one sign along the waters edge in the ice plant
Bayside / Joinville Park (2111 Kehoe Ave)
Cross over the bridge from Joinville Park heading towards the Marina Lagoon Pump Station. Follow
walking path along the lagoon. Post signs in the ice plant near the waters edge, conspicuously, in at least
two locations along the walking path.
North End Marina Lagoon Boat Launch (Anchor Road. Near the Marina Lagoon Pumpstation)
Post a sign at the boat launch.
501 of 891

--- page 502 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.6
Water Quality Monitoring Program
502 of 891

--- page 503 ---
This page left intentionally blank
503 of 891

--- page 504 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
INTRODUCTION
This Water Quality Monitoring Program supplements the description of City response activities
and standard operating procedures to be utilized in the SERP, in the event a sanitary sewer
spill exceeds 50,000 gallons and enters surface waters. This program is reviewed periodically
and may be updated as necessary.
SAFETY
Be aware of safety issues and do not subject personnel to unsafe conditions in order to
comply with this Water Quality Monitoring Plan. Sampling will not be conducted if there are any
concerns regarding field crew safety. These concerns may include heavy rain events, which
compromise access points through flooding and swift currents. Thunderstorms will also be
avoided when lightning is occurring. Employ the buddy system as required to maximize
employee safety when sample collection is required.
ESTIMATION OF SPILL TRAVEL TIME
The following methods are recommended to estimate spill travel time and direction:
• Method 1: Use a velocity probe (such as a Global Water FP111-S Flow Probe). To
determine the rate of flow in the surface water or
• Method 2: Visual ft/sec measurement. This may be done by observing or dropping floatable
debris in the surface water and timing how long it takes to travel over a measured distance
(e.g., 100 feet). Include sections in the surface water where there are bends, bottlenecks, or
other characteristics that may slow down the flow. If the first measurement is uncertain, this
estimate may be performed three to five times, and the values averaged to determine an
estimated travel time.
Either method will provide a means to estimate the distance traveled and identify where the
spill may be headed within the waterway.
504 of 891

--- page 505 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
WATER QUALITY SAMPLING PROCEDURES
•
In the event a spill reaches a surface water or (flowing) drainage channel tributary and
the volume is estimated as greater than 50,000 gallons, samples are required within 48
hours of first knowing of the release. The purpose of water quality sampling is to
determine the nature and extent of the impact of the spill. Note: Water quality sampling
should not be given precedence over stopping the spill or protection of public health.
•
When sampling a spill, collect a minimum of three samples as conditions allow. One
sample shall be located 100 feet upstream of the point where sewage entered the
waterway. The second sample shall be taken at the discharge location. A third sample
shall be taken 100 feet downstream of the point where sewage entered the waterway.
When possible, collect samples from the middle of the waterway where the water is
actively flowing.
•
•
Sample for Total Coliform, E. coli, enterococcus, and Ammonia as a minimum. Conduct
additional sampling for pH if practical.
Additional follow-up samples may be required by the County Health Department to
confirm the surface water quality has returned to baseline conditions. The timing and
location of samples shall be determined through discussions with the County Health
Department. Follow-up samples may be used to determine if posting of warning signs
should be discontinued (if signs were posted).
•
Collaboration with the County Health Department should continue until closure is
obtained.
WATER QUALITY SAMPLING EQUIPMENT
The following list describes equipment that should be stocked and readily available for each
water quality sampling event.
•
•
•
•
Personnel protective equipment including latex/nitrile gloves and eye protection
3 – 120 mL sterile plastic containers for Bacteria sample collection.
3 – 250 mL plastic containers preserved with H SO for Ammonia analysis.
2
4
3 – 250 mL plastic containers (for collecting the sample and transferring to the preserved
container for ammonia. Also can be used for checking pH, if desired)
•
•
•
1 – Sample Collection Tool (extension pole with attachment to hold sample bottle)
Cooler with ice packs
Chain of Custody forms for WWTP Lab, Caltest Labs, and County Health Lab,
Ensure that there are adequate quantities of sample containers-kits if there are more
than three sample locations.
505 of 891

--- page 506 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
SAMPLE COLLECTION PROCEDURE
Note: Collect the UPSTREAM sample first.
I.
Bacteria Sample Collection – Dip sample bottle into water, preferably mid-stream
1. Using the 120-mL sterile plastic sample bottles, one sample must be filled at a point
approximately 100 feet upstream of where the spill entered the receiving water, a
second bottle filled at a point 100 feet downstream of where the spill entered the
receiving water, and the third sample collected at the point where the spill entered
the receiving water. Total coliform, E. coli and enterococcus can be analyzed at the
lab from each sample container.
2. Immediately before sampling, don latex/nitrile gloves. Using a pen (that doesn’t
smear in water) record on the bottle label (1) the sample ID*, (2) date, (3) time of
sample collection, and (4) the sampler’s initials.
*Sample ID = Manhole#–UP (upstream) or Manhole#-DWN(downstream)
Example for upstream Sample ID:
431:06-UP
Example for downstream Sample ID: 431:06-DWN
Example of discharge point Sample ID: 431:06-PT
3. Carefully open the sample bottle without touching the inside of the lid or bottle.
4. Face upstream (or upgradient) using the extension pole or by hand, submerge the
sample container and fill it under water, if possible, without collecting surface or
bottom debris. Pour off excess sample volume so that the container is filled to the
100-mL fill line. Secure the lid and dry the outside of bottle with a paper towel.
5. Immediately place the filled & labeled sample container inside the cooler with ice or
cold packs.
6. Repeat Steps 1 through 5 for each bacteria sample location. Proceed to Section III
(after collecting ammonia samples if necessary).
II.
Ammonia Sample Collection – Do NOT Dip Sample Bottle into Water
Use Secondary Container
1. One 250-mLplastic ammonia sample bottle (containing sulfuric acid as preservative)
must be filled at a point 100 feet upstream of where the spill entered the receiving
water, one sample collected at a point 100 feet downstream of where the spill
entered the receiving water, and a sample where the spill entered the receiving
water. USE THE UNPRESERVED SAMPLE CONTAINER (does not contain
sulfuric acid) TO COLLECT THE SAMPLE AND TRANSFER THE CONTENTS TO
THE PRESERVED SAMPLE CONTAINER. Sampling personnel must wear
gloves and safety glasses while collecting samples for ammonia because of
potential contact with sulfuric acid, which is highly corrosive.
2. Use a pen that does not smear when wet to record on the bottle label (1) the
sample ID*, (2) date and (3) time of sample collection, and (4) the sampler’s initials.
506 of 891

--- page 507 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
*Sample ID = 
Manhole#–UP (upstream) or Manhole#-DWN(downstream)
Example for upstream Sample ID: 
431:06-UP
Example for downstream Sample ID: 431:06-DWN
Example of discharge point Sample ID: 431:06-PT
3. Remove the lid from the clean / empty / unused 250-mL plastic secondary container
(does not contain sulfuric acid).
4. Face upstream (or upgradient) using the extension pole or by hand, submerge the
secondary container and fill it under water, if possible, without collecting surface or
bottom debris.
5. Carefully open the ammonia sample bottle containing sulfuric acid.
6. Slowly transfer sample from the secondary container into the 250-mL ammonia
sample bottle preserved with sulfuric acid. Secure the lid so that acidified sample
does not leak out of the bottle and dry the outside of bottle with a paper towel.
7. Immediately place the filled & labeled sample container inside the cooler with ice or
cold packs.
8. Repeat Steps 1 through 7 for each ammonia sample location.
III.
Chain-of-Custody & Sample Delivery
1. Depending on which lab the bacteria samples will be delivered to, complete the
appropriate Chain-of-Custody (COC) form for the bacteria samples (either the
WWTP Lab or County Health Lab); include the Sample IDs, Date & Time of Sample
Collection and Sampler’s Name & Signature. Note the approximate upstream and
downstream distance in the “Notes” field on the COC if the samples were collected
from a distance other than 100 feet.
The COC is a legal document and must be complete.
2. Specify on the COC the analyses requested for each sample. Each sample should
be analyzed for: Total coliform, E. coli, and Enterococcus. Each COC is pre-filled
for three samples; add additional lines if more samples were collected.
3. Complete the Caltest Lab COC form for all samples that will be analyzed for
ammonia. Include the Sample IDs, Date & Time of Sample Collection and
Sampler’s Name & Signature. Note the approximate upstream and downstream
distance in the “Notes” field on the COC if the samples were collected from a
distance other than 100 feet.
The COC is a legal document and must be complete.
4. Deliver bacteria samples to the WWTP Laboratory during normal business hours
(Mon – Sun 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.). If after business hours, deliver to the County
Health Lab.
5. Ammonia samples will be picked up by Caltest from the WWTP Lab. A sample
refrigerator labelled “Caltest Pickup” is in the sample receiving room of the WWTP
Lab. Place the labelled ammonia samples in the refrigerator. MAKE SURE THE
507 of 891

--- page 508 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM
SAMPLE LABELS AND COC ARE COMPLETE. Place the CalTest COC in the clip
on the refrigerator door. Call Caltest for a pickup (707-258-4000). The courier will
sign the COC when they pick up the samples and leave a copy of the signed COC
in the clip.
6. If unable to deliver the bacteria samples to the WWTP Lab, they can be delivered to
the San Mateo County Public Health Laboratory at:
225 W. 37th Ave, Room 113. Hours of operation are Mon – Fri 8am to 5pm.* Have
the Lab Analyst sign the COC form & make a copy.
7. Place the signed COC forms (or photocopies) in the spill file.
SAMPLING COLLECTION BEST PRACTICE
•
Collect all grab samples approximately 3’ - 6” below the surface (or if shallower, as close
as possible to this depth) to avoid sampling debris or scum from the surface.
•
Collect the sample in a safe manner in the middle of the flow, against the direction of
water flow.
•
•
•
Photo-document the spill locations.
Leave approximately one inch of head space in individual sample bottles. Do not overfill.
Once the lid is opened for the individual sample bottle, do not touch the inside surface of
the bottle or lid.
•
•
For the sample bottles that contain a preservative, take care to keep the preservation
material in the container.
Immediately place all sample bottles on ice.
SAMPLING TIME CONSTRAINTS
Bacteria samples have a 6-hour (chilled) regulatory holding time. Samples will not be
analyzed if the holding time has been exceeded. The WWTP Lab and County Lab need
about 30 minutes to set up the tests.
Ammonia samples have a 28-day regulatory holding time. Samples must be maintained at
< 6oC (on ice or refrigerated) from the time of collection until receipt by the analytical laboratory.
*If the WWTP Lab and County Public Health lab is Closed…
If the WWTP Lab or County Health Lab will be opening within 5 hours from the time the samples
were collected, keep samples in a refrigerator or in the cooler containing the cold packs/ice and
immediately deliver samples as soon as either Lab is open for business.
Otherwise, call the County Health Lab’s After Hours Contact List (starting with #1 –
Office/Pager/Cell) and arrange to meet a lab analyst. They have agreed to meet us at the lab to
receive samples during off-hours.
Spill Sampling Laboratory Contact Information is on the following page.
508 of 891

--- page 509 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO - SEWER MAINTENANCE
County of San Mateo
Department of Health
Public Health Laboratory
DATE AND TIME RECEIVED INITIALS
225 West 37th Avenue, Room #113
San Mateo, CA 94403
(650) 573-2500
Bruce K. Fujikawa, Dr. P.H., Laboratory Director
ENVIRONMENTAL TEST REQUEST FORM
COLLECTED BY:
SAMPLE ID :
DATE COLLECTED:
TIME COLLECTED:
TEST REQUEST ORDER CHOICE:
509 of 891

--- page 510 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO - SEWER MAINTENANCE
MULTIPLE TUBE FERMENTATION TEST
COLILERT-18 TEST (DILUTE 1:10)
ENTEROLERT TEST (DILUTE 1:10)
OTHER
510 of 891

--- page 511 ---
SAMPLE TYPE:
RECREATIONAL WATER
BEACH ON MARINA LAGOON
(Name of Beach:
)
SOIL
MARINA LAGOON
BAYSIDE
CREEK
(Name of Creek:
)
)
CHANNEL
(Name of Channel:
)
MOUTH OF CHANNEL AT LAGOON 
(Name of Channel:
OTHER
SYSTEM NAME: 
San Mateo CS
SYSTEM ID # :
2SSO10183
SAMPLE SITE/ADDRESS: 
1949 Pacific Blvd
San Mateo, CA 94403
SEND REPORT TO (FULL ADDRESS):
ORGANIZATION)
BILL TO (NAME OF
LOCATION: City of San Mateo CS
1949 Pacific Blvd
City of San Mateo CS
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
San Mateo, CA 94403
ATTENTION: Tony Baltadano
fax: 650-522-7351
511 of 891

--- page 512 ---
1885 N. KELLY ROAD NAPA, CA 94558 (707)258-4000 FAX (707) 226-1001 www.caltestlab.com PAGE 1 OF 1
Caltest SAMPLE CHAIN OF CUSTODY
PR AME / PROJECT NUMBER: P.O. HUMBER AB ORDER #
LABORATORY
UENT: Tony Baltodano (thaltodano@cityefsanmateo.org)
City of San Mateo Public Works Tony Baltodano (thaltodano@cityefsanmateo.org) Baltodano (tbaltodano@cityofsanmateo.org) mane mse meousren
MAILING ADDRESS: STATE:
1949 Pacific Blvd. San Mateo, CA 94403 Se 94403
ECR : TURH-AROUND TIME
Please email invoice to smi: ae cadmas org TonyBaltodano i Baltodano [X ]stanoano -
PHONE HUMBER: ARPLER PRINT & SIGH NA a
650-522-7359 [leusu -
DUE DATE: 5
E
CALTEST | DATE SAMPLED | TIME SAMPLED | purrux: “ree PRESERVATIVE SAMPLE IDENTIFICATION / SITE Wee | “ae REMARKS Z
&
|_| SEE al aren ee
— Ss ee
| | AQ _[PT/250mi | H2S504__| Dee RELI XT
i 222. ee
a a a ee ee ee
ee
Ee a a eee eee eee eee ee
I rr ee ee eee eee ee) ee
aaa ee ee eee eee ee ee ee
C—O ee ee eee ee ee eee ee
a a re ee ee ee eee eee ee re
a rr a ee ee eee 0 ee 2 2 eee
Er a a ee ee eee ee ee ee eee
— a a a es es eee ee ee i ee
a rr ee re ee ee ee eee Ps
EE ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee ee

RE LINQUISHED BY DATE/TIME | receneoey BY RELINQUISHED BY ee RECEIVED BY

‘MATRIX: AQ = Aqueous Nondrinking W ater,
Digested Metals; FE= Low R.Ls, Aqueous
Nondrinking Water, Digested Metals; DW = Drinking
COMMENTS: Water, SL= Soil Sludge, Solid ; FP = Free Product

“CONTAINER TYPES: AL = Amber Liter, AHL = 500
ml Amber; PT = Pint (Plastic); QT = Quart (Plastic);
HG = Half Gallon (Plastic); SJ = Soil Jar; B4 = 4oz.
BACT; BT = Brass Tube; YOA = 40mL OA; OTC -
Other Type Container

FOR LAB USE ONLY

512 of 891


--- page 513 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO WWTP LABORATORY CHAIN-OF-CUSTODY RECORD
San Meteo, CA. 94404
Phone: [650] 522-7388 Fax: [650] 522-7381 Lab ID:

CITY OF SAN MATEO

WWTP LABORATORY
DESTINATION LAB cong ge =f :
CONTACT INFORMATION [°@" Malco, Ee i
[650] 522-7388 (Xiongbing Liang) aay Ni : -
SAMPLER NAME: Br EI) New| |
SAMPLER SIGNATURE ae
= F 7 =
CITY S.M.conTacT; 2ongbing Liang enero
xlianq@cityofsanmateo.org !
PROJECT /P.O.#
Sample ID Date Time Sample | Container =
P Sampled Sampled Matrix | # |

|__type | Pres. [oO =

eee ee eee eee | eee ee es ee ee Eee
Pe tues oom HDPE] mone | XTX] | | ft |
Pf tuecous tt ftom HDPE mone |X| Xf | ft |
pO tues oom HDPE] mone |X| XT | | | |
(S| (As (ees es | es
ee) es ee ee |e ee |e ee ee ee ee ee es eee
es Rs GD QO QS OOS QO QO QO GG GQ
es Re DD QO QD OS QO QO GGG OG
es Re DD OU QO QD ORS QO QO GO GOO OG
ee, eee ee | ee es 0 es 0 eee
SENDER COMMENTS:

ignature: ignature:

rint Name: int Name:

ompany: City of San Mateo - PW Environmental Svcs ompany: City of San Mateo, Wastewater Treatment Plant Laborato
Xiongbing Liang xlianq@cityofsanmateo.or ate: Time: ate:
Tony Baltodano tbaltodano@cityofsanmateo.org RELINQUISHED BY (2

ignature:

rint Name:

ompany:

ate: Time:
LABORATORY COMMENTS: RELINQUISHED BY (3
ignature:
rint Name: rint Name:
ompany: ompany:
ate: ate:

lilert-18 Total Coliform, E. Coli)

10 dilution
Enterolert (Enterococci) 1:10 dilution

=

oO

RECEIVED BY (2
ignature:
rint Name:
ompany:

ate:

Uv

RECEIVED BY (3

gnature:

vU

|

Oo

513 of 891


--- page 514 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 6 – OERP
APPENDIX 6.7
Spill Technical Report
514 of 891

--- page 515 ---
This page left intentionally blank
515 of 891

--- page 516 ---
ON LETTERHEAD
Date
State Water Resources Control Board
1001 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814
Subject:
Technical Report for Sanitary Sewer Spill of 50,000 Gallons or More
Event ID: XXXXXX
This submittal comprises the Sanitary Sewer Spill Technical Report (“Report”) that is required
by State Water Resources Control Board (“SWRCB”) Order No.WQ 2022-0103-DWQ
(“Order”). The Order requires each enrollee to submit a Spill Technical Report in the California
Integrated Water Quality System (“CIWQS”) online Sanitary Sewer System Database within 45
calendar days of the spill end date for any spill in which 50,000 gallons or greater is discharged
to surface waters.
This Report comprises the following sections:
1. Causes and Circumstances of the Spill
2. District’s Response to Spill
3. Water Quality Monitoring
4. Spill Impact Evaluation
1.0
CAUSES AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE SPILL
A.
Complete and detailed explanation of how and when the spill was discovered:
B.
C.
D.
Photographs illustrating the spill origin, the extent and reach of the spill, drainage
conveyance system entrance and exit, receiving water, and post-cleanup site conditions:
Diagram showing the spill failure point, appearance point(s), the spill flow path, and
ultimate destinations:
Detailed description of the methodology employed and available data used to calculate
the discharge volume and, if applicable, the recovered spill volume:
516 of 891

--- page 517 ---
State Water Resources Control Board
Date
Page 2
E.
F.
Detailed description of the spill cause(s):
Description of the pipe material and estimated age of the pipe material at the failure
location:
G.
H.
Description of the impact of the spill:
Copy of original field crew records used to document the spill are included at the end of
this report.
I.
The Order requests historical maintenance records for the failure location. The associated
pipe segment cleaning and CCTV history is provided in Table 1.
Table 1. Maintenance Results for Pipe Segment XXXXX-XXXX
Date
Action: Clean or CCTV 
Summary of Findings
2.0
RESPONSE TO SPILL
A. Chronological narrative description of all actions taken by the District to terminate the spill:
517 of 891

--- page 518 ---
State Water Resources Control Board
Date
Page 3
B. Explanation of how the Sewer System Management Plan SERP was implemented to respond
to and mitigate the spill:
C. Final corrective action(s) completed and a schedule for planned corrective actions, including:
a. Local regulatory enforcement action taken against an illicit discharge in response to
this spill, as applicable:
b. Identifiable system modifications, and operation and maintenance program
modifications needed to prevent repeated spill occurrences:
c. Necessary modifications to the SERP to incorporate lessons learned in responding to
and mitigating the spill.
3.0
WATER QUALITY MONITORING
A. Description of all water quality sampling activities conducted:
B. List of pollutant and parameters monitored, sampled, and analyzed:
C. Laboratory results, including laboratory reports:
D. Detailed location map illustrating all water quality sampling points:
518 of 891

--- page 519 ---
State Water Resources Control Board
Date
Page 4
E. Other regulatory agencies receiving sample results (if applicable):
4.0 SPILL IMPACT EVALUATION
A. Evaluation of spill impact(s), including a description of short-term and long-term impact(s)
to beneficial uses of the surface water.
519 of 891

--- page 520 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 7 – FATS, OILS, AND GREASE
(FOG) CONTROL PLAN
Appendix 7.1.A – Outreach Materials
Appendix 7.1.B – Waste Discharge Permit
(WDP)
Appendix 7.1.C – WDP Standard Terms,
Conditions, and
Requirements
Appendix 7.1.D – BMPs for FSEs
Appendix 7.1.E – Pretreatment System
Maintenance Log
Appendix 7.1.F – WDP Q&As
Appendix 7.1.G – Inspection Form – FSE
Appendix 7.1.H – FOG Hot Spots
(Schedule & Map)
Appendix 7.1.I – List of FSEs and Grease
Removal Device Cleaning
Frequency
520 of 891

--- page 521 ---
This page left intentionally blank
521 of 891

--- page 522 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 7 – FATS, OILS, AND GREASE
(FOG) CONTROL PROGRAM
APPENDIX 7.1
FOG Supporting Materials
522 of 891

--- page 523 ---
Table of Contents
 Exhibit 7.1A – Outreach Materials (Commercial & Residential)
 Exhibit 7.1B – Waste Discharge Permit (WDP)
 Exhibit 7.1C – WDP Standard Terms, Conditions & Requirements
 Exhibit 7.1D – Best Management Practices for Food Service
Facilities
 Exhibit 7.1E – Pretreatment System Maintenance Log
 Exhibit 7.1F – Waste Discharge Permits Q&A
 Exhibit 7.1G – Inspection Form (Food Service Facility)
 Exhibit 7.1H – Preventative Maintenance: Priority Areas (Schedule
and Map)
 Exhibit 7.1I – Food Service Facilities, Inspection Frequency and
Other Information
523 of 891

--- page 524 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10A
City of San Mateo, Regulatory Compliance
Required Best Management Practices for
Food Service Facilities
Grease Removal Devices and Maintenance / Records
 If you generate grease, you will need a grease removal device (GRD).
A GRD is either a grease trap or a grease interceptor.
 To stop pipes from plugging, keep your GRD in continuous operation and clean.
-
-
At a minimum, clean the device every six months; or when the combined thickness of the floating fats,
oil and grease, and solids layers exceeds 25% of the total depth of the device.
 Keep a record of GRD cleanings in a logbook or binder for the Environmental Compliance Inspector to review:
-
-
-
-
Document the date
Who performed the cleaning
How much waste was removed
Where the waste was deposited
 If you hire a contractor to clean the GRD:
-
Confirm the work was performed as agreed
-
Keep the receipts in a folder as proof of service
Restaurant Operating Practices
 Greasy, dirty, water from cleaning the exhaust FILTERS should be drained into the sink connected to the
grease trap or interceptor - or disposed of offsite by your contractor.
-
Water from cleaning the exhaust HOODS is too dirty and should be disposed of offsite by your contractor.
 Waste oil should be collected in a tallow bin and disposed of by a grease-waste hauling company.
 To save money on GRD cleaning costs, use dry clean-up methods such as dry wiping with rubber scrapers
and paper towels. These practices reduce the solids and grease load to the GRD:
Scrape off excess food from plates and cookware into the trash.
Wipe the excess grease with paper towels and dispose of the towels in the trash.
Wash plates, pots, pans and utensils.
 Keep the ingredients in the bowl, not on the floor! To prevent spills:
-
-
Cover large containers when transporting
Securely store liquid materials away from floor drains
 To prevent solids from clogging pipes, keep strainers or screens over floor drains.
Storm Drain Protection
 It’s against the law to drain any water into a storm drain from washing floor mats or other equipment. Storm
drains lead directly to local creeks and the bay, and are for rain water only. Instead, pour dirty water in the
mop sink or an area connected to a sanitary drain.
 Don’t throw mop water out the back door! It is illegal to dump mop water to a storm drain.
Put it into a sink or sanitary drain instead.
 Keep it clean! Cover your dumpsters and clean your trash enclosure, tallow bins, or barrels to prevent trash
and grease waste from getting washed into the storm drain.
 Don’t rinse spills into the storm drain. Use dry clean-up methods (absorbents/kitty litter for oil spills) or a
wet-dry vacuum to clean outdoor spills.
524 of 891

--- page 525 ---
City of San Mateo, Regulatory Compliance
Municipal Code Applicable to
Food Service Establishments
Chapter 7.38 Sanitary Sewer Use
7.38.160. Requirements for Food Service Facilities
(a) The owner of every commercial, industrial, or institutional food service facility, shall install or cause to be installed a
pretreatment system for grease removal which meets or exceeds minimum sizing requirements of the Uniform Plumbing
Code, by no later than January 1, 2001. The Director shall approve final sizing.
7.38.100 Pretreatment of Industrial Waste
(c) Food service facilities shall have a pretreatment system for grease removal designed to serve all drains
that may discharge grease into the sewer, including floor drains.
7.38.120 Specific Discharge Prohibitions
(h) Oil and grease shall not be discharged into the sewer system if average concentration of floatable oil and
grease exceeds 20 mg/L, defined as that which is subject to gravity separation at a temperature of 20 degrees
Celsius and at pH 4.5; nor shall the total oil and grease concentration exceed 200 mg/L.
7.38.170 Operation and Maintenance of Pretreatment Systems
(a) Pretreatment systems shall be inspected and maintained by the user as needed to ensure continuous
efficient operation.
(c) A record of all inspection and maintenance activity shall be kept by the user at the facility showing the
date of inspection or maintenance, the activity completed, and the disposition of the removed contents,
filters cartridges, or other components.
(d) Failure to operate or maintain the pretreatment system in a way so as to ensure optimum efficiency, or
failure to keep records of pretreatment system maintenance shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
7.38.210 Waste Discharge Permit
(a) The Director shall require each significant industrial user to obtain a waste discharge permit.
(b) The Director may require other users to obtain waste discharge permits as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
7.38.390 Best Management Practices
(a) Where best management practices (BMP’s) have been established or adopted by the Director for an
activity, operation, or facility which may cause a prohibited discharge to the sanitary sewer or storm drain
systems, persons undertaking such activity or operation, or owning or operating such facility shall comply
with such requirements as may be specified by the Director in waste discharge permits, compliance
directives, printed material, or verbal notice. (Ord. 2006-1 § 1; Ord. 2003-7 § 1)
Chapter 7.39 Stormwater Management and Discharge Control
7.39.090 Discharge of Pollutants
(a) Non-stormwater discharges to the City storm drain system are prohibited.
7.39.110 Illicit Discharge
(a) It is prohibited to establish, use, maintain, or continue illicit drainage connections to the City storm drain
system, and to commence or continue any illicit discharges to the City storm drain system. This prohibition
applies to connections made in the past, regardless of whether made under a permit or whether permissible
under the law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection.
7.39.120 Reduction of Pollutants in Stormwater
Any person engaged in activities, which will or may result in pollutants entering the City storm drain system shall
undertake all practicable measures to reduce such pollutants.
525 of 891

--- page 526 ---
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR
FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES
Information for Restaurants | Cafeterias | Grocery Stores | Food Handling Facilities
Storm drains flow directly into creeks, San Francisco
GENERAL BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
Bay and the Pacific Ocean without any treatment. Non-
stormwater and other wastes that flow into a storm
drain cause pollution. Food handling facilities can cease
stormwater pollution through proper cleanup practices that
ensure food particles, oil and grease, litter, wash water and
cleaning products flow to interior sewer connections, which
ensures the water is treated prior to being released.
Keep Dumpster Area Clean
Close dumpster lids.
Routinely inspect dumpster area for cleanliness.
• If dumpsters overfill, consider having more dumpsters,
or increasing trash pick-up service.
• Replace leaking or cracked dumpsters.
NEVER RINSE OUTDOOR
AREA WITH HOSE
Only rain water is allowed down the
storm drains, because storm drains
connect directly to local creeks.
• If loose waste is on the ground, then sweep up.
Educate all staﬀ on keeping dumpster areas tidy. With
high rates of employee turnover, or when sharing a
dumpster area, post signs or have routine meetings on
proper BMPs.
Cooking Oil & Grease
Store oil and grease properly in permitted tallow bins;
never pour oil or grease in the trash, storm drain, street,
sinks or floor drains.
It is the responsibility of your business to use appropriate
Best Management Practices (BMPs) to keep wind or rain
from carrying pollution into the street.
Keep tallow bins clean & lids sealed.
Have tallow bin collection scheduled to maintain
adequate storage capacity.
Check roofop exhaust fans at least monthly. Place tray
under exhaust fan shrouds to collect oil; empty weekly at
a minimum.
Clean up spills right away (See back of this sheet).
Manage Outdoor Areas (Parking Lots, Outdoor Seating,
Staﬀ Break Areas, Outdoor Storage)
Empty trash bins into dumpster regularly.
Sweep frequently in trash-prone places.
If frequent litter issues, consider adding trash cans.
Place ash trays in cigarette-prone areas.
Roofed trash enclosure with doors closed.
Bilingual sign reminds staﬀ to keep area tidy.
Outdoor seating area
is swept frequently, is
covered, and has fencing
to keep debris from
Dumpster lid is closed, and there
is no loose trash on ground.
blowing into the street.
526 of 891

--- page 527 ---
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR
FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES
Information for Restaurants | Cafeterias | Grocery Stores | Food Handling Facilities
Properly cleaning and disposing of wash waters helps prevent pollution.
CLEANING BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
STORM DRAINS VS.
SANITARY SEWERS:
Do your employees know
the diﬀerence?
Use Dry Cleaning Methods
Sweep up dust, debris, and trash.
Vacuum floor mats. If water is needed, rinse mats in
dishwasher or mop utility sink. Never wash floor mats
outdoors or allow wash water to flow to outdoor areas.
Sweeping is an
example of a dr
cleaning metho
l outdoor drains are storm drains.
Pollution that enters storm drains
flows directly to creeks and San
Francisco Bay or the Ocean, not
treated or properly cleaned.
Do not clean equipment outdoors.
When hiring cleaning companies (e.g. for cleaning hood/roof equipment),
make sure the company uses dry cleaning methods. If wet methods are
used, block oﬀ gutters & use a pump/wet-vac, so no water spills oﬀ roof.
Indoor drains (such as sink, toilet,
mop sink, kitchen floor drain)
lead to the sanitary sewer system,
which is connected to a wastewater
treatment plant.
Contain and Manage Spills Promptly
Keep a spill kit near high risk areas (e.g. near
oil tallow bins, loading dock). Kit may include:
Barrier/Sock, Storm Drain Inlet Protection;
Absorbent granules or kitty litter, Towels, Pads;
Dustpan, Broom, Gloves, Trash Bags.
Mop sinks go to the sanitary
sewer and wastewater
treatment plant.
Contain the spill and protect nearby storm
drains immediately.
Use absorbents/towels to manage spill. Sweep
up and dispose of properly.
Never rinse water
down storm
drains.
Make sure staﬀ know spill plan and spill kit
location.
LOCAL STORMWATER AGENCIES:
Atherton . . . . . . (650) 752-0555
Belmont. . . . . . . (650) 637-2972
Brisbane . . . . . . (415) 508-2130
Burlingame. . . . (650) 342-3727
Colma . . . . . . . . (650) 757-8888
Daly City . . . . . . (650) 991-8208
East Palo Alto . . (650) 372-3189
Foster City. . . . . . . . . . . .(650) 286-3270
Half Moon Bay . . . . . . . .(650) 726-7177
Hillsborough . . . . . . . . .(650) 375-7444
Menlo Park . . . . . . . . . . .(650) 330-6750
Millbrae . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(650) 259-2392
Pacifica . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(650) 738-3767
Portola Valley . . . . . . . .(650) 851-1700
Redwood City . . . . . . . . (650) 780-7464
San Bruno . . . . . . . . . . . (650) 616-7020
San Carlos . . . . . . . . . . . (650) 802-4212
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . (650) 522-7300
San Mateo County . . . . (888) 442-2666
South San Francisco . . (650) 877-8555
Woodside . . . . . . . . . . . . (650) 851-6790
FOR MORE INFORMATION: 
(650) 599-1406 | www.flowstobay.org/food
UPDATED SEPTEMBER 2023
527 of 891

--- page 528 ---
NO GREASE DOWN

THE DRAIN?

EBMUD = Bay Area Pollution Prevention Group (BAPPG) « The California Fats, Oils, and Grease Work Group (Cal FOG) * The California Restaurant Association (CRA)

528 of 891


--- page 529 ---
EBMUD » Bay Area Pollution Prevention Group (BAPPG) + The California Fats, Oils, and Grease Work Group (Cal FOG) + The California Restaurant Association (CRA)

529 of 891


--- page 530 ---
sNO TIRE GRASA
AL DESAGUE?

EBMUD = Bay Area Pollution Prevention Group (BAPPG) * The California Fats, Oils, and Grease Worl Group (Cal FOG) * The California Restaurant Association (CRA)

530 of 891


--- page 531 ---
EBMUD ® Bay Area Pollution Prevention Group (BAPPG) ® The California Fats, Oils, and Grease Work Group (Cal FOG) © The California Restaurant Association (CRA)

531 of 891


--- page 532 ---
Prevent Costly Sewer Back-Ups
Information for Apartment Managers
Pouring grease down drains is an important cause of sanitary sewer backups and overflows in San
Mateo neighborhoods. The City of San Mateo Public Works Department is working hard to
maintain the public sewer through intense cleaning efforts, rehabilitation of old sewer lines and
education. We need you to protect and maintain your sewer lateral to help prevent the health threat
and environmental damage that overflows can cause.
Follow these tips to keep your lines clear of clogs year-round
Clean. Clean sewer lines regularly to prevent problems, or step up the number of cleanings if
you’re still experiencing backups. The City strongly recommends cleaning at least annually.
Catch and remove. Train maintenance staff to catch and remove the debris that is dislodged
during a cleaning. Be sure any plumbers you contact do the same to assure that you are getting
what you pay for. If materials are not removed or simply pushed down the pipe, you are not
solving the problem—you are simply paying for it to recur later.
Educate. Remind tenants of the importance of properly disposing kitchen wastes and other
materials. Enclosed are some informational pieces that can be distributed to tenants and posted on
bulletin boards or trash collection areas. The City can also provide newsletter articles and on-site
training upon request. Call us at 650-522-7300 for more information.
Help residents understand how it helps them
It keeps rent low. With too many costly backups, you may have to raise rent. The State of
California is also stepping up enforcement of sanitary sewer overflows from the multi-family
sector, so preparation is the key.
It protects their property. A sewer backup in a dwelling unit causes significant damage to floors
and personal property.
It protects human health and the environment. Overflows contaminate yards, creeks and city
streets and expose community residents to health and environmental hazards.
What should residents do?
• Pour grease and oil into a lidded container, and place it in the trash. To help solidify the grease,
freeze it or add coffee grounds, kitty litter or other absorbent material.
• Use paper towels to wipe excess grease from pans and utensils before washing them.
• Never put grease, medications, diapers, paper or other objects down drains or toilets.
For more information, please contact Public Works at 650-522-7300
532 of 891

--- page 533 ---
Please
Help Prevent Sewer Backups
and Overflows
Disposal of grease and solid objects down drains and toilets is a leading cause of
sanitary sewer backups. 
Sewer backups may result in raised rents due to
increased maintenance costs, as well as possible penalties for property, health,
and environmental damages! 
Help prevent sewer blockages by taking these
steps:
DO NOT PUT GREASE, PAPER TOWELS, DIAPERS,
MEDICATIONS, DISPOSABLE MOPS, OR OTHER
SOLID OBJECTS DOWN SINKS OR TOILETS.
Pour grease into a lidded container and
place it in the trash. To help solidify the
grease, 
mix 
the 
grease 
with 
coffee
grounds, kitty litter, paper towels, or other
absorbent materials.
Use paper towels to wipe excess grease
from pans and utensils before washing
them, and dispose the wipes in the trash.
Dispose of diapers, plastics, disposable
mops and wipes, facial tissue and other
solid objects in the trash. Do not flush any
of these down a drain!
Please do not throw away old medications
down the drain or in the trash. Instead,
drop them off at a collection container
located 
at 
the 
San 
Mateo 
Police
Department, 200 Franklin Parkway.
City of San Mateo Public Works Department 6/09
533 of 891

--- page 534 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10B
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 PACIFIC BLVD., SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TELEPHONE 650-522-7300
WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT
1. Facility Name/Location:
2. User (Permit Holder):
3. Permit ID/Term/Transferability:
ID: (Facility Name)
Effective:
Expires:
NOT TRANSFERABLE
4. Facility Description:
FOOD PREP SERVICES
7. Waste Stream
POT SINK
5. Industrial Activity:
6. User Classification:
II
9. Minimum Maint. Frequency:
1x EVERY MOHTH
FULL SRV COMM KITCHEN
8. Waste Pretreatment System(s):
GREASE TRAP
N/A
10. Other Pretreatment Requirements:
11. Waste Discharge Sampling Frequency: ..………………………...........…
12. Reporting Frequency:……………………..…………………………………..
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
A. User (Permit Holder) shall discharge industrial waste streams listed in Item 7 above to the sanitary sewer through the waste
pretreatment system(s) specified in Item 8. Bypass or removal of listed waste pretreatment systems is prohibited except as
provided in Attachment B Section 8, “Pretreatment System Bypasses”.
B. Do not modify a waste pretreatment system that in any way impairs unit efficiency.
C. Maintain waste pretreatment systems at a frequency not less than manufacturer instructions or at the frequency indicated in
Item 9 above, whichever is more frequent. “Maintain” means the change out of filters/cartridges/screening devices if unit
contains such devices, and/or removal of contained accumulated wastes, as applicable. This is a preventive schedule and
does not preclude User from conducting more frequent maintenance or other preventive measures to prevent discharge of
untreated or inadequately treated wastes to sanitary sewer system.
D. Keep 
records 
of 
waste 
pretreatment 
systems 
maintenance, 
including 
change-out 
dates 
of 
treatment
filters/cartridges/screening devices, as applicable; pumping and/or clean out of accumulated wastes, etc. Records must be
kept on site and available for review by City inspectors at all times. “Records” means waste pretreatment system service
receipts and waste hauling records. When waste treatment system service is performed by User, record maintenance
activity for each system on Attachment D or equivalent.
E. Conform to other pretreatment requirements specified in Item 10. If “N/A”, no other requirements apply at time of permit
issuance.
F. 
Conform to monitoring and reporting requirements specified in Items 11 and 12 above. If “N/A” is indicated, User is not
subject to waste sampling and/or reporting requirements at time of permit issuance.
G. Do not discharge to the sewer any hazardous waste, as defined in Section 25117 of the Health and Safety Code, nor any
materials that alone or in combination with other wastes may cause an obstruction in the sewer system, inhibit wastewater
treatment processes, create corrosive or hazardous conditions in the sewer system, or cause a public nuisance.
H. Notify the City/District at (650) 522-7300 within 24 hours of becoming aware of any of the following: 1) discharge of a
hazardous waste; 2) discharge of any abnormally high volume or concentration of waste; 3) pretreatment system bypass; or
4) pretreatment system upset. 
In addition, notify City/District 30 days in advance of any proposed change in facility
operations that may affect the quantity or quality of waste discharged to the sanitary sewer system.
I. 
Maintain a written procedure for industrial process equipment and work area cleaning that minimizes potential for discharge
of toxic process wastes (e.g., solvents, trace metals, etc.) to the sewer system through drains that do not drain through
pretreatment systems, and train employees on these procedures annually.
J. 
Comply with STANDARD TERMS, CONDITIONS, AND REQUIREMENTS (Attachment B).
AUTHORIZATION TO DISCHARGE:
The above named User (Permit Holder) is hereby authorized to
discharge wastewater to the public sewer, subject to User’s
compliance with City of San Mateo/EMID Sanitary Sewer Use
Ordinances and this permit, and payment of applicable fees.
City of San Mateo, Regulatory Compliance Manager
534 of 891

--- page 535 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10C
CITY OF SAN MATEO / ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 PACIFIC BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TELEPHONE: (650) 522-7300
WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT – ATTACHMENT B
STANDARD TERMS, CONDITIONS, AND REQUIREMENTS
1.
Construction and Application of Permit. This waste
7.
Notification of Spills. User shall immediately notify
discharge permit is issued pursuant to the sewer use
ordinances of the City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal
Improvement District (City/District). 
In the event of any
apparent conflict between the requirements established in a
waste discharge permit and the Federal Pretreatment
Regulations, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
the City/District of any discharge, reasonably judged to
constitute a hazard to the public health, environment, city
personnel, or wastewater treatment facilities including, but
not limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of a non-
routine episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug discharge. A follow-up written report must be
submitted within five (5) days of the incident. If deemed
necessary, City/District may require User to develop and
implement spill prevention and slug discharge control plans.
2.
General Prohibited Discharges. User (Permit Holder)
shall not discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, to a public sewer or storm drain, any waste in such
quantity, that alone, or in combination with other waste
substances, may a) endanger the health and safety of the
public or City/District staff; b) cause damage to the sewer or
storm drain systems; c) cause a public nuisance; d) result in
inflating the cost of preventive maintenance, collection,
treatment, or disposal; e) cause interference 
with
wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal; f) result in or
may contribute to a violation of the City’s NPDES permit or
other regulatory requirement; or g) prevent, hinder, delay, or
impede compliance with effluent discharge requirements
established by the regulatory agencies.
8.
Pretreatment System Bypasses. A bypass of a waste
pretreatment system is prohibited unless (1) the bypass is
unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe
property damage; (2) there is no feasible alternative to the
bypass; (3) the City/District is promptly notified of the
bypass, (4) if the bypass does not cause a violation of
pretreatment standards or requirements; and (5) if it is for
essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the
treatment system. If User knows in advance of the need for
a bypass, User shall submit notice to City/District at least 10
days prior to the date of the planned bypass. If an
unanticipated bypass occurs, User must notify City/District
within 24 hours from the time User becomes aware of the
bypass and shall submit a written report within 5 days.
3.
Dilution Prohibited. 
Do not increase the use of
potable or process water or, in any way attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in this permit.
9.
Pretreatment System Upset. 
User shall control
production of all discharges to the extent necessary to
maintain 
compliance 
with 
categorical 
pretreatment
standards upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment
facilities until the facility is restored or an alternative method
of treatment is provided. If an upset occurs, User shall notify
City/District within 24 hours from the time User becomes
aware of the upset and shall submit a written report within 5
days.
4.
Pretreatment System Operation and Maintenance
Requirements. Pretreatment system(s) shall be inspected
and maintained per the schedule specified in a waste
discharge permit or as otherwise approved in writing by the
City/District. Records shall be kept of all such inspections,
maintenance, and repairs.
5.
Hazardous Waste Notification. 
User shall notify
10.
City/District
Inspections and Monitoring. 
User shall allow a
inspector 
presenting 
credentials 
and
City/District, the U.S. EPA, and the Regional Water Quality
Control Board, of any substance discharged, which, if
otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under
40 CFR Part 261, within 24 hours from the time User
becomes aware of the discharge, followed by a written report
to City/District within 5 days.
identification to enter the premises upon request and without
unreasonable delay for the purpose of inspection and
sampling. Reasonable times for inspection may include
times that are unannounced, and may include any time
during which User activities may result in a process waste
discharge to the sewer system.
6.
Changed Discharge Notification. User shall notify
City/District at least thirty (30) days before commencement
of discharge to (1) report any significant changes to the
quantity or quality of waste discharged to the sanitary sewer
system; and/or (2) report any discharge of wastes or use of
facilities which are not in conformance with the User’s waste
discharge permit. 
User shall report potential for a slug
discharge immediately.
11.
Records Retention. Records shall be retained by the
User for least three (3) years from the date of the report to
which the records are applicable, or three (3) years from the
date any investigation or enforcement action undertaken by
the City, State, or USEPA has concluded, or such other time
as may be directed by the City/District.
March 7, 2025 Rev.
535 of 891

--- page 536 ---
Waste Discharge Permit, Attachment B - Standard Terms, Conditions, and Requirements
12.
Best Management Practices. 
In addition to any
19.
Appeals. User may have, at its request, a hearing
pretreatment system requirements, User shall implement
work practices that help reduce and prevent a prohibited
discharge to the sanitary sewer system or waste discharge
before the San Mateo City Manager or his/her designee, or
the Estero Municipal Improvement District Manager or
designee, as applicable, before the waste discharge permit
is revoked, modified, suspended, or made subject to
additional terms and conditions.
to the storm drainage system.
Appropriate best
management practices (BMPs) may be specified in a waste
discharge permit, compliance directive, printed material, or
verbal notice.
20.
Noncompliance with Permit. Failure to comply with
any of the terms, conditions, or requirements specified in a
waste discharge permit shall constitute a violation of the
permit. It is the responsibility of the User to make
determinations as to the nature of its operation and waste
discharge characteristics and to take such actions as may
be required to comply with discharge requirements.
13.
Employee Training. User shall take necessary steps
to inform appropriate personnel employed by the User of
waste discharge permit requirements. Such personnel shall
include workers and supervisors whose duties pertain in any
manner to waste discharges specified in the permit. Steps
to inform such personnel may include orientation of
appropriate personnel and posting of work stations with
signs, or equally effective methods.
21.
Enforcement Actions – Administrative. A User found
in noncompliance with a waste discharge permit will first be
issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) that describes the
violation and orders compliance by a certain date. Failure to
meet the compliance date may subject the User to
administrative 
citation, 
inspection 
fees, 
and 
other
enforcement remedies available.
14.
Confidential Information. Any information submitted
to or collected by the City/District in connection with a waste
discharge permit shall be made available to the public
without restriction, unless the User specifically requests, and
is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City/District,
that the release of such information would divulge
information that would be detrimental to the User’s
competitive position and is not required to be disclosed
under the California Public Records Act, or similar law. A
user may be prohibited from discharging a substance unless
its composition is made known to the City/District.
22.
Enforcement Actions – Civil and Criminal Penalties.
A User who has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of a waste discharge permit, shall be liable for a
civil penalty of not more than $10,000 per day plus actual
damages incurred by the City or District for as long as the
violation continues. A user who intentionally or negligently
violates any provision of a waste discharge permit shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
fine or imprisonment or both.
15.
Modification or Revision of Permit. The terms and
conditions of this permit are subject to modification by the
City/District at any time as just cause exists. Any permit
modification which results in new conditions in the permit
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance if
necessary.
23.
Enforcement Remedies Not Exclusive. Remedies
cited in a waste discharge permit are not exclusive.
City/District may take all or any combination of these
remedies against
a violator, as well as any other
16.
Duration and Transferability of Permit. 
A waste
enforcement remedies which the City/District may have
available.
discharge permit shall be issued for a time period not to
exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit.
Permit effective date and expiration date are indicated on
permit. If the User wishes to continue to discharge after the
permit expiration date, User must submit an application for
renewal not less than 30 days prior to permit expiration date.
Permit is issued to a specific user for a specific operation
and is not assignable to another user or transferable to any
other location.
24.
Annual Publication. At least annually, City/District
shall provide public notice in the largest local daily
newspaper a list of those significant industrial users that,
during the previous 12 months, were found in significant
noncompliance, as 
defined in the Sanitary Sewer
Ordinance(s) of the City/District.
25.
Hold Harmless. Liability for damages as a result of
17.
Continuation of Expired Permits. An expired permit
discharges in violation of the permit is the responsibility of
the User causing or responsible for the discharge, and User
shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City and/or
District in any administrative or judicial enforcement action
relating to such discharge.
will continue to be effective and enforceable until the permit
is reissued if the User has submitted a complete application
for renewal at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the
User’s existing permit, and the failure to reissue the permit
prior to the expiration of the previous permit is not due to any
act or failure to act on the part of the User.
26.
Recovery of Costs Incurred 
If a User’s discharge
results in damage to or otherwise inhibits the wastewater
disposal system, User shall be liable for any expense, loss,
or damage caused by such discharge. The City/District shall
bill the User for the costs incurred for any cleaning, repair, or
replacement work caused by the discharge.
18.
Fees. Routine charges associated with this permit
may include, but are not limited to; permit annual fee,
wastewater sampling fee, inspection fee, and penalties for
noncompliance with permit. Basic sewer service charge
applies to discharge of groundwater or other wastes.
27.
Severability and Validity. 
If any provision of this
permit or the sanitary sewer use ordinances of the
City/District, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this permit
shall not be affected.
Page 2 of 2
536 of 891

--- page 537 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10D
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 PACIFIC BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TELEPHONE (650) 522-7300
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES
Implement the following work practices as each may apply to your operation to help minimize discharge of FOG wastes
to the sanitary sewer system. For more information call the Regulatory Compliance Division at (650) 522-7300.
Drain Screens. Clean drain screens on all
drains in food preparation areas frequently.
Dispose of food solids in trash or food waste
recycling container.
Liquid Food Wastes. Do not dispose
liquid food, milk shake syrups, batters and
gravy, or other oily or fatty wastes down the
drain. Use materials to absorb liquid and
dispose in trash or food waste container.
Dish Cleaning. Scrape or wipe fat, oil,
grease and other food residue from
cookware, utensils, etc., prior to
dishwashing. Dispose food waste in trash or
food recycling container. Use detergents,
not soaps (soaps contain oil)
Food Grinder. Minimize or avoid use of
food grinder, as food solids can contribute to
clogged drain pipes and/or fill grease traps
and interceptors.
Trash and Recycling Containers. Inspect
trash and recycling containers regularly for
leaks and replace leaking containers
promptly.
Used Oils and Grease. Collect all used
cooking oils and grease from pots, pans,
and fryers and dispose in designated
container for recycling. Do not dispose
down drain or in trash.
Drain Cleaning Chemicals. Avoid use of
emulsifiers or solvents other than typical
dishwashing detergents. Use of drain
cleaning chemicals is not a substitute for the
required physical cleaning of grease traps
and interceptors.
Spill Prevention. Use container with cover
to transfer cooking oils and grease from
kitchen to outdoor storage container. Empty
containers before they are full to avoid spills.
Spill Cleanup. Use absorbents such as cat
litter or paper towels to pick up oil and
grease spills before mopping. Keep spill
cleanup supplies well marked and readily
available.
Mats and Range Hood Filters. Dispose of
oily wastewaters from cleaning operations in
drain connected to grease interceptor; or
use professional service that provides
replacement mats and filters and cleans
mats and filters at off-site location.
Fryers. Use absorbent paper under fryer
baskets. Dispose in trash or with recycled
food waste.
Grease Traps and Drains. Use
professional service to pump and off-haul
grease trap wastes. Alternatively, collect
skimmed oils, grease and food solids and
dispose of properly.
Solid Food Wastes. Dispose of food waste
in trash or food waste recycling container,
not in sinks. Transfer a manageable weight
to prevent spill. Use heavy duty or double
clear container bags to help minimize
container odors and leaks.
Employee Education. Post “no Grease”
best practices signs in appropriate work
areas
537 of 891

--- page 538 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10E
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 PACIFIC BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TELEPHONE: (650) 522-7300
Name of Business:
Street Address:
Waste Stream:
POT SINK
Waste Pretreatment System:
GREASE TRAP
Minimum Maint. Frequency:
1x EVERY MOHTH
WASTE PRETREATMENT SYSTEM MAINTENANCE LOG
Instructions: Maintain complete records of waste treatment system maintenance using this form or equivalent.
Use separate form for each treatment system if systems are on different maintenance schedule. Briefly describe
type of activity completed (e.g. removed floating matter, removed sludge, pumped tank, rotated cartridges, tested
pH, etc.). Keep this completed form and all supporting documentation (e.g service receipts, waste manifests) on
site and available for inspection at all times.
Date
Maintenance Activity Description
Initials
I certify that the information recorded above is, to best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I
am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
Signature of Supervising Official
Title
538 of 891

--- page 539 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10F
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 PACIFIC BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
TELEPHONE 650-522-7300
Waste Discharge Permits for Food Service Facilities
Frequently Asked Questions
Who Needs a Waste Discharge Permit?
What does the permit cover?
Any food store, eating place, or food preparer
that bakes or cooks food on the premises must
apply for a waste discharge permit.
The permit formally conveys the same items that
have been and will be inspected by the
City/District. These include pretreatment system
maintenance 
procedures 
and 
maintenance
records, and proper handling of pretreatment
system waste. The inspector also inspects for
records of cooking grease handling and disposal,
and other practices that affect discharge of FOG
into the sewer system.
Why these facilities?
Food service facilities commonly generate fat,
oil, and grease (FOG) wastes in the cooking
process. 
Wastewater from kitchen cleaning
operations typically contains FOG wastes. FOG
wastes can build up in the sewer system, and
result in partial or total blockage of the sewer.
Blockage can result in sewer backups and
overflows.
What is a pretreatment system?
An under-counter grease trap and outdoor grease
interceptor 
are 
examples 
of 
pretreatment
systems. These are devices that are required to
be installed on drain lines that may carry FOG
wastes in the wastewater.
Why a permit?
Federal and state regulations, as well as
municipal preventive maintenance costs, are
prompting an increased level of sewer system
monitoring, maintenance, and recordkeeping.
The City/District has found that while periodic
inspection of commercial kitchens helps identify
and correct problems, the message about
effectively preventing FOG discharge into the
sewer system is often lost over time. A permit
provides the means to formally convey sewer
discharge requirements and the consequences of
failure to comply with the requirements. The
permit also serves as ready reference to these
requirements that can be referred to by facility
management and staff at any time.
How do I know if I need to install or upgrade
a pretreatment system?
At minimum, any kitchen utensil cleaning sink
or wok range must drain through a pretreatment
system. Pretreatment systems must conform to
the Uniform Plumbing Code.
When can I anticipate an inspection?
The business will be inspected annually to assure
compliance with permit requirements. The
municipal code authorizes that inspections be
conducted during normal business hours and
may be unannounced.
539 of 891

--- page 540 ---
Doesn’t the county health department already
inspect for compliance with sewer discharge
requirements?
Are there fees associated with the permit?
The City of San Mateo has an annual
waste discharge permit fee. 
For Fiscal Year
2024-25, the fee was $778.00. Foster City/
Estero has adopted a similar fee. 
The fee
recovers a portion of 
the 
cost 
of 
the
No. The City has primary authority over use of
the sewer system. 
The county environmental
health 
inspector 
does 
not 
inspect 
sewer
pretreatment systems for proper operation and
maintenance. 
A county inspector will take
action on a sewer issue if they determine that the
public health is threatened.
program.
Please
submit 
payment 
upon
receiving the annual invoice.
How do I apply for the permit?
The application for a waste discharge permit is
What are the penalties for noncompliance?
enclosed.
Please
complete
and
return
A Notice of Violation (NOV) is issued if the
noncompliance has likely not resulted in
impairment to the sewer system, such as a
recordkeeping issue. There is no fee or fine with
the first NOV. An administrative citation may
accompany the NOV for likely discharge of FOG
to the sewer and for repeat violations. Follow-up
inspection fees may also apply. There are other
enforcement remedies available for chronic
violations.
the application within 10 days of your receipt of
the attached letter (or within 30 days if you have
not yet begun discharging wastewater from
your business). You will have an opportunity
to go over 
any 
questions 
or 
concerns
with the City/District staff.
Who do I talk to for information and
assistance with this program?
Please contact the City of San Mateo Department
of 
Public 
Works, 
Regulatory Compliance
Division, at (650) 522-7300.
Rev 03/25
540 of 891

--- page 541 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10G
FOOD SERVICE FACILITY INSPECTION REPORT
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Date:
Inspection Type:
Facility Name:
New
Routine
Follow-up
Complaint
Closed
Stormwater
Facility Type:
Inspector:
City:
Site Address:
Contact Name:
Title:
Phone:
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
Current WDP on file?
Yes
No
Exempt (explain):
WDP Application Provided?
Yes
No
Application Due Date (if “Yes”):
Description/location of Permitted GRD(s):
Maintenance Frequency Reqd:
Clean once every __________
FIXTURES CONNECTED TO GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE: Note “YES”/“NO” if present, “NA” if not present, ”UNK” if connection uncertain
Tri-well Sink(s):
Dual-Well Sink(s):
Pre-Wash Sink(s):
Prep Sink(s):
Dishwasher:
Ice Machine:
Floor Drain(s):
Other:
Mop/Janitorial Sink:
Number of fixtures discharging to GRD:
PRETREATMENT/GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
Yes
No
N/A
1
GRD(s) in service?
2
3
4
Emulsifiers or enzymes used in traps / interceptors for O&G control?
GRD(s) inspection/maintenance frequency (verbal):
GRD(s) maintenance records/logsheet available for review?
5
Waste Type
Brown Grease (GRD Waste)
Yellow Grease/Oil (Tallow)
GRD(s) opened for inspection?
Maintenance Performed by:
Last Service (date):
5a
5b
6
GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE PHYSICAL INSPECTION
Tee(s) & Riser(s)
Baffle Wall(s)
Lid(s)
Sample Box
Flow Regulator
Present
Present
Present
Present
Present
Missing
Damaged
Damaged
Absent
Submerged
Submerged
Improper Fit
NA (Trap)
Other:
Other:
Other:
Other:
Other:
Absent
NA (Interceptor)
Total Depth of Liquid:______
FOG (avg):______ 
Solids (avg):______
FOG+Solids/Total Depth X 100 = ______ % Accumulation
Notes:
OTHER SOURCES DISCHARGING TO THE GREASE REMOVAL DEVICE
Yes
Yes
No
No
N/A
N/A
7
8
9
Floor Mat Washing
Garbage Disposal/Grinder
Exhaust Hood Filter Cleaning
10 
Exhaust Hood Cleaning
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
11 
Are food scraps & grease from cooking and serving equipment scraped into trash for disposal?
12 
Is staff aware of proper grease removal device operation and maintenance practices?
13 
Are exhaust screens, filters, and hoods routinely maintained?
14 
Is Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) used (for service / take-out)?
PRETREATMENT ENFORCEMENT
None (Compliant)
Verbal Warning
Warning Notice
Notice of Violation
Citation
City Attorney
Violation Abated  Date:
Notes:
Q:\pw\PWENG\SOURCE\Forms\Food Service Facility Inspection Form + Stormwater (rev. 02MAR23).docx
541 of 891

--- page 542 ---
STORMWATER FACILITY INSPECTION REPORT
CITY OF SAN MATEO/ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Date:
Reason for Inspection:
Facility Name:
New
Routine
Response to Complaint
Inspector:
Follow-up
Site Address:
Business Type/Activity:
Title:
Contact Name:
Phone:
STORMWATER PERMIT
Is facility subject to the General Industrial Stormwater Permit?
Has the facility filed a Notice of Intent (NOI) for coverage under the General Permit?
Is the facility covered under any other program or permits? 
None 
WDP
Copper 
Mercury
Yes
Yes
No
No
N/A
N/A
Other:
PCBs
Pollutants of Concern Used at Facility?
None
Other:
FACILITY INSPECTION
Please describe specific activity or pollutant source for the categories below. If a facility does not have the specified area, indicate such
with an “NA”. Check for potential or actual discharge to SDI.
Potential
Discharge 
Discharge
Actual
NA
Activity Areas
Outdoor Process/Manufacturing Areas:
Outdoor Material Storage Areas:
Outdoor Waste Storage/Disposal:
Outdoor Vehicle/Heavy Equipment Storage/Maintenance Areas:
Outdoor Parking Areas/Access Roads:
Outdoor Wash Areas:
Outdoor Drainage From Inside Areas:
Rooftop Equipment
Other (describe):
SUMMARY OF STORMWATER INSPECTION
Were any of the potential or actual discharges conditionally exempt ?
If “Yes” describe:
Yes
No
Describe specific problems:
Problem resolution/Corrective action:
BMPs distributed?
Yes
No 
Describe:
STORMWATER ENFORCEMENT
None (Compliant)
Non-Compliant (Potential)
Non-Compliant (Actual)
Verbal Warning
Warning Notice
Notice of Violation
Citation
City Attorney
Violation Abated 
Date:
Notes:
Q:\pw\PWENG\SOURCE\Forms\Food Service Facility Inspection Form + Stormwater (rev. 02MAR23).docx
542 of 891

--- page 543 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10G (continued)
CITY OF SAN MATEO / ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS, REGULATORY COMPLIANCE DIVISION
1949 Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403 Telephone: (650) 522-7300
INSPECTION NOTICE
Facility Name: ___________________________ 
Address: __________________________
San Mateo
Foster City
I acknowledge that the City of San Mateo, Public Works, Regulatory Compliance Division inspected the facility noted
above on: _________________________________________.
At the time of inspection, the facility named above was determined to have:
No violations and is compliant with all applicable regulations
The following violation(s) and subsequent corrective action(s) required (SMMC/EMID):
7.38.210/8.37.210: Waste Discharge Permit Required
7.38.170/8.37.170: O&M of Pretreatment Device
7.38.432/8.37.432: Private Sewer Lateral
SMMC 7.39.090: Non-Stormwater Discharge Prohibited
SMMC 7.39.120: Reduction of Pollutants in Stormwater
SMMC 7.39.245: Threatened Discharge
Other: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(SMMC = San Mateo Municipal Code) (EMID = Estero Municipal Improvement District)
Description of Violation(s):
Corrective Action(s) Required:
The following Best Management Practices (BMP) documents were provided during the inspection:
Enforcement Action:
Sanitary Sewer:
Stormwater:
None
None
Verbal Warning
Verbal Warning
Written Warning
Written Warning
Notice of Violation
Notice of Violation
Citation
Citation
You are hereby notified to implement the corrections or actions noted above within ____ day(s) from the date of this notice.
(No later than _____________________________).
I acknowledge that by doing business/residing in the City of San Mateo/Estero Municipal Improvement District, this
facility/residence is required to implement and adhere to Best Management Practices and to comply with the Municipal
Code Sections SMMC 7.38/7.39 and EMID 8.37.
Received by
Print Name:
Signature:
Title:
Inspected by
Inspector:
Phone:
Date:
543 of 891

--- page 544 ---
Exhibit 7.10H
SEWER PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE “HOT SPOTS” LIST
Updated – April 24, 2024
MONTHLY SEWER PM’S
Location
Linear Feet
Common Cond. Reason for PM
Smartcover on MH492-13. Clean until
repairs can be made by engineering.
Smartcover removed due to improved
maintenance. Date unknown
1
2
31st & Hacienda
603
ROOTS
Referred to engineering for re-
engineering of pipe where dips under
utility junction box creating a siphon, &
to replace broken ECR pipe.
El Camino Real @ Baywood
263
SOLIDS
FOG
Baywood section removed 6-25-2012.
3
4
3170 Casa de Campo
Idaho (1113 College)
661
1132
1169
Needs FOG education.
Pipe taps in below water level
of trunk line.
FOG & BAD
GRADE
Continue PM’s until Pipe upgraded
under Hwy 101.
5
6
Indian
FOG, SOLIDS
FOG
Keep on a monthly – but twice a year
flail line instead of jet. Refer to Source
Control for FOG control & checks of
grease trap.
Added to PM’s May 2008. Jet main
and 100’ of Lateral into Marina Market.
Cleaning increased from 308 ft to
1,466ft at an unknown date
Peninsula Monthly Jet
NOTE: Flail in Jan & July
2581
308
7
Norfolk & La Selva
FOG
Lines consistently plugged with paper.
8
9
1st & Delaware
522
PAPER
Continue monthly cleaning until re-
engineered.
9th Ave – RR to Palm Ave
1016
GRADE ISSUES
Roots
10 315 Virginia – Monthly Flail
11 Winway Powerrod
338
173
ROOTS
SOLIDS
A siphon MH
544 of 891

--- page 545 ---
MONTHLY SEWER PM’S (continued)
Location
Linear Feet
Common Cond.
Reason for PM
2049 Shoreview – drop pipe (needs to
be fixed in order to reach/cut protruding
tap at 2045). Also, nozzle gets stuck at
2001 – 2005.
Repairs completed, remains a monthly
due to low flow
12 Shoreview
853
682
BREAKS/ROOTS
FOG, SLUDGE
FOG and sludge issues in area.
13 
9th and Laurel (Bi-Weekly)
14 
Peninsula Ave Additional Lines
15 
El Parque and Los Prados
TOTAL LF:
735
227
FOG
SOLIDS
10,925
QUARTERLY SEWER PM’S
Location
Linear Feet
Common Cond. 
Reason for PM
1
2
25th Avenue & Lula Belle Alley
2150
FOG
Restaurants. Needs FOG control.
Bayswater & Idaho Qrtly
3214
HEAVY FOG
Flat line – holds solids.
FOG / SOLIDS
Refer to Engineering for pipe
replacement & size upgrade.
3
Bromfield / Fulton Qrtly Flail
1733
4
5
6
Downtown Region 1
Downtown Region 2A
Downtown Region 2B
1979
1406
6605
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
7
Downtown Region 3A
Downtown Region 3B
Downtown Region 4A
3165
2738
5183
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
Restaurants & Apts
Restaurants & Apts
8
9
Restaurants & Apts
545 of 891

--- page 546 ---
QUARTERLY SEWER PM’S (continued)
10 
Downtown Region 4B
4791
2097
2830
2718
2097
3080
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG / SOLIDS
FOG
Restaurants & Apts
11 
Downtown Region 4C
Restaurants & Apts
12 
Ellsworth / Baldwin (DT 6)
13 
El Camino Real – Seville to 16th
Restaurants & Apts
Referred to Engineering for repair of sag.
14
El Camino Real 21st to 25th
FOG
Restaurants & Apts.
Restaurants & Apts.
15 
El Camino Real 25th to 31st
FOG
16 
31st Ave – El Camino to Edison
1449
FOG
Mall foodcourt grease. FOG Control.
Continue PM’s & identify root control
tactics.
17 
42nd Ave & Dumont
709
173
FOG
18
A siphon MH
Winway Jet & Vacuum MH
SOLIDS
19 
1750 El Camino Real
20 
El Camino & El Cerrito
21 
Palm Ave siphons
22 
Mariners Island 6
1085
194
166
316
FOG
FOG
backups from heavy FOG
Flat line – holds FOG.
Siphon manholes – fill up with rags,
etc.
RAGS
SOLIDS
Ongoing solids issues in area
Solids issues in area
23 
111 E Santa Inez
228
SOLIDS
SOLIDS
Solids issues in area
24 
McLellan & Curtiss
1803
Solids issues in area
Heavy FOG
25 
177 N El Camino Real
26 
145 Sylvan
229
835
SOLIDS
FOG
Solids issues in area
27 
Crystal Springs Road
1145
SOLIDS
546 of 891

--- page 547 ---
Solids issues in area
Solids issues in area
28 
37th and ECR
472
SOLIDS
QUARTERLY SEWER PM’S (continued)
29 
6 Fairoaks
523
SOLIDS
FOG, roots issues in
areaCamilleri, SUPV
30 
S Norfolk and Budd Ct
31 
Borden
1120
372
FOG, ROOTS
Solids, FOG, rags issues in area
Camilleri, SUPV
SOLIDS, FOG
RAGS
Roots / root buildup problem in
area from Pacific to Curtiss.
32 Poinsettia
828
ROOTS
FOG issues in area
33 
Hamlet / Roberta / Norfolk
1085
FOG
34 
237 Irving
337
35 Fairfax & Amhurst
148
596
36 
1900 Alameda
Added 2-15-22 Per Tony B. Multiple
plugs.
37 
824 Highland Ave
491
Needs FOG education & grease
interceptor. Changed to quarterly
4/24/24 per Eric M.
38 
East Hillsdale Qtly
1288
FOG
Mariners Island 2 PS to Bridgepointe
Circle
Pumpstation Rehab Complete
Pumpstation rehabilitation project
complete – repair of pipe sag unknown.
Changed to Qtly per Eric M. 4/24/24.
1210
SAG
39
Roots
Added 2023 per Eric M.
40 
Kingridge Qtly
983
TOTAL LF:
63,561
547 of 891

--- page 548 ---
BI-ANNUAL SEWER PM’S (June, December)
Location
Linear Feet
Common Cond.
Reason for PM
Alder Easement
1
2
617
439
Issue?
Barneson & El Camino Real
509 Castilian Powerrod
ROOTS
ROOTS
Changed back to Jet from PR
Refer to engineering to repair break
and offset joint. CCTV’d to confirm
repairs were completed, removed
4/2024 per Eric M.
0
3
4
El Camino Real – Hillsdale to 38th
3073
FOG
El Camino Real – 38th to 41st
Edison & Bayview
5
6
1347
0
FOG
Removed per Eric M. 4/24/24.
Multiple repairs performed to fix.
ROOTS
Hydrosaw to clear line. No longer
Hydrosaw/Jet only per Eric M. 4/24/24
Holland / Norfolk / Hosmer Hydrosaw
7
0
FOG
Holland / Norfolk / Hosmer Jet
1865 Kehoe
8
9
1327
309
FOG
FOG & SOLIDS
10 
Murphy Easement
1752
2103
ROOTS /BREAKS
ROOTS
Refer to Engineering for pipe
replacement & upsize – replace
possibly past Crescent to where
upper Poplar pipe was replaced.
Poplar – Crescent to El Camino
11
Sunnybrae School
12 
Clean during Summer and Easter
Break (July & March/April)
19 Wildwood
938
342
DEBRIS
ROOTS
13
548 of 891

--- page 549 ---
BI-ANNUAL SEWER PM’S (June, December) (continued)
Location
Linear Feet
Common Cond. 
Reason for PM
258 East 40th Ave
House 258 Backs Up if line not
cleared regularly b/c of sags.
14
15
248
SAGS
Solids issues in area per sewer crew
feedback. CCTV’d to confirm pipe
integrity, removed 4/2024 per Eric M.
139 Arbor
0
SOLIDS
Gramercy at El Cerrito (formerly 80 El
16 Cerrito Quarterly)
Sag in pipe. Clean until can be
repaired.
157
17 
Elm Street
941
FOG
Area notorious for FOG.
Det (from apts) & Roots (by Elks)
below City Hall back up line – can
overflow in City Hall.
18 
20TH Avenue
2950
DET & ROOTS
FOG problems in area. Removed
4/24/24 per Eric M. due to PS
rehab work
Woodbridge
JAN/JULY
19
20
0
FOG
Poplar Creek
GC
433
370
SOLIDS
FOG
Frequent plugs in area.
21 
Grant – 4th to 3rd
Past SSOs and frequent FOG.
22 
Yew St
23 105 Ontario
2069
449
FOG/SOLIDS
Added 2022 per Eric M.
TOTAL LF:
19,864
TOTAL LINEAR FEET IN HOT-SPOT PROGRAM = 94,350
549 of 891

--- page 550 ---
EXHIBIT 7.10H
City of San Mateo
SSMP Element 7. FOG PROGRAM
FOG Preventative Maintenance Target Areas
SEWER MAINLINES
²
IMPACTED BY FOG
SEWER MAINLINES
March 2025
Q:\pw\Field Maintenance\SEWER\SSMP\2025 SSMP Update\FOGImpactAreas_2025.mxd
550 of 891

--- page 551 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
* Priority for inspection: L = low priority; H = high priority. High priority designation of a facility means that SIUs will be inspected annually, and all other high priority facilities are inspected no less than once every 2 years as staffing levels and workloads
allow. Low priority designation of a facility means that the goal is for inspections to be conducted once every 2-3 years, but no less than once every permit cycle (5 years) as staffing levels and workloads allow.
**Note: Some facilities have more than 1 grease removal device. Most facilities with multiple grease removal devices have the same cleaning frequency requirement for all devices
***Note: TBD indicates that an inspection has not yet taken place, and this information has not yet been recorded. N/A for "tallow" columns indicates the facility does not have a fryer/use cooking oil
Restaurant Name
*Priority for Inspection
**Grease Removal Device Cleaning Frequency
Tallow bin frequency
Tallow Company
808 ZONE
L
L
H
L
L
L
H
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
H
L
L
L
L
H
H
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
H
L
L
H
L
H
L
L
L
1x EVERY YEAR
N/A
N/A
99 RANCH MARKET
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 4 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 DAYS
As needed (when full)
INTERSTATE
AKISU SUSHI BAR AND GRILL
AL CARBON
TBD
TBD
TBD
SEQUENTIAL
ALL SPICE
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
AMERICANO DELI AND GRILL
AMERICA'S HOUSE
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
DARLING INT'L
AMICI'S EAST COAST PIZZERIA
AMIGOS GRILL
2x EVERY MONTH
"
SEQUENTIAL
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
"
KB GREASE
ANDERSEN BAKERY & CAFÉ
ANTOINES COOKIE SHOP
APPLE FRITTER
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 DAYS
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
As needed (when full)
DARLING
ARMADILLO WILLY'S BARBECUE
ATRIA HILLSDALE
1x EVERY MONTH
"
DARLING
1x EVERY MONTH
"
DARLING
AVENIDA RESTAURANT
AY CARAY TAQUERIA
AYALA PRODUCE MARKET
B STREET & VINE
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
"
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
1x EVERY MONTH
N/A
N/A
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
N/A
TBD
TBD
BAGEL BOX & COFFEE
BAMBU SAN MATEO
BARFIA USA, LLC
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 4 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
BAY AREA CORPORATE CATERING
TBD
TBD
BAY WATCH RESTAURANTTAURANT
BEACH HUT DELI SAN MATEO
BEACH PARK PLAZA
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 WEEKS
As needed (when full)
DARPRO
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
BEARD PAPA'S SWEETS
BEL MATEO BOWL
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 WEEKS
N/A
N/A
TBD
TBD
BELLINI BISTRO
As needed (when full)
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SVCS
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SVCS
DARLING
BIZZA
1x EVERY TWO WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 WEEKS
"
BJ'S RESTAURANT #443
BLUE BOTTLE COFFEE
BLUE BOTTLE COFFEE
BLUE WHALE
"
N/A
N/A
1x EVERY 6 WEEKS
N/A
N/A
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
HANDLED BY MALL
SEQUENTIAL
N/A
BONCHON
"
BROOKSIDE SKILLED NURSING
BURGER KING #3323
BUSINESS PARK CAFÉ
CAFÉ 2K
N/A
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1 X EVERY QUARTER
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
As needed (when full)
ONE MORE TIME INC
DARLING
"
N/A
N/A
CAFÉ SAVINI
"
PIONEER TRANSPORT
DARLING
CALIFORNIA CATERING (ELKS LODGE)
CALIFORNIA CUISINE
CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN
CARL'S JR RESTAURANT
CELIA'S #2 MEXICAN RESTAURANT
CELIA'S MEXICAN RESTAURANT
As needed (when full)
TBD
TBD
1x EVERY MONTH
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
ONE MORE TIME INC
INTERSTATE
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
"
"
"
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
DARLING INTL
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 1 of 7
551 of 891

--- page 552 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
CENTRAL MARKET
L
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
"
PIONEER
CENTRAL PARK BISTRO
CENTURY 12
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 YEARS
1X EVERY 3 MONTHS
1 X EVERY 3 MONTHS
2x PER YEAR
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
N/A
NA
CHABAD NORTH PENINSULA
CHARLIE'S TAQUERIA
L
N/A
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
CHARM THAI EATERY
H
H
L
"
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SERVICE INC.
CHAVEZ SUPERMARKET #10
CHEESECAKE FACTORY, THE
CHEF ZHAO BISTRO
"
AMERIGUARD MAINTENANCE SERVICES
LIQUID ENVIRONMENTAL
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
PIONEER LIQUID
DARPRO SOLUTIONS
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS LLC
N/A
"
H
L
"
CHESS CORNER RETAIL CENTER
CHEUNG HING BBQ RESTAURANT
CHEZ XUE
"
L
"
L
"
CHILD NUTRITION SERVICES
CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL #1517
CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL #2028
CHUAN CHIM THAI CUISINE
CINEPOLIS LUXURY CINEMAS
CLAY OVEN CUISINE OF INDIA
COBANI GYRO & KEBAB
COOKIEZ BY SARA
L
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
ALL VALLEY ENV.
ALL VALLEY ENV.
A-1 SEPTIC TANK
INTERSTATE
L
"
L
"
L
1 X EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
2x EVERY WEEK
"
H
L
"
DARLING
"
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
N/A
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1X EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
TBD
N/A
COSTCO WHOLESALE # 147
COURTYARD BY MARRIOTT FOSTER CITY
CROWNE PLAZA HOTEL
CRUMBL - FOSTER CITY
CUBAN KITCHEN
L
As needed (when full)
DAR PRO
L
"
AMERIGAURD/DARO PRO
DARLING
H
L
"
TBD
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
CURRY UP NOW/MORTAR AND PESTLE
DAEHO KALBIJJIM & BEEF SOUP
DAIKI SUSHI
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
TBD***
TBD
L
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY TWO MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1X EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 4 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
DASH JAPANESE TAPAS & OMAKASE
DENNY'S RESTAURANT #8538
DESSERT REPUBLIC
H
L
"
GOLDEN VALLEY PUMPING
ONE MORE TIME INC
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
GOLDEN VALLEY PUMPING
N/A
"
L
"
DONUT DELITE
L
"
DOUGH ZONE DUMPLING HOUSE
DRAEGERS SUPERMARKET
DULZURA
L
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
DARLING
L
"
DARLING
DUMPLING KITCHEN
L
TBD
TBD
EJC CHESS DRIVE (2011-2019 CHESS DR)
EL PALENQUE TAQUERIA
EL RINCONCITO CATRACHO
EL SINALOENSE RESTAURANT
ESPETUS CHURRASCARIA
ETERNA PRIMAVERA
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x-2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
L
N/A
N/A
L
TBD
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
DARLING
H
H
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
2x PER YEAR
N/A
N/A
As needed (when full)
UNIVERSAL
FALAFEL TAZAH
"
SEQUENTIAL
FEN CUISINE 650 LLC.
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
FERNANDO'S RESTAURANT
FIELDWORK BREWING
FIERO CAFFE
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
1 X EVERY 3-6 MONTHS
1 x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1 x EVERY MONTH
1X EVERY 3 MONTYHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
N/A
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
GRAINERS
FIESTA LATINA MARKET
FIRE WINGS
H
L
"
"
"
"
SEQUENTIAL
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
STATE OIL COMPANY
DARLING
FISH WITH YOU
L
FIVE GUYS BURGERS & FRIES
L
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 2 of 7
552 of 891

--- page 553 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
FLETCH'S TAQUERIA
FLORES
L
1x EVERY MONTH
"
INTERSTATE
H
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 1-3 MONTHS
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
2x PER YEAR
"
SEQUENTIAL
FOREIGNER
"
SEQUENTIAL
FORTUNE STAR RESTAURANT
FRANKLIN TEMPLETON
FUJI SUKIYAKI
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
"
DAR PRO
L
"
H.P. OIL
FURAGU SUSHI
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
GAO VIET KITCHEN
"
SSF LOCATION
GOBI MONGOLIAN GRILL
GOLDEN BELL DONUTS
GOLDEN WOK BISTRO
GUADALAJARA GRILL
GYU KAKU-SAN MATEO
HAAGEN-DAZ SHOP 1299
HAMPTON INN & SUITES SAN MATEO
HAPPY LAMB HOT POT
HAPPY LEMON
L
"
TRINITY LIQUID WASTE SERVICES
L
2x EVERY YEAR
N/A
N/A
H
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
DARLING
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY YEAR
"
SEQUENTIAL/ENCORE OILS
L
N/A
N/A
L
TBD
TBD
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
2x PER YEAR
As needed (when full)
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SERVICE
L
N/A
N/A
HEIDI'S PIES
L
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
DARLING
HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER
HILTON GARDEN INN - SAN MATEO
HIMAWARI TEI
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
TBD
H
L
TBD
As needed (when full)
TRAP RECYCLERS
BUILDING PROVIDES
PIONEER
HIRO NORI CRAFT RAMEN
HOLIDAY INN, SAN MATEO
HOT WOK BISTRO
L
"
H
L
"
"
GOLDEN VALLEY PUMPING
PIONEER
HOT WOK CAFE
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
4x PER YEAR
"
HOTARU JAPANESE RESTAURANT
HUMMUS MEDITERRANEAN KITCHEN
IHOP RESTAURANT #3063
IKES PLACE
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
DAR PRO
"
L
"
L
"
DAR PRO
ILLUMINA
L
"
A-1 SEPTIC
INDIA CASH & CARRY
IZAKAYA GINJI
L
2x PER YEAR
"
SEQUENTIAL
INTERSTATE
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
IZAKAYA MAI
L
"
DARLING
JACK IN THE BOX #495
JACK'S PRIME BURGERS & SHAKES
JACKS RESTAURANT AND BAR
JEFFREY'S HAMBURGER COURT
JERSEY MIKES SUBS
JETFINITY
L
"
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
LIQUID ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS
SEQUENTIAL
TBD
L
"
L
"
H
L
"
TBD
L
TBD
TBD
JOHNNY'S FIRST TOAST
JOY SUSHI
L
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
BENTLEY BIOFUELS
SELF
H
H
H
L
EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
TBD
"
JOYS RESTAURANT
"
JUANITA CHAPINA
"
JUN YUE CHINESE RESTAURANT
KARAAGE BURGER
TBD***
TBD
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
TBD
As needed (when full)
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICE
KRAUSE & NAGY
KB GREASE
KATS VIETNAM HOUSE
KAZ TERIYAKI GRILL
KENTA RAMEN
L
"
H
H
L
"
"
SEQUENTIAL
KB GREASE
KIKI'S COFFEE SHOP
KITCHENTOWN
"
L
"
PIONEER
KIYOI - FISH WAREHOUSE
H
TBD***
TBD
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 3 of 7
553 of 891

--- page 554 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
KOBE YA
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
MALL HANDLES
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
TBD
KOKKO
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
KURO OBI BY IPPUDO
L
"
L & L HAWAIIAN BBQ
L
"
LA FONDA DE SAN MATEO, INC.
LA GUATEMALTECA MINI MARKET
LA HACIENDA MARKET
LA HUERTA MARKET #7
LA LANTERNA RESTAURANT
LA MORENITA MARKET
LA NORTENA TORTILLA FACTORY
LA PINATA MEXICATTESSEN
LAS PALOMAS TAQUERIA
LITTLE CAESAR'S PIZZA
LITTLE HUNAN RESTAURANT
LITTLE SHANGHAI
L
"
L
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
DARLING
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
N/A
L
"
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
H
L
As needed (when full)
INTERSTATE
SELF
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY WEEK
"
L
N/A
N/A
H
L
N/A
N/A
As needed (when full)
DARLING
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
PROPERTY MNG HANDLES
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
BAKER COMMODITIES
DARLING
LIUYISHOU HOTPOT, SAN MATEO
LOBSTER CHEF
H
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY WEEK
"
"
LOS MORENO TAQUERIA
LUCETI'S ON 25TH AVE
LUCKY STORES #710
L
"
L
"
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY DAY
"
MARIA'S RESTAURANT
MARINA FOOD #1
H
H
H
L
"
"
DAR PRO
MARINA PLAZA TRASH ENCLOSURE
MARINER'S POINT GOLF LINKS
MARISCOS Y TAQUERIA IXPALINO SINALOA
MARUYAMA
"
PROPERTY MNG HANDLES
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
N/A
"
L
"
L
"
MCDONALD'S #5804
L
"
MCDONALDS RESTAURANT
MEET FRESH SAN MATEO
MENDOCINO FARMS SANDWICH MARKET
MI RANCHO MARKET
H
L
"
N/A
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
2x EVERY MONTH
2x EVERY YEAR
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
N/A
L
"
MINAKO ORGANIC-ISH JAPANESE CUISINE
MOD PIZZA
L
N/A
L
N/A
N/A
MOLLIE STONE'S MARKET
MORDISKO BANH MI
H
L
As needed (when full)
SACRAMENTO COMPANY
TBD
TBD
MR. GREEN BUBBLE
L
As needed (when full)
PROPERTY MNG HANDLES
INTERSTATE
SEQUENTIAL
PIONEER LIQ TRANSP
DARLING
MR. PIZZA MAN
L
"
MUMU HOT POT
L
"
MYUNG DONG TOFU CABIN (YU & YOO INC.)
NEAL'S COFFEE SHOP
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
L
"
NEIGHBORHOOD MARKET AND CAFÉ
NEW PHO SAIGON
H
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
TBD
TBD
TBD
As needed (when full)
TBD***
SEQUENTIAL
TBD
NEW THAI ELEPHANT
L
NEW WING FAT
H
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
DARLING
NEW YORK PIZZA LLC
"
NOMA SUSHI
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
N/A
NOODLE SHOP
L
"
NORDSTROM MARKETPLACE CAFÉ
NORTH BEACH PIZZA
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
H
L
As needed (when full)
"
SEQUENTIAL
SEQUENTIAL
OCEANIC RESTAURANT
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 4 of 7
554 of 891

--- page 555 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
OX 9 LANZHOU HANDPULLED NOODLES
PACIFIC CATCH
L
1x EVERY WEEK
"
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SERVICE
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY DAY
"
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
PACIFIC DINING (CSM CAFETERIA)
PACIFIC RIM INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL
PALETTE TEA GARDEN
PANADERIA GUATEMALTECA TIKAL
PANCHO VILLA TAQUERIA
PANDA EXPRESS #1923
PANDA EXPRESS #3018
PANTRY RESTAURANT, THE
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
H
L
N/A
N/A
1x EVERY 3 WEEKS
1x EVERY 4 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
TBD
SEQUENTIAL
L
TBD
H
L
As needed (when full)
GOLDEN GATE ENVIRONMENTAL
"
DARLING
L
"
HANDLED BY MALL
H
L
"
INTERSTATE
N/A
N/A
PAR3 AT POPLAR CREEK
PATIO COFFEE SHOP #1
PAUL MARTIN'S AMERICAN GRILL
PAUSA BAR & COOKERY
PEKING ALLEY
L
As needed (when full)
TBD
DAR PRO
L
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
SRC PUMPING
L
"
KB GREASE
H
L
"
AMERIGUARD MAINTENANCE SERVICES
PENINSULA JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER
PENINSULA REGENT
PHILZ COFFEE
1x EVERY 9 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY YEAR
N/A
N/A
H
L
As needed (when full)
N/A
DAR PRO
N/A
PHO ELEMENT
H
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
CENTRAL GREASE COMPANY
PHO LITTLE SAIGON
"
SEQUENTIAL
PIAZZA'S FINE FOODS
PINSTRIPES
L
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY TWO WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
N/A
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
PIZZA MY HEART
L
N/A
PORTERHOUSE STEAK
POTATO GUYS
L
As needed (when full)
TBD
SEQUENTIAL
L
TBD
QUICKLY
L
As needed (when full)
PROPERTY MNG HANDLES
PIONEER
RAINBOW PIZZA
L
"
RAMEN DOJO
L
"
DARLING
RAMEN PARLOR
H
L
"
DARLING
RAVIOLI HOUSE
NA
N/A
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
RICKSHAW CORNER
H
H
L
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
"
CA BIO FUELS
RIN-TEI RESTAURANT
RISE WOODFIRE
1x EVERY WEEK
"
GOLDEN VALLEY PUMPING
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS
EVERGREEN
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
"
RITHA INDIAN RESTAURANT
ROAM ARTISAN BURGERS
ROBLOX STATION 1
H
L
"
"
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
SEQUENTIAL
L
"
ROBLOX STATION 2
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
ROBLOX STATION 5
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
ROMOLO'S CANNOLI
ROUND TABLE PIZZA
ROUND TABLE PIZZA
ROUND TABLE PIZZA #1000
ROUND TABLE PIZZA #880
S EL CAMINO TAQUERIA
SAFEWAY #639
L
"
KB GREASE
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
TBD
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
SACRAMENTO RENDERING COMPANY
SACRAMENTO RENDERING COMPANY
SACRAMENTO RENDERING COMPANY
SACRAMENTO RENDERING COMPANY
TBD
SAFEWAY #694
L
"
SAFEWAY #970
L
"
SAFEWAY #999
H
L
"
SAIGON CITY RESTAURANT
TBD
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 5 of 7
555 of 891

--- page 556 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
SAJJ MEDITERRANEAN
SAN MATEO CO. EVENT CENTER
SAN MATEO FOOD MALL
SAN MATEO MEDICAL CENTER
SAN MATEO PRIME
L
1x EVERY MONTH
As needed (when full)
TBD
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS
L
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY YEAR
TBD
H
L
As needed (when full)
TBD
SEQUENTIAL
TBD
L
As needed (when full)
KB GREASE
SAN MATEO SENIOR CENTER
SANDWICH MONKEY
L
N/A
N/A
N/A
H
L
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
N/A
SANTA RAMEN
As needed (when full)
DAR PRO
SARKU JAPAN
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY YEAR
"
HANDLED BY MALL
SEAPOT
L
"
DARPRO
SENIORE'S PIZZA
L
"
DARLING
SERVERS STANDING BY
SHABU WAY
L
"
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS LLC
L
N/A
N/A
SHAKE SHACK #1298
L
As needed (when full)
RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGIES
SHARED TRASH ENCLOSURE
SHARETEA
L
"
MAHONEY ENVIRONMENTAL
L
TBD***
TBD
SHENG KEE BAKERY
L
1x 2 MONTH
As needed (when full)
DARLING
SHIHLIN TAIWAN STREET SNACKS
SHIKI JAPANESE RESTAURANT
SHIKI JAPANESE RESTAURANT
SIBBY'S CUPCAKERY
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
N/A
N/A
SILVER HOUSE RESTAURANT
SILVER LAKE SEAFOOD REST
SIZZLING LUNCH
H
L
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
1x EVERY WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
L
2X PER YEAR
"
UNIVERSAL
SNACKS ANTOJITOS MEXICANOS
SOLE RISTORANTE ITALIANO
SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA
SOON'S TOFU AND KOREAN BBQ
SOUTHWEST CONCESSIONS (KELLY'S DELI)
SPICY EMPIRE
L
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
2x PER YEAR
"
SELF
L
"
MAHONEY
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
H
H
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
DARLING
"
SEQUENTIAL
STARBIRD
L
"
SEQUENTIAL
STARBUCKS
L
N/A
N/A
STARBUCKS #5336
L
N/A
N/A
STARBUCKS #5602
L
N/A
N/A
STARBUCKS #5934
L
N/A
N/A
STRATFORD, THE
L
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 1.5 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
As needed (when full)
DARLING
STREET FOOD CAFÉ (INSHOU)
SUBWAY SANDWICHES #15994
SUBWAY SANDWICHES #46400
SUBWAY SANDWICHES #52556
SUNRISE OF SAN MATEO
SUPER DUPER BURGER
SUPERSTAR DIM SUM AND SEAFOOD RESTAURANT
SURUKI SUPERMARKET
SUSHI SAM'S EDOMATA
SUSHI YOSHIZUMI
L
As needed (when full)
PIONEER
L
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
L
N/A
L
N/A
L
N/A
L
As needed (when full)
MAHONEY ENVIRONMENTAL
H
L
"
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS AND OIL COLLECTORS
"
RD RECYCLING
H
H
H
L
"
EVERGREEN
N/A
N/A
SWEET BASIL THAI HOUSE
SWEET HONEY DESSERT
SWEET MOMENT
As needed (when full)
DARLING
"
"
"
"
DAR PRO
L
SEQUENTIAL
TABLA INDIAN
H
L
SEQUENTIAL
TACO BELL #30746
LIQUID ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 6 of 7
556 of 891

--- page 557 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
Appendix 7.10.I
FSE Inspection Schedule and Other Information
TACO BELL #30758
L
L
L
L
L
H
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
H
L
H
L
L
H
L
L
L
L
L
L
H
L
H
L
L
H
L
L
H
L
H
L
H
L
L
L
L
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS (Quarterly)
"
LIQUID ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS
LIQUID ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS
DARPRO
TACO BELL #30788
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS (Quarterly)
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
TACOS AL VAPOR NUEVA ITALIA
TACOS EL GRULLENES C AND D
TAI ER SICHUAN CUISINE
TAI WU RESTAURANT
TAISHOKEN
"
"
HANDLED BY MALL
ENVIRONMENTAL LOGISTICS
SEQUENTIAL
"
"
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 6 MONTHS
1x EVERY 4 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x EVERY 2 WEEKS
1x PER WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
TAKAHASHI MARKET
TAKI NORI HANDROLL
TANNOURINE RESTAURANT
TAQUERIA EL NAYARITA
TAQUERIA LA CUMBRE
TAQUERIA LAS PENCAS 2
TAQUERIA LOS PRIMOS
TAQUERIA LOS PRIMOS #2
THE BARREL BISTRO WINE BAR
THE HABIT BURGER GRILL
THE NUEVA SCHOOL
THE REFUGE
"
DARLING
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
DARPRO
1x EVERY WEEK
TBD
TBD
TBD
1x EVERY WEEK
TBD
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 1 MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
As needed (when full)
GOLDEN VALLEY PUMPING
BAKER COMMODITIES
TRINITY LIQUID WASTE SERVICES
BAY POWERWASH
SEQUENTIAL
"
"
"
THONGLOR THAI BISTRO
TIANFU RESTAURANT
TOA YUEN RESTAURANT
TOKIE'S DOWNTOWN
TOMATINA
"
"
MAHONEY
"
DARLING
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x MONTH
"
PIONEER LIQUID TRANSPORT
AMERIGUARD
"
TOTORO RAMEN
"
SEQUENTIAL
TOWN OF DUMPLING
TRUFFLE BUTTER POKE BAR
UNCLE TETSU CHEESECAKE
URBAN MOMO
"
BAY AREA RESTAURANT SERVICES
SEQUENTIAL
"
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 2 MONTHS
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
MALL HANDLES
UNIVERSAL RESTAURANT SERVICES
N/A
"
VELO CITY BITES
N/A
VERKADA
As needed (when full)
GREASE TRAP CLEANERS LLC.
3-D OIL SERVICES
EVERGREEN
VESPUCCI RISTORANTE ITALIANO
VILLAGE HUMMUS
"
"
VINEYARD CAFÉ, THE
VISA INC
"
DARLING INT'L
"
SEQUENTIAL
WAKURIYA JAPANESE KITCHEN
WAREHOUSE BUFFET, THE
WATERFRONT PIZZA
WETZEL'S PRETZELS
TBD
TBD
As needed (when full)
VSP WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
DARLING
"
"
SEQUENTIAL
WETZEL'S PRETZELS
"
SEQUENTIAL
WHOLE FOODS MARKET
WILLIAM JAY CATERING INC/SUAVECITO BIRRIA & TACOS
WING STOP #762
"
BENTLEY BIOFUELS
SEQUENTIAL
"
"
SEQUENTIAL
WINGSTOP RESTAURANT
WURSTHALL
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
1x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
2x EVERY MONTH
1x EVERY WEEK
"
SEQUENTIAL
"
SEQUENTIAL
YAYOI
"
SEQUENTIAL
YUZU SUSHI AND GRILL
ZEN NOODLE BAR
"
INTERSTATE
TBD
TBD
ZOOX LABS, INC
1x EVERY 3 MONTHS
As needed (when full)
SEQUENTIAL
Updated 03/12/2025
Page 7 of 7
557 of 891

--- page 558 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 10 – SSMP PROGRAM
AUDITS
Appendix 10.1 – SSMP Change Log
Appendix 10.2 – SSMP Audit Blank Form
Appendix 10.3 – Recent SSMP Audit
Report
558 of 891

--- page 559 ---
This page left intentionally blank
559 of 891

--- page 560 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 10 – SSMP Program Audits
APPENDIX 10.1
SSMP Change Log
560 of 891

--- page 561 ---
This page left intentionally blank
561 of 891

--- page 562 ---
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
Environmental Services Division
APPENDIX 10
SSMP PROGRAM AUDITS
SSMP Change Log
SSMP
Element
Description of Change/Revision
Made
Change
Authorized by
Date
562 of 891

--- page 563 ---
This page left intentionally blank
563 of 891

--- page 564 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 10 – SSMP Program Audits
APPENDIX 10.2
SSMP Audit Blank Form
564 of 891

--- page 565 ---
This page left intentionally blank
565 of 891

--- page 566 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
20XX SSMP Triennial Internal Audit
Audit Period: May 2, 20XX to May 2, 20XX
This 20XX SSMP Triennial Internal Audit was prepared for submittal into the online CIWQS Sanitary
Sewer System Database per the requirements in section 3.10 of Attachment E1 of State Water Resources
Control Board Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ (“Statewide WDR”). The City’s sewer system operators’
input has been considered in compiling the audit findings below.
This purpose of this audit is as follows:
•
Evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of the City’s Sewer System Management Plan in
preventing spills;
•
•
Evaluate the City’s compliance with the Statewide WDR;
Identify Sewer System Management Plan deficiencies in addressing ongoing spills and
discharges to waters of the State; and
•
Identify necessary modifications to the Sewer System Management Plan to correct deficiencies.
This report includes audit findings and recommended corrective actions and a proposed schedule for the
City to address the identified deficiencies.
Each of the SSMP Elements and Sub-elements below have been graded using the following sufficiency
ranking system. Written descriptions to explain rankings of SC, PC, MC, and/or DNC are added at the
bottom of each Element.
•
•
•
•
•
Complies (C) – complies with all WDR objectives
Substantially Complies (SC) – complies mostly with all WDR objectives
Partially Complies (PC) – complies with basic WDR objectives
Marginal Compliance (MC) – complies minimally with basic objectives of the WDR
Does Not Comply (DNC) – does not comply with WDR objectives
566 of 891

--- page 567 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 2
Element I – Sewer System Management Plan Goal and Introduction
Rating
A.
Does the Element include a narrative introduction section that discusses (1)
regulatory context, (2) SSMP update schedule, (3) sewer system asset overview?
a. General description of program, implementation, and updates
b. Schedule for SSMP updates and audits
c. Asset overview including location, service area boundary and reference to
sewer system maps, population and community served, system size, structures
diverting stormwater to the sewer system, data management systems, sewer
system ownership and operation responsibilities between the City and private
entities for upper and lower sewer laterals, estimated number or percent of
residential, commercial, and industrial service connections, and unique service
boundary conditions and challenge(s).
B.
Are the City’s goals consistent with the following Statewide WDR goals:
a. Properly manage, operate, and maintain all parts of the City’s sanitary sewer
system(s);
b. Reduce and prevent spills; and
c. Contain and mitigate spills that do occur.
Discussion:
•
2
567 of 891

--- page 568 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 3
Element II – Organization
Rating
A.
Are City LRO and data submitters stated in the SSMP currently identified in
CIWQS? Have they been properly designated by the City?
B.
Does the SSMP include names, contact information (titles, telephone numbers,
email) for management, administrative and maintenance positions responsible for
specific Elements of the SSMP?
C.
D.
Are the organizational lines of authority current and up-to-date on the City
Organization chart?
Is the chain of communications for spill reporting complete from complaint through
final approval of all spill event reporting?
Discussion:
3
568 of 891

--- page 569 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 4
Element III – Legal Authority
Rating
A.
B.
C.
Does the Element include an electronic link to City sewer system use ordinances,
service agreements or other legally binding requirements?
Have the sewer system use ordinances been changed or modified recently? If so, are
the changes identified in the SSMP Change Log?
Does the Element include the following specific legal authorities:
a. Prevent illicit discharges to the sewer system?
b. Procedures for collaboration with storm sewer agencies for access during
spill responses?
c. Assure proper design and construction of connections to sewer system
assets?
d. Proper access agreements and easement to assure for maintenance, repair s
and replacement of sewer laterals owned or operated by the City?
e. Easement accessibility agreements for sewer system O&M, as applicable?
f. Proper enforcement authorities for violations of sewer program legal
requirements?
g. Has the City conducted enforcement activities during the audit period? If so,
please list the action.
Discussion:
4
569 of 891

--- page 570 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 5
Element IV – Operations and Maintenance Program
Rating
A.
Does the City have an updated sewer system map and procedures for updating and
submitting the map? Does the map include gravity line segments and manholes,
pumping facilities, pressure pipes and valves, and applicable stormwater
conveyance facilities within the sewer system service area boundaries?
B.
C.
Is the service area boundary map current? Will it be uploaded to CIWQS prior to
12/31/25?
Does the City have a scheduling system and a data collection system for
preventive operation and maintenance activities? The scheduling system must
include: Inspection and maintenance activities; higher-frequency inspections and
maintenance of known problem areas, including areas with tree root problems;
regular visual and closed-circuit television (CCTV) inspections of manholes and
sewer pipes.
D.
E.
Does the City’s data include information on system areas/components prone to
root-intrusion potentially resulting in system backup and/or failure.
Is in-house and external training provided on a regular basis for sanitary sewer
system operations and maintenance staff and contractors? The training must cover:
The requirements of the Statewide WDR; Spill Emergency Response Plan
procedures and practice drills; spill volume estimation; and electronic CIWQS
reporting procedures data submitters.
F.
Does the City maintain an inventory of sewer system equipment, including the
identification of critical replacement and spare parts.
Discussion:
5
570 of 891

--- page 571 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 6
Element V – Design and Performance Provisions
Rating
A.
Does the City’s design criteria and construction standards and specifications
address the construction, installation, repair, rehabilitation, and hydraulic capacity
needs for existing and proposed system infrastructure components, including but
not limited to pipelines, pump stations, and other system appurtenances?
B.
Does the City have procedures and standards for inspection and testing of newly
constructed, newly installed, repaired, and rehabilitated system pipelines, pumps,
and other equipment and appurtenances?
Discussion:
6
571 of 891

--- page 572 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 7
Element VI – Spill Emergency Response Plan
Rating
A.
Does the City have a spill emergency response plan that describes procedures to
reduce spill volumes and collect information for prevention of future spills? Does
the plan include procedures for the following:
a. Address emergency system operations, traffic control and other necessary
response activities;
b. Contain a spill and prevent/minimize discharge to waters of the State or any
drainage conveyance system;
c. Minimize and remediate public health impacts and adverse impacts on
beneficial uses of waters of the State;
d. Remove sewage from the drainage conveyance system;
e. Clean the spill area and drainage conveyance system in a manner that does not
inadvertently impact beneficial uses in the receiving waters;
f. Implement technologies, practices, equipment, and interagency coordination to
expedite spill containment and recovery;
g. Conduct post-spill assessments of spill response activities;
h. Annually, review and assess effectiveness of the Spill Emergency Response
Plan and update the Plan as needed.
B.
C.
Does the SERP include procedures for notification to primary responders,
appropriate local officials, and appropriate regulatory agencies of a spill in a
timely manner? Do the SERP procedures comply with the documentation,
notification, monitoring and reporting requirements of the Statewide WDR?
Note that all spill notification and reporting requirements meet during the audit
period. No changes in the SERP or spill procedures were required as a result of
post-spill assessments.
Does the SERP include procedures for notification to other potentially affected
entities (health agencies, water suppliers, etc.) of spills that potentially affect
public health or reach waters of the State?
Does the SERP require appropriate staff and contractors who implement the Spill
Emergency to be appropriately trained?
D.
E.
F.
Has the City implemented pre-planned coordination and collaboration with storm
drain and other utility agencies? Is the coordination documented?
Did the City prepare and submit to CIWQS spill event technical reports within the
required timeline?
Discussion:
7
572 of 891

--- page 573 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 8
Element VII – Sewer Pipe Blockage Control Program
Rating
Does the City’s SSMP include procedures for the evaluation of whether a sewer
pipe blockage control program is needed to control fats, oils, grease, rags and
debris. The procedures should include:
A.
•
An implementation plan and schedule for a public education and outreach
program that promotes proper disposal of pipe-blocking substances;
•
A plan and schedule for the disposal of pipe-blocking substances
generated within the sanitary sewer system service area.
Do the City’s procedures include:
•
The legal authority to prohibit discharges to the system and identify
measures to prevent spills and blockages;
•
Requirements to install grease removal devices (such as traps or
interceptors), design standards for the removal devices, maintenance
requirements, best management practices requirements, recordkeeping and
reporting requirements;
•
•
•
Authority to inspect grease producing facilities, enforcement authorities,
and whether the Enrollee has sufficient staff to inspect and enforce the
fats, oils, and grease ordinance;
B.
An identification of sanitary sewer system sections subject to fats, oils,
and grease blockages and establishment of a cleaning schedule for each
section; and
Implementation of source control measures for all sources of fats, oils, and
grease reaching the sanitary sewer system for each section identified
above.
Does the City have a comprehensive public outreach and education program
including schedule for activities?
C.
D.
Does the City have a plan and schedule for disposal of pipe blockage substances?
Discussion:
8
573 of 891

--- page 574 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 9
Element VIII – System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance and Capital Improvements
Rating
A.
Does the City’s SSMP include procedures and activities for:
•
•
•
•
Routine evaluation and assessment of system conditions;
Capacity assessment and design criteria;
Prioritization of corrective actions; and
A capital improvement plan.
B.
Does the SSMP include procedures and/or discuss completed tools that identify
system components with hydraulic deficiency and/or limited capacity, considering:
•
•
Dry-weather peak flow conditions that cause or contributes to spill events;
The appropriate design storm(s) or wet weather events that causes or
contributes to spill events;
•
•
The capacity of key system components; and
Major sources that contribute to the peak flows associated with sewer
spills.
C.
Does the SSMP include procedures to:
•
•
•
Evaluate the sanitary sewer system assets utilizing the best practices and
technologies available;
Identify and justify the amount (percentage) of its system for its condition
to be assessed each year;
Prioritize the condition assessment of system areas that:
o
o
o
Hold a high level of environmental consequences if vulnerable to
collapse, failure, blockage, capacity issues, or other system
deficiencies;
Are located in or within the vicinity of surface waters, steep
terrain, high groundwater elevations, and environmentally sensitive
areas;
Are within the vicinity of a receiving water with a bacterial-related
impairment on the most current Clean Water Act section 303(d)
List;
o
o
Assess the system conditions using visual observations, video
surveillance and/or other comparable system inspection methods;
Utilize observations/evidence of system conditions that may
contribute to exiting of sewage from the system which can
reasonably be expected to discharge into a water of the State;
o
o
Maintain documents and recordkeeping of system evaluation and
condition assessment inspections and activities; and
Identify system assets vulnerable to direct and indirect impacts of
climate change, including but not limited to: sea level rise;
flooding and/or erosion due to increased storm volumes, frequency,
and/or intensity; wildfires; and increased power disruptions.
D.
Does the capacity assessment use data from existing system condition assessments,
system inspections, system audits, spill history, and other available information?
9
574 of 891

--- page 575 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 10
E.
Does the analysis consider the capacity of systems with regard to the following:
•
•
•
Flood-prone systems subject to increased infiltration and inflow, under
normal local and regional storm condition;
Increased infiltration and inflow due to larger and/or higher-intensity storm
events as a result of climate change;
Increases of erosive forces in canyons and streams near underground and
aboveground system components due to larger and/or higher-intensity
storm events;
•
•
Capacity of major system elements to accommodate dry weather peak flow
conditions, and updated design storm and wet weather events; and
Necessary redundancy in pumping and storage capacities.
F.
Are the capital recommendations prioritized to consider the severity of the
consequences of potential spills?
G.
Does the capital improvement plan include the following items:
•
Project schedules including completion dates for all portions of the capital
improvement program;
•
•
Internal and external project funding sources for each project;
Joint coordination between operation and maintenance staff, and
engineering staff/consultants during planning, design, and construction of
capital improvement projects; and
•
Interagency coordination with other impacted utility agencies.
Discussion:
10
575 of 891

--- page 576 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 11
Element IX – Monitoring, Measurement and Program Modifications
Rating
A.
Does the SSMP include an Adaptive Management section that addresses Plan
implementation effectiveness and the steps for necessary Plan improvement,
including:
•
•
•
Maintaining relevant information, including audit findings, to establish
and prioritize appropriate SSMP activities;
Monitoring the implementation and measuring the effectiveness of each
Plan Element;
Assessing the success of the preventive operation and maintenance
activities through tracking and reporting of selected performance
indicators;
•
•
Updating Plan procedures and activities, as appropriate, based on results
of monitoring and performance evaluations; and
Identifying and illustrating spill trends, including spill frequency,
locations and estimated volumes.
B.
C.
Has the City identified and illustrated spill trends, including frequencies, locations
and estimated volumes, maintenance performance results and other effectiveness
indicators?
Have the performance trends resulted in modifications or changes to SSMP
elements and are the changes identified in the Change Log?
Discussion:
11
576 of 891

--- page 577 ---
City of San Mateo
20XX SSMP Audit
Page 12
Element X – Internal Audit
Rating
Does the SSMP include internal audit procedures that are sufficient for the City to
A.
comply with section 5.4 (Sewer System Management Plan Audits) of the Statewide
WDR?
B.
C.
Does the Audit Report include operational personnel participation?
Does the Audit describe SSMP effectiveness evaluated for spill impacts and
include corrective actions and timelines?
Discussion:
X.A. The current SSMP includes audit requirements and timelines that were established in the prior WDR.
The audit requirements from the Statewide WDR will be incorporated into this element by December
15, 2024. Note that although the section itself has not been updated, this SSMP is being audited in
accordance with the timelines established in the Statewide WDR.
Element XI – Communications
Rating
Does the SSMP include procedures for the City to communicate with the public
for:
•
•
•
Spills and discharges resulting in closures of public areas, or that enter a
source of drinking water;
A.
The development, implementation, and update of the SSMP, including
opportunities for public input to Plan implementation and updates;
Coordination with owners/operators of systems that connect into the
City’s system, including satellite systems, for system operation,
maintenance, and capital improvement-related activities.
Discussion:
12
577 of 891

--- page 578 ---
SSMP
ELEMENT 10 – SSMP Program Audits
APPENDIX 10.3
Recent SSMP Audit Report
578 of 891

--- page 579 ---
This page left intentionally blank
579 of 891

--- page 580 ---
City of San Mateo
Sewer System Management Plan
2024 SSMP Triennial Internal Audit
Audit Period: May 2, 2021 to May 2, 2024
This 2024 SSMP Triennial Internal Audit was prepared for submittal into the online CIWQS Sanitary
Sewer System Database per the requirements in section 3.10 of Attachment E1 of State Water Resources
Control Board Order WQ 2022-0103-DWQ (“Statewide WDR”). The City’s sewer system operators’
input has been considered in compiling the audit findings below.
This purpose of this audit is as follows:
•
Evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of the City’s Sewer System Management Plan in
preventing spills;
•
•
Evaluate the City’s compliance with the Statewide WDR;
Identify Sewer System Management Plan deficiencies in addressing ongoing spills and
discharges to waters of the State; and
•
Identify necessary modifications to the Sewer System Management Plan to correct deficiencies.
This report includes audit findings and recommended corrective actions and a proposed schedule for the
City to address the identified deficiencies.
Each of the SSMP Elements and Sub-elements below have been graded using the following sufficiency
ranking system. Written descriptions to explain rankings of SC, PC, MC, and/or DNC are added at the
bottom of each Element.
•
•
•
•
•
Complies (C) – complies with all WDR objectives
Substantially Complies (SC) – complies mostly with all WDR objectives
Partially Complies (PC) – complies with basic WDR objectives
Marginal Compliance (MC) – complies minimally with basic objectives of the WDR
Does Not Comply (DNC) – does not comply with WDR objectives
580 of 891

--- page 581 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 2
Element I – Sewer System Management Plan Goal and Introduction
Rating
A.
Does the Element include a narrative introduction section that discusses (1)
regulatory context, (2) SSMP update schedule, (3) sewer system asset overview?
a. General description of program, implementation, and updates
b. Schedule for SSMP updates and audits
c. Asset overview including location, service area boundary and reference to
sewer system maps, population and community served, system size, structures
diverting stormwater to the sewer system, data management systems, sewer
system ownership and operation responsibilities between the City and private
entities for upper and lower sewer laterals, estimated number or percent of
residential, commercial, and industrial service connections, and unique service
boundary conditions and challenge(s).
DNC
B.
Are the City’s goals consistent with the following Statewide WDR goals:
a. Properly manage, operate, and maintain all parts of the City’s sanitary sewer
system(s);
C
b. Reduce and prevent spills; and
c. Contain and mitigate spills that do occur.
Discussion:
•
The City’s SSMP begins with (prior WDR) Element 1, Goals. The updated SSMP, to be
completed by May 2, 2025, will include a new Element 1 – SSMP Goal and Introduction – that
includes all of the information listed in A.a, A.b, and A.c, above.
•
Completion of this new section is not expressly required to improve the effectiveness of the
SSMP in preventing spills, as this section is a summary and introductory section only.
2
581 of 891

--- page 582 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 3
Element II – Organization
Rating
A.
Are City LRO and data submitters stated in the SSMP currently identified in
CIWQS? Have they been properly designated by the City?
DNC
B.
Does the SSMP include names, contact information (titles, telephone numbers,
email) for management, administrative and maintenance positions responsible for
specific Elements of the SSMP?
SC
C.
D.
Are the organizational lines of authority current and up-to-date on the City
Organization chart?
SC
SC
Is the chain of communications for spill reporting complete from complaint through
final approval of all spill event reporting?
Discussion:
II.A. The LRO and data submitters are not specifically identified in the SSMP. However, staff has reviewed
and confirmed the LRO and data submitters listed in CIWQS.
II.B. The SSMP is missing email addresses. The remaining information (titles, telephone numbers) is
included in the SSMP.
II.C, D. The City has reorganized and no longer has an Environmental Services Section. This organization
chart and references will be removed from the SSMP.
The items that require updating in II.A, II.B, and II.C, above will be completed by December 15, 2024.
These administrative changes to contact information and organization names will be updated for
recordkeeping purposes. The information does not result in any changes to spill response, which continues
to be implemented in compliance with the Statewide WDR.
3
582 of 891

--- page 583 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 4
Element III – Legal Authority
Rating
A.
B.
C.
Does the Element include an electronic link to City sewer system use ordinances,
service agreements or other legally binding requirements?
C
Have the sewer system use ordinances been changed or modified recently? If so, are
the changes identified in the SSMP Change Log?
C
Does the Element include the following specific legal authorities:
a. Prevent illicit discharges to the sewer system?
b. Procedures for collaboration with storm sewer agencies for access during
spill responses?
c. Assure proper design and construction of connections to sewer system
assets?
d. Proper access agreements and easement to assure for maintenance, repair s
and replacement of sewer laterals owned or operated by the City?
SC
e. Easement accessibility agreements for sewer system O&M, as applicable?
f. Proper enforcement authorities for violations of sewer program legal
requirements?
g. Has the City conducted enforcement activities during the audit period? If so,
please list the action.
Discussion:
III.B. There have been no changes to the City’s Ordinances that should be reflected in the SSMP.
III.C. The SSMP includes all legal authorities listed. As related to III.C.b - Collaboration with storm sewer
agencies for access during spill responses, the City manages storm sewers. The SSMP will make this
clarification that sewer and stormwater functions will coordinate efforts during sewer spills. Note that III.C.d
does not apply, as the City does not own or operate any portion of the private sewer lateral. Finally, the City
has not conducted enforcement activities during the audit period.
The City will update the SSMP language to clarify III.C.b – Collaboration between the City’s storm sewer
functions for access during spill response. The changes will be included in the May 2, 2025 SSMP update.
4
583 of 891

--- page 584 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 5
Element IV – Operations and Maintenance Program
Rating
A.
Does the City have an updated sewer system map and procedures for updating and
submitting the map? Does the map include gravity line segments and manholes,
pumping facilities, pressure pipes and valves, and applicable stormwater
conveyance facilities within the sewer system service area boundaries?
C
B.
C.
Is the service area boundary map current? Will it be uploaded to CIWQS prior to
12/31/25?
C
C
Does the City have a scheduling system and a data collection system for
preventive operation and maintenance activities? The scheduling system must
include: Inspection and maintenance activities; higher-frequency inspections and
maintenance of known problem areas, including areas with tree root problems;
regular visual and closed-circuit television (CCTV) inspections of manholes and
sewer pipes.
D.
E.
Does the City’s data include information on system areas/components prone to
root-intrusion potentially resulting in system backup and/or failure.
PC
C
Is in-house and external training provided on a regular basis for sanitary sewer
system operations and maintenance staff and contractors? The training must cover:
The requirements of the Statewide WDR; Spill Emergency Response Plan
procedures and practice drills; spill volume estimation; and electronic CIWQS
reporting procedures data submitters.
F.
Does the City maintain an inventory of sewer system equipment, including the
identification of critical replacement and spare parts.
C
Discussion:
IV.C. During the audit period, the City complied with the established schedules for gravity sewer
inspection and maintenance activities. The City did not find deficiencies in or cause to modify the
maintenance program during the audit period as a result of post spill assessment evaluations.
IV.D. The City records roots identified through CCTV inspection. However, an analysis of whether these
roots are related to system backup or failure has not been completed. This analysis will be completed and
documented in the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update. Also see Element 7, Pipe Blockage Control Plan.
The City’s Operations and Maintenance Program is in compliance with the Statewide WDR as discussed
above. The program has been effective in helping the City to meet established goals related to cleaning,
inspection, operations, and maintenance. Effectiveness of the program is measured by a reduction in sewer
spills as discussed in Section 9, Monitoring, Measurement, and Modifications.
5
584 of 891

--- page 585 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 6
Element V – Design and Performance Provisions
Rating
A.
Does the City’s design criteria and construction standards and specifications
address the construction, installation, repair, rehabilitation, and hydraulic capacity
needs for existing and proposed system infrastructure components, including but
not limited to pipelines, pump stations, and other system appurtenances?
C
B.
Does the City have procedures and standards for inspection and testing of newly
constructed, newly installed, repaired, and rehabilitated system pipelines, pumps,
and other equipment and appurtenances?
C
Discussion:
V.A. The City has adopted the most current Public Works “Green Book” as its design standard for sewer
pipelines. Design criteria for specific pump stations and pressurized pipes are not included in the Green
Book and are established on a facility-by-facility basis by the respective design engineer for that project.
Further, hydraulic capacity needs are discussed in Element 8, Capacity Assurance. Pump station and
hydraulic capacity needs from Element 8 will be restated in Element V, as needed to meet the requirements
of the Statewide WDR. Updates will be completed as part of the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update.
6
585 of 891

--- page 586 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 7
Element VI – Spill Emergency Response Plan
Rating
A.
Does the City have a spill emergency response plan that describes procedures to
reduce spill volumes and collect information for prevention of future spills? Does
the plan include procedures for the following:
a. Address emergency system operations, traffic control and other necessary
response activities;
b. Contain a spill and prevent/minimize discharge to waters of the State or any
drainage conveyance system;
c. Minimize and remediate public health impacts and adverse impacts on
beneficial uses of waters of the State;
C
d. Remove sewage from the drainage conveyance system;
e. Clean the spill area and drainage conveyance system in a manner that does not
inadvertently impact beneficial uses in the receiving waters;
f. Implement technologies, practices, equipment, and interagency coordination to
expedite spill containment and recovery;
g. Conduct post-spill assessments of spill response activities;
h. Annually, review and assess effectiveness of the Spill Emergency Response
Plan and update the Plan as needed.
B.
C.
Does the SERP include procedures for notification to primary responders,
appropriate local officials, and appropriate regulatory agencies of a spill in a
timely manner? Do the SERP procedures comply with the documentation,
notification, monitoring and reporting requirements of the Statewide WDR?
C
Note that all spill notification and reporting requirements meet during the audit
period. No changes in the SERP or spill procedures were required as a result of
post-spill assessments.
Does the SERP include procedures for notification to other potentially affected
entities (health agencies, water suppliers, etc.) of spills that potentially affect
public health or reach waters of the State?
SC
Does the SERP require appropriate staff and contractors who implement the Spill
Emergency to be appropriately trained?
D.
E.
F.
C
C
C
Has the City implemented pre-planned coordination and collaboration with storm
drain and other utility agencies? Is the coordination documented?
Did the City prepare and submit to CIWQS spill event technical reports within the
required timeline?
7
586 of 891

--- page 587 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 8
Discussion:
VI.6.C. The City’s water source would not be directly impacted by a sewer spill. Therefore, the SERP does
not include special notifications to water agencies, etc. in the event of a spill to waters of the State.
However, City staff will discuss whether other supplemental notifications are required, and will include
any updated information in the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update.
VI.6.D. Training is provided to City staff. Contractors are not used during spill response, operations, or
maintenance activities. As related to construction contractors, the City includes contract language
referencing the Statewide WDR, and holds the contractor responsible for prevention, management, and
proper response and reporting of spills.
VI.6.E. The City manages both sewer and stormwater functions, and these staff coordinate during spill
response. See Element 3.
The City has reduced the risk of sewage spills by reducing the impact and probability of spills, as
documented through the City’s spill record. See Element 9.
The City’s SERP was updated in May 2023 as required by the Statewide WDR. This SERP is effective in
maintaining compliance with the spill response and reporting requirements of the Statewide WDR. No
deficiencies or necessary modifications have been identified through this audit.
8
587 of 891

--- page 588 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 9
Element VII – Sewer Pipe Blockage Control Program
Rating
Does the City’s SSMP include procedures for the evaluation of whether a sewer
pipe blockage control program is needed to control fats, oils, grease, rags and
debris. The procedures should include:
A.
•
An implementation plan and schedule for a public education and outreach
program that promotes proper disposal of pipe-blocking substances;
DNC
•
A plan and schedule for the disposal of pipe-blocking substances
generated within the sanitary sewer system service area.
Do the City’s procedures include:
•
The legal authority to prohibit discharges to the system and identify
measures to prevent spills and blockages;
•
Requirements to install grease removal devices (such as traps or
interceptors), design standards for the removal devices, maintenance
requirements, best management practices requirements, recordkeeping and
reporting requirements;
•
•
•
Authority to inspect grease producing facilities, enforcement authorities,
and whether the Enrollee has sufficient staff to inspect and enforce the
fats, oils, and grease ordinance;
B.
C
An identification of sanitary sewer system sections subject to fats, oils,
and grease blockages and establishment of a cleaning schedule for each
section; and
Implementation of source control measures for all sources of fats, oils, and
grease reaching the sanitary sewer system for each section identified
above.
Does the City have a comprehensive public outreach and education program
including schedule for activities?
C.
D.
SC
C
Does the City have a plan and schedule for disposal of pipe blockage substances?
Discussion:
VII.A. The City has an established maintenance procedures to address fats, oils, grease, roots, and debris
within the gravity sewer system. However, this section as related to other materials besides fats, oils, and
grease is new in the Statewide WDR. As a result, the City has not evaluated whether a formal sewer
blockage control program that extends beyond fats, oils, and grease is required. City staff will develop and
implement an evaluation process. If a sewer blockage program is required, the program will be
documented in the May 2, 2025 SSMP update. If this program is not required, the May 2, 2025 update
will explain why such a program is not required.
VII.C. The City has a public outreach and education program for fats, oils, and grease. If a similar program
is required for roots and debris, as determined through the evaluation described in VII.A., this program will
be added to the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update.
9
588 of 891

--- page 589 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 10
Element VIII – System Evaluation, Capacity Assurance and Capital Improvements
Rating
A.
Does the City’s SSMP include procedures and activities for:
•
•
•
•
Routine evaluation and assessment of system conditions;
Capacity assessment and design criteria;
Prioritization of corrective actions; and
A capital improvement plan.
C
B.
Does the SSMP include procedures and/or discuss completed tools that identify
system components with hydraulic deficiency and/or limited capacity, considering:
•
•
Dry-weather peak flow conditions that cause or contributes to spill events;
The appropriate design storm(s) or wet weather events that causes or
contributes to spill events;
C
•
•
The capacity of key system components; and
Major sources that contribute to the peak flows associated with sewer
spills.
C.
Does the SSMP include procedures to:
•
•
•
Evaluate the sanitary sewer system assets utilizing the best practices and
technologies available;
Identify and justify the amount (percentage) of its system for its condition
to be assessed each year;
Prioritize the condition assessment of system areas that:
o
o
o
Hold a high level of environmental consequences if vulnerable to
collapse, failure, blockage, capacity issues, or other system
deficiencies;
Are located in or within the vicinity of surface waters, steep
terrain, high groundwater elevations, and environmentally sensitive
areas;
Are within the vicinity of a receiving water with a bacterial-related
impairment on the most current Clean Water Act section 303(d)
List;
SC
o
o
Assess the system conditions using visual observations, video
surveillance and/or other comparable system inspection methods;
Utilize observations/evidence of system conditions that may
contribute to exiting of sewage from the system which can
reasonably be expected to discharge into a water of the State;
o
o
Maintain documents and recordkeeping of system evaluation and
condition assessment inspections and activities; and
Identify system assets vulnerable to direct and indirect impacts of
climate change, including but not limited to: sea level rise;
flooding and/or erosion due to increased storm volumes, frequency,
and/or intensity; wildfires; and increased power disruptions.
D.
Does the capacity assessment use data from existing system condition assessments,
system inspections, system audits, spill history, and other available information?
C
10
589 of 891

--- page 590 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 11
E.
Does the analysis consider the capacity of systems with regard to the following:
•
•
•
Flood-prone systems subject to increased infiltration and inflow, under
normal local and regional storm condition;
Increased infiltration and inflow due to larger and/or higher-intensity storm
events as a result of climate change;
PC
Increases of erosive forces in canyons and streams near underground and
aboveground system components due to larger and/or higher-intensity
storm events;
•
•
Capacity of major system elements to accommodate dry weather peak flow
conditions, and updated design storm and wet weather events; and
Necessary redundancy in pumping and storage capacities.
F.
Are the capital recommendations prioritized to consider the severity of the
consequences of potential spills?
C
C
G.
Does the capital improvement plan include the following items:
•
Project schedules including completion dates for all portions of the capital
improvement program;
•
•
Internal and external project funding sources for each project;
Joint coordination between operation and maintenance staff, and
engineering staff/consultants during planning, design, and construction of
capital improvement projects; and
•
Interagency coordination with other impacted utility agencies.
Discussion:
VIII.A. Element 8 covers capacity-related assessments. The condition-related assessment described in the
Statewide WDR are currently discussed in Element 4. Relevant sections will be added to or referenced
in Element 8 in the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update.
VIII.C and VIII.E. These sections include new requirements of the Statewide WDR. City staff are
developing the approach to address all items discussed in Element VIII.C that are not already discussed
in the current SSMP. In particular, the May 2, 2025 SSMP update will describe the following topics as
they relate to the capacity assessment: Pipes located within the vicinity of surface waters, steep terrain,
high groundwater elevations, and environmentally sensitive areas; within the vicinity of a receiving
water with a bacterial-related impairment on the most current Clean Water Act section 303(d) List;
vulnerable to direct and indirect impacts of climate change, including but not limited to: sea level rise;
flooding and/or erosion due to increased storm volumes, frequency, and/or intensity; wildfires; and
increased power disruptions. All other topics are included in the current SSMP.
This element describes analyses and capital improvement program components that have been
instrumental in reducing the number of sewer spill and improving City’s compliance with the Statewide
WDR. The section will be updated to be compliant with the new requirements of the Statewide WDR by
the required SSMP update deadline of May 2, 2025.
11
590 of 891

--- page 591 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 12
Element IX – Monitoring, Measurement and Program Modifications
Rating
A.
Does the SSMP include an Adaptive Management section that addresses Plan
implementation effectiveness and the steps for necessary Plan improvement,
including:
•
•
•
Maintaining relevant information, including audit findings, to establish
and prioritize appropriate SSMP activities;
Monitoring the implementation and measuring the effectiveness of each
Plan Element;
SC
Assessing the success of the preventive operation and maintenance
activities through tracking and reporting of selected performance
indicators;
•
•
Updating Plan procedures and activities, as appropriate, based on results
of monitoring and performance evaluations; and
Identifying and illustrating spill trends, including spill frequency,
locations and estimated volumes.
B.
C.
Has the City identified and illustrated spill trends, including frequencies, locations
and estimated volumes, maintenance performance results and other effectiveness
indicators?
C
C
Have the performance trends resulted in modifications or changes to SSMP
elements and are the changes identified in the Change Log?
Discussion:
IX.A. The current SSMP includes the assessments described, but does not include them in one section, in
Element IX, called Adaptive Management. This information will be consolidated into an Adaptive
Management section in the May 2, 2025 SSMP Update. Specifically, Element 10 contains audit findings;
prior audits stored in Element 10 have reviewed each plan element for its effectiveness and individual
elements have been updated over time in response to these findings. Element 9 has tracked selected
performance indicators and provided findings related to these indicators, including summarizing and
tracking spill frequency, locations, and estimated volumes.
See the attached charts for updated performance indicators findings for the three-year audit period ending
May 2, 2024.
The performance indicators confirm the effectiveness of the City’s Sewer System Management Plan in
preventing spills in compliance with the Statewide WDR. Based on the information in this audit as
confirmed through performance indicators, there are no deficiencies or modifications recommended in the
SSMP, other than the administrative updates that are discussed in this audit.
12
591 of 891

--- page 592 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 13
Element X – Internal Audit
Rating
Does the SSMP include internal audit procedures that are sufficient for the City to
A.
comply with section 5.4 (Sewer System Management Plan Audits) of the Statewide
WDR?
SC
B.
C.
Does the Audit Report include operational personnel participation?
C
C
Does the Audit describe SSMP effectiveness evaluated for spill impacts and
include corrective actions and timelines?
Discussion:
X.A. The current SSMP includes audit requirements and timelines that were established in the prior WDR.
The audit requirements from the Statewide WDR will be incorporated into this element by December
15, 2024. Note that although the section itself has not been updated, this SSMP is being audited in
accordance with the timelines established in the Statewide WDR.
Element XI – Communications
Rating
Does the SSMP include procedures for the City to communicate with the public
for:
•
•
•
Spills and discharges resulting in closures of public areas, or that enter a
source of drinking water;
A.
SC
The development, implementation, and update of the SSMP, including
opportunities for public input to Plan implementation and updates;
Coordination with owners/operators of systems that connect into the
City’s system, including satellite systems, for system operation,
maintenance, and capital improvement-related activities.
Discussion:
XI.A The SSMP discusses the City’s outreach processes and tools for a variety of topics, including spills,
community information, and fats, oils, and grease management. The City discusses sewer-related topics,
including topics related to SSMP development (up to and including adoption of SSMP updates) at its
regularly-scheduled City Council meetings. These meetings are publicly noticed and open to the public.
Although public discussions are held, the SSMP does not include confirmation that the SSMP is discussed
at these meetings. Element XI will be updated to include this clarification as part of the May 2, 2025
SSMP Update.
13
592 of 891

--- page 593 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 14
Recommended Actions and Timelines
Element 1. Add a new narrative introduction section that discusses (1)
regulatory context, (2) SSMP update schedule, (3) sewer system asset
overview?
May 2, 2025
Element 2. Identify LRO and data submitters by name and position in the
SSMP (to be consistent with information in CIWQS). Add email addresses to
contact information. Remove Environmental Services Section organization
chart.
December 15, 2024
Element 3. Update the SSMP language to clarify that there is collaboration
between the City’s storm sewer functions for access during spill response.
May 2, 2025
May 2, 2025
Element 4. Complete an analysis of whether roots found in the City’s gravity
sewer pipelines are related to system backups or failures. If there is a
correlation, develop a plan to address these specific areas through the O&M
program.
Element 5. Pump station and hydraulic capacity needs from Element 8 will be
restated in Element V, as needed to meet the requirements of the Statewide
WDR.
May 2, 2025
Element 6. No updates are required
Element 7. The City will evaluate whether a program to address materials in
additional to fats, oils, and grease is required and include in the updated SSMP
or explain why such a program is not required. The City will expand its
outreach program to include materials related to disposable wipes.
May 2, 2025
May 2, 2025
Element 8. The City will add/reference relevant sections from Element 4 related
to condition-related assessments in Element 8.
The City will discuss the approach to address the following items in the
capacity assessment: pipes located within the vicinity of surface waters, steep
terrain, high groundwater elevations, and environmentally sensitive areas;
within the vicinity of a receiving water with a bacterial-related impairment on
the most current Clean Water Act section 303(d) List; vulnerable to direct and
indirect impacts of climate change, including but not limited to: sea level rise;
flooding and/or erosion due to increased storm volumes, frequency, and/or
intensity; wildfires; and increased power disruptions.
Element 9. The City will consolidate a number of discussions in the various
SSMP sections into one section titled, “Adaptive Management.” This
information will include a combination of Element 9 summarizing and tracking
data and Element 10 audit findings.
May 2, 2025
Element 10. Update the discussion of audit schedules to reflect the new 3-year
audit requirement of the Statewide WDR.
May 2, 2025
May 2, 2025
Element 11. Add confirming language stating that the City discusses sewer-
related topics, including topics related to SSMP development (up to and
including adoption of SSMP updates) at its regularly-scheduled City Council
meetings. These meetings are publicly noticed and open to the public.
14
593 of 891

--- page 594 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 15
Audit Team:
Prepared By:
Vivian Housen, VWHA
Date: 10/23/2024
Date: 10/31/2024
Date: 10/31/2024
Date: 11/02/2024
Tony Baltodano, City of San
Reviewed By: 
Mateo
Tony Baltodano, City of San
Mateo
Certified By:
Approved for Filing On
15
594 of 891

--- page 595 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 16
Table 1. Cleaning Performance Indicators
To
5/3/2024
2023
2022
2021
Dry Weather Spills
2
3
5
22
Miles of Sewer Mainline Cleaned
% of Total
135
310
264
266
~58%
100%
100%
100%
Table 1 shows a decrease in dry weather spills over the audit period, confirming the effectiveness of the
City’ operations and maintenance program (Element 4).
Table 2. Number of Spills by Total Volume Spilled
Size of Spill (gallons)
Greater than or equal to 1,000
From 100 to 999
To 5/3/2024
2023
2022
2021
5
2
0
0
7
2
1
3
2
2
12
6
From 10 to 99
Less than 10 (can include in line
above)
0
2
0
0
7
2
Total
10
25
Table 2 shows a decrease in the number of spills in all size categories over the audit period. The only
exception to this trend is the number of spills greater than 1,000 gallons in 2023, which were due to wet
weather events that have since been resolved through the completion of the City’s Underground Flow
Equalization Storage Project (“UFES”) in December 2023. Table 2 confirms the effectiveness of the
City’s operations and maintenance program (Element 4) and capacity assurance program (Element 8).
16
595 of 891

--- page 596 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 17
Table 3. Volume of Spills
Spill Destination
To 5/3/2024
(gal)
2023
(gal)
2022
(gal)
2021
(gal)
Total volume contained and
returned to sewer system for
treatment
100
80,267
1,240
6,067
Total volume reaching waters of
the United States
7,050
2,130,525 
505,425 
364,061
Total volume not contained but
not reaching waters of the
0
0
0
832
United States (everything else)
Total
7,150
2,210,792 
506,665 
370,960
Table 3 shows a substantial decrease in the volume of spills in 2024 as compared to prior years. This
change is due to the completion of the City’s UFES project, which has addressed the City’s wet weather
spills at 25th and Delaware. Table 3 confirms the effectiveness of the City’s capacity assurance program
(Element 8).
17
596 of 891

--- page 597 ---
City of San Mateo
2024 SSMP Audit
Page 18
Table 4. Causes of Spills
# to
5/2/2024
# in 2023 # in 2022 
# in 2021
Cause of Spill
Blockage:
Roots
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
2
2
1
4
0
1
5
0
2
0
7
8
9
Grease
Debris
0
2
Subtotal for Blockage
Infrastructure Failure
Flow Capacity Deficiency
Bypass
3
19
3
0
6
3
1
0
Total
10
25
Table 4 shows a decrease in the number of spills in all categories over the audit period. The only
exception to this trend is the number of spills related to capacity deficiencies, which increased in 2023.
The City’s most significant capacity issues at 25th and Delaware have been addressed through completion
of the City’s UFES project. Table 4 confirms the effectiveness of the City’ operations and maintenance
program (Element 4) and capacity assurance program (Element 8).
18
597 of 891

--- page 598 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 610027
File ID: 25-9842
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
Monday, April 21, 2025
SUBJECT:
Construction Management Services for Central Park Playground Improvements Project – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to 4LEAF, Inc. (Consultant) for construction management services for the Central Park Playground 
Improvements Project (Project) on a time and expense reimbursement basis for actual work performed, in an amount 
of $1,000,000; authorize  a contingency amount of $150,000, for a total amount not to exceed $1,150,000; and 
authorize the Parks and Recreation Director to execute the contract, in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Parks and Recreation Department does not have sufficient staff resources to inspect and oversee all 
construction activities, therefore requiring third-party construction management and inspection to augment city 
resources. On February 25, 2025, a request for proposals was issued for construction management services for the 
playground improvements project at Central Park. 
 
The scope of work for construction management services includes managing all communication between the City and the 
contractor during the construction of the playground improvements, ensuring compliance with mitigation requirements of 
the Final Central Park Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration, providing construction management and inspection 
services, ensuring that the contractor meets the conditions of the City’s construction permit.  Additional duties include but 
are not limited to coordination for the Caltrans’ encroachment permit, quality control, monitoring the construction 
schedule, ensuring tree protection and preservation compliance, negotiating change order requests, reviewing 
contractor’s application for payment, providing inspections reports, close-out services, and other construction support 
services.
 
Staff received a total of six (6) proposals from 4LEAF, Inc., Alpha CM, CM Consolidated, Consor PMCM, Inc., MNS 
Engineers, Inc., and Roebelen Management, Inc.  Consultants were evaluated on several key components as part of the 
proposal process including project understanding, experience with similar projects, the technical ability of key staff, 
proposed construction management services, and corresponding fee schedule. Five of the six proposals were found to be 
incomplete because of missing services, resumes or fee schedules. Only 4LEAF, Inc. provided a complete proposal with all 
requested services and information. Past client references provided by 4LEAF were vetted by staff and received positive 
referrals.
 
For the Central Park Playground Improvements Project, staff recommend awarding a contract for construction 
management services to 4LEAF, Inc. on an hourly rate plus expense reimbursement basis for actual work performed, 
in an amount of $1,000,000; and establish a 15% contingency of $150,000, for a total amount not to exceed 
$1,150,000. 
598 of 891

--- page 599 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient budget funds to cover the construction management services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
An Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) was prepared for the Central Park Master Plan, which 
includes the Playground Improvements Project, and approved in 2018. The IS/MND concluded that the project would 
not have any significant effects with the incorporation of mitigation measures that have been included in the project’s 
Conditions of Approval to ensure compliance during project implementation. In addition, City Council’s authorization 
of the requested budget appropriations is not a project subject to CEQA review, because it consists of a government 
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Contract
STAFF CONTACT
King Leong, Sr. Project Manager
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)752-7542
599 of 891

--- page 600 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
AGREEMENT WITH 4LEAF, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR  
CENTRAL PARK PLAYGROUND IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of_________, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California (“CITY”), and  4LEAF, Inc., a 
corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 2126 Rheem Drive, Pleasanton, CA 94588. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain construction management services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these construction management services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to 
provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in Exhibit 
A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of 
all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without additional 
compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the 
services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code 
Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
600 of 891

--- page 601 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 21, 2025 and be 
completed on December 31, 2026. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment request 
upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full performance of the 
services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT on a hourly rate plus expenses for actual work 
performed, in an amount not to exceed $1,150,000 pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, 
attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have the 
right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' written 
notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon receipt of said 
written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents become 
the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without additional 
compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although instruments 
of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is 
executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of this 
Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any such 
documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by CONSULTANT or CITY 
without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or 
indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the 
services under this Agreement. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
601 of 891

--- page 602 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while 
providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of 
CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or 
willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early 
termination of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years thereafter 
(five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT and 
cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is skilled in 
the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY 
relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not 
operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other 
term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or other money 
which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by 
the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
602 of 891

--- page 603 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise unenforceable by a 
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost 
bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above 
$5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, 
and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that 
neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions 
to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable 
regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its subcontractors 
shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical 
handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational 
qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to 
by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation Service, 
or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and 
making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a 
meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, 
unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon 
CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for testimony, testimony, 
and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
603 of 891

--- page 604 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Joanne Magrini 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave., 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
4LEAF, Inc. 
Attn:  Gene Barry 
2126 Rheem Drive,  
Pleasanton, CA 94588. 
 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and CONSULTANT and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, deliver, and 
perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the 
legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of litigation, 
venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
604 of 891

--- page 605 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and 4LEAF, Inc. have executed this Agreement the day and 
year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Joanne Magrini 
Parks and Recreation Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Gene Barry 
Its Authorized Agent 
Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
  
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Kevin Duggan 
President / Secretary 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
4/17/2025
4/17/2025
605 of 891

--- page 606 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The Scope of Service contemplated for the Central Park Playground Improvements Project include, but is not limited to 
the following:  
 
1. Environmental Services/ MMRP compliance - Provide qualified staff required for compliance with mitigation 
monitoring and reporting program (MMRP) for the San Mateo Central Park Master Plan Update Final Initial Study / 
Mitigated Negative Declaration, Dated January 12, 2018.  
2. Construction Management and Inspection Services. 
a. Act as construction project coordinator and the point of contact for all communications and interaction with the 
contractor, affected local agencies and design consultant. 
b. Coordination with the City’s Project Manager. 
c. Provide administrative support including, but not limited to, maintaining project files, convening necessary 
meetings, providing meeting notes, monthly progress reports, photographic documentation, pay application 
reviews/negotiations and on-site observation.  
d. Provide, administer, and use web-based Project software site for purposes of hosting and managing Project 
communication and documentation until Final Completion. 
e. Ensure all permits are pulled and inspections are conducted: 
 
Construction permit and renewal of expired permits 
 
Caltrans encroachment permits and traffic control plan 
f. Inspect and ensure Contractor’s compliance of: 
 
Tree protection measures and fencing 
 
Erosion Control BMP’s and SWPPP 
 
Construction site fencing and safety protocols. 
g. Review scheduled submittals and provide schedule management support. 
h. Ensure product and deferred submittals are submitted and processed in a timely manner. 
i. 
Oversee the RFI process. 
j. 
Evaluate, negotiate, recommend, and prepare change orders. 
k. Perform field inspection activities, monitor contractor’s performance and enforce all requirements of applicable 
codes, specifications, and contract drawings. 
l. 
Oversee quality control and materials testing. 
m. Ensure all special inspections including structural, geotechnical, soils and materials testing, as required by the 
project are scheduled and completed. 
n. Ensure all play equipment are installed per manufacturer’s instructions and pass safety inspections performed 
by a certified by a Certified Playground Safety Inspector. 
o. Schedule, manage, perform and document all field and laboratory testing services as provided in project 
specifications. 
p. All reports, calculations, measurements, test data and other documentation shall be prepared on forms 
specified by or otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
606 of 891

--- page 607 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
q. Review and monitor the construction schedule. Prepare weekly reports documenting the progress of 
construction. Take photographs and videotape recordings of the construction progress on a regular basis. 
r. Prepare and recommend progress payments. 
s. Identify potential claims and make recommendations to resolve said claims. 
t. Daily reports, extra work diaries, materials testing reports, and other reports shall be submitted to the City.  
u. Provide final punch-list inspection services and project closeout activities, including preparation of the final 
construction project report. 
v. Turn over all As-builts and conformed construction documents to the City. 
w. Provide close-out support including site furniture, fixtures and equipment installations, punch list management, 
O&M manuals, as-built reference documentation review, final release of retention pay review and warranty 
work management. 
3. Hazardous Materials Compliance Services. - Consultant to provide coordination for regulatory compliance for 
removal, containment, abatement, and disposal of hazardous materials including regulated asbestos containing 
materials and piping, lead containing paints, smoke detectors which may contain a radioactive element or 
contaminated soil.  Services to be provided shall include pre-abatement and post-abatement Submittal Review. 
Review of all contractor submittals related to asbestos and lead abatement, including work plans, safety procedures, 
and material specifications, verify that each submittal complies with applicable regulations and project specifications 
before work begins, and provide written recommendations for adjustments required to address any noted 
discrepancies or issues. After the abatement work is completed, review all final submittals, including clearance 
testing results and project closeout documents, confirm that the abatement work has been completed in 
accordance with the approved specifications and that all necessary documentation is in order. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
607 of 891

--- page 608 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
Construction Management Services 
 
 
 
Invoices shall be submitted by the 20th day of the following month of services. 
 
BASIS OF CHARGES  
A. Rates shown assume projects under this contract will require compliance with California Prevailing Wage rate requirements and assumes 
the Client will be filing a PWC-100 Form to the California Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) for the project.  
B. Rates for prevailing wage categories are subject to annual escalations in accordance with the bi-annual wage determinations from the 
California DIR. Rates based on California DIR’s wage determinations dated August 2024.  
C. Per the new requirements being enforced under SB 854 and because it is assumed that a PWC-100 Form will be filed by the Client to the 
CA DIR for the project, 4LEAF is required to notify an authorized Apprenticeship Committee through submittal of a DAS-140 form. We are 
then required to make an official request to an authorized Apprenticeship Committee for an apprentice by submitting a DAS142 form. 
We are not assured the apprenticeship committee will be able to provide a suitable/qualified apprentice for the project. Per the 
apprenticeship requirements, the hours worked by the apprentice must be at a ratio of 1:5 for apprentice to journeyman hours. 4LEAF 
will not know the labor classification of the Public Works Apprentice until an Apprentice is dispatched to the site; therefore, the rates for 
the five Periods listed under the California DIR’s Wage determination for Building Construction Inspector issued August 2024 were used 
to determine the range of Calendar Year 2024 hourly rates for Public Works Inspector Apprentice.  
D. All invoicing will be submitted monthly.  
E. Overtime and Premium time will be charged as follows:  
- Night Time (work begun after 4PM or before 5AM) 1.125 x hourly rate  
- Overtime 1 (over 8 hours M-F or Saturdays) 1.35 x hourly rate  
- Overtime 2 (over 8 hours Sat or 1st 8 hour Sun) 1.85 x hourly rate  
- Overtime 3 (over 8 hours Sun or Holidays) 2.35 x hourly rate 
F. All work with less than 8 hours rest between shifts will be charged the appropriate overtime rate.  
G. Subconsultant invoices will be assessed a 10% Administrative Processing Fee.  
H. Project-related mileage for inspections will be billed at the allowable IRS Rate.  
I. Payment due on receipt. All payments over 30 days will be assessed as a 1.5% interest charge.  
J. Intentionally deleted. 
K. Intentionally deleted. 
L. In accordance with California’s Meal Break and Rest Break Law requirements, Client will be billed one (1) additional hour per day at the 
regular rate for each missed meal or rest break due to Client-directed tasks or requirements. Client should allow 4LEAF’s nonexempt, 
hourly employees the opportunity to take their entitled rest and meal breaks during each work shift.  
M. If 4LEAF is requested or otherwise required to conform to Client’s alternative workweek schedule (“AWW”), Client hereby agrees to 
compensate or reimburse 4LEAF for all overtime paid to its employees who work an AWW. If 4LEAF’s affected employment group 
approves an AWW election and the same is registered, overtime compensation/reimbursement shall not be required. 
 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
608 of 891

--- page 609 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
  
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
609 of 891

--- page 610 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Inspections 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
610 of 891

--- page 611 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
  INSURANCE – Intentionally deleted
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
611 of 891

--- page 612 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
612 of 891

--- page 613 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
613 of 891

--- page 614 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
614 of 891

--- page 615 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 16 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Hazardous Materials 
 
 
 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
615 of 891

--- page 616 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 17 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Certified Arborist 
 
 
Certified Playground Safety Inspector  
 
 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
616 of 891

--- page 617 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 18 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & advertising injury, with 
limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be 
twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT has 
no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per 
accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s 
Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s profession, 
with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate. 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the 
auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or 
on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s 
insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance as 
respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance 
maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the 
CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
617 of 891

--- page 618 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 19 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after thirty 
(30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may require 
the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise 
acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of the 
applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to 
be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure to obtain the required 
documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them.  The 
City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
618 of 891

--- page 619 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 20 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
619 of 891

--- page 620 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
620 of 891

--- page 621 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 22 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
621 of 891

--- page 622 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 23 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
622 of 891

--- page 623 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 24 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
623 of 891

--- page 624 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 25 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
624 of 891

--- page 625 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 26 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
625 of 891

--- page 626 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 27 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
626 of 891

--- page 627 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 28 of 28 
Rev 12/23 
 
Docusign Envelope ID: 6411CA1B-D10A-41C3-9543-A649E7FFECFF
627 of 891

--- page 628 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 25-9838
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Housing Element Implementation – Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation and provide direction on how to implement the tenant protection/anti-displacement policies in the 
2023-2031 Housing Element. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Housing Element) established goals, policies, and programs to 
facilitate the production of 7,015 housing units and address key housing challenges identified through the housing needs 
assessment and community input process. The Housing Element was adopted by the City Council on May 20, 2024, and 
certified by the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) on July 23, 2024.
The City identified five overarching goals to guide the Housing Element’s policies and programs. The first three are based 
upon the “3Ps” framework that seeks to address the region’s housing needs and is endorsed by the Association of Bay 
Area Governments (ABAG):
1.
Production of New Housing at all Income Levels, with a Focus on Affordable Housing
2.
Preservation of Existing Housing that is Affordable to Lower- And Middle-Income Residents
3.
Protection of Current Residents to Prevent Displacement
The fourth goal, or “fourth P,” is Promotion of community engagement and public outreach to support social resilience, 
and the fifth goal is to Affirmatively Further Housing (AFFH). The City committed to either researching or adopting 
multiple tenant protection policies to further the Protection and AFFH goals.
These policies include expanding certain provisions of Assembly Bill 1482 (AB 1482, also known as the Tenant Protection 
Act); strengthening existing policies related to substantial remodel evictions and unsafe or substandard units; and research 
options and best practices for improving data tracking of rental rates, evictions, and displacement. Implementation of 
these policies began in 2024 and is continuing into 2025/2026.  Each Housing Element policy and its implementing actions 
are outlined in Table 1 below:
Table 1 – Housing Element Policies 
Housing Element Policy
Implementation Actions
Policy H 3.4: Expand tenant 
protections in local ordinance to 
extend measures of AB 1482 
related to relocation, 
a.
Extend requirement of documentation from landlords who use the substantial 
remodel exemption to evict tenants and a Right to Return policy for tenants 
AB1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for No Fault evictions 
for those with tenure less than one year.
628 of 891

--- page 629 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
documentation, and right to 
return policy in eviction cases.
b.
Make recommendations to the City Council for establishing tenant protection 
policies that include the displaced from their homes due to demolition or 
substantial remodels.
c.
Amend the Code to strengthen enforcement penalty structure to aid in 
protecting tenants from unsafe or substandard units.
d.
Conduct outreach to the community on a biannual basis. 
Policy H 3.6: Monitor rents, 
evictions, and tenant 
displacement citywide.
a.
Research options and best practices for a rental registry list, including 
determining necessary financial and human resources needed to establish such 
a program. Make recommendations to City Council. 
b.
Collaborate with regional partners, such as 21 Elements or ABAG, to develop 
ways to monitor rental rates, evictions and displacement citywide and 
countywide to track trends and use the information to guide policy priorities.
Policy H 5.4.1: Establish tenant 
protections in local ordinance to 
extend measures of AB 1482 
related to relocation, 
documentation, and right to 
return policy in eviction cases.
a.
Extend AB1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for No Fault 
evictions for tenants with tenure less than one year. 
b.
Make recommendations to the City Council for establishing tenant protection 
policies that include the requirement of documentation from landlords who use 
the substantial remodel exemption to evict tenants and a Right to Return policy 
for tenants displaced from homes due to demolition or substantial remodels. 
c.
Amend the Code to strengthen enforcement penalty structure to aid in 
protecting tenants from unsafe or substandard units. This item is connected to 
Policy H 3.4. 
Prior Tenant Protection/Anti-Displacement Efforts
Public input from the Housing Element outreach process, feedback from HCD, and City Council direction informed the 
policies and actions that were included in the City’s Housing Element. In addition, here’s a summary of significant policy 
activities that have happened in San Mateo related to tenant protections over the past ten years:
•
In 2016, a measure was placed on the ballot (Measure Q) that proposed to enact rent regulation and just cause for 
eviction requirements. Measure Q would have limited rent increases for certain multi-family units to the change in 
Consumer Price Index (CPI) up to 4 percent annually, among other requirements related to just-cause evictions 
and relocation assistance. Out of 40,126 votes, 60% of voters voted against Measure Q and 40% voted in favor. 
•
In 2019, following a three-year task force on anti-displacement, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2019-6, 
which required relocation assistance for tenants displaced from unsafe or substandard units and made key 
changes to two other existing City policies (see Table 3 below). 
•
Most recently, on August 15, 2022, the City Council held a study session to consider tenant protection policies to 
be incorporated into the Housing Division workplan. The agenda report, staff presentation, meeting video and 
other materials from the study session are available on the City’s Public Meeting Portal. 
In addition to the above, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s (MTC) Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy 
is an important part of the anti-displacement and tenant protection policy backdrop. Jurisdictions with a TOC (three in San 
Mateo) are expected to achieve TOC compliance by the One Bay Area Grant (OBAG) 4 deadline in early 2026 by meeting 
several policy thresholds. These include standards for density near transit, parking and transportation; a commercial 
stabilization policy; and at least two affordable housing policies in the areas of production, preservation, and protection. 
The list of protection policies can be found at this link. 
City Contributions to Housing Assistance
The City currently contributes Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds to three organizations providing fair 
housing counseling (Project Sentinel), housing legal aid (Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County), and core services, 
including housing case management (Samaritan House). The City provides these funds  annually via a joint funding process 
629 of 891

--- page 630 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
with the County of San Mateo and other CDBG entitlement jurisdictions. The FY2024-25 CDBG allocations to the three 
organizations total $53,200.
Tenant Protection and Anti-Displacement Outreach and Research
To begin implementation of the above Housing Element policies, staff developed a plan to conduct research and fact-
finding and gather input from a wide range of community stakeholders throughout the fall and winter of 2024, working 
towards a City Council study session on tenant protection and anti-displacement in early 2025. Staff also initiated a formal 
collaboration with 21 Elements in August 2024, which has facilitated a series of multi-jurisdiction meetings and technical 
assistance to jurisdictions implementing Housing Element anti-displacement policies and anti-displacement strategies.  
Staff began conducting background research in September 2024, including meetings with legal service providers, to obtain 
information on San Mateo-specific data on evictions and related housing issues. A recurring theme of the research into 
rental housing conditions in San Mateo is a lack of comprehensive local data. However, there are some indicators that can 
help to frame the discussion. 
Staff reviewed data from the City’s Business Tax License records and CoStar, an online commercial real estate database. 
The City’s Business License Tax records contain 1,028 registered rental properties, while the CoStar database shows 1,110 
rental properties (note that there is no data on single-family homes on CoStar). 
Incomes and Rents
One of the main contributors to displacement in the Bay Area is the combination of high rents and significant income 
disparities. The Area Median Income (AMI) for San Mateo County has climbed steadily in recent years. At the same time, 
to the most recent data from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Consolidated Housing 
Affordability Survey (CHAS), 49 percent of renters in San Mateo are in the lower income category, which includes low 
income (80 percent of AMI) and very low income (50 percent of AMI).
Table 2 below shows average rents by bedroom count according to the website Zumper, along with the income needed to 
afford rent without cost burden (30 percent of income), the countywide Area Median Income, and low income limits (80 
percent of AMI). Average rents for 2-, 3-, or 4-bedroom units require an income higher than the low income limit; rents for 
3- and 4-bedroom units require an income that exceeds the AMI. 
Table 2 - Average Rents Compared to Incomes
 
San Mateo 
Average Rent
Income needed
Area Median 
Income
Low Income (up 
to 80% AMI)
Studio
$2,352
$94,080
$130,600
$109,700
1 bedroom
$2,706
$108,240
$149,300
$125,350
2 bedrooms
$3,609
$144,360
$167,950
$141,000
3 bedrooms
$4,948
$197,920
$186,000
$156,650
4 bedrooms
$9,993
$399,720
$201,550
$169,200
Source: Zumper, Q2 2025 and CA Department of Housing and Community Development. Occupancy 
assumption is number of bedrooms plus one. 
It should be noted that rents vary significantly across housing type and are dependent on factors such as building class, 
size, size of units, and number of units.
Of the properties listed on CoStar, the largest share of rental housing consists of properties of 2-5 rental units (42 percent), 
followed by properties of up to 10 units (37 percent). There is no data on single-family homes. These smaller properties 
are largely older buildings, with the majority built before 1990. Properties of 50-200 units make up 5 percent of the total 
and are markedly newer. 
These characteristics are notable because rents vary significantly between buildings of different sizes and ages – rents for 
units in older buildings are, on average, lower than units in newer multi-family developments. Ownership type also varies; 
630 of 891

--- page 631 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
there are more individual owners among properties with fewer units, while larger numbers of units tend to be owned by 
corporate entities. This variation is important to consider when discussing the policies in this report, as different segments 
of the rental market will respond differently to their implementation. 
Evictions
Staff met with legal service providers serving San Mateo clients to obtain data on eviction cases and general trends in 
caseloads over the last five years. These organizations provide services prior to formal eviction proceedings and legal aid in 
unlawful detainer (UD) cases. All reported a significant increase in caseloads. For example, Project Sentinel, a non-profit 
that provides services in fair housing, dispute resolution, and support to tenants facing eviction in San Mateo County, 
found a 24% increase in their caseload, from 346 cases in 2018 to 428 cases in 2023. Legal Aid Society of San Mateo 
County reported that their caseload on UDs in 2019 went from 1,120 to 1,520 in 2023, a 35% increase. 
This trend can be attributed in part,  to the termination of COVID-19 pandemic-related rental assistance and eviction 
moratoria. At the same time, all organizations stated that AB 1482 (summarized in Table 3 below) has significantly 
curtailed “no-cause” evictions. The primary reason for most eviction cases is nonpayment of rent.
A study of court records of eviction filings in San Mateo County published in February 2025 by Mills Legal Clinic at Stanford 
Law School supports these observations. AB 1482 appeared to contribute to a significant drop in “no-cause” evictions, with 
the vast majority of evictions due to alleged nonpayment of rent. San Mateo (city), with 141 filings, is one of the four San 
Mateo County jurisdictions with more than 100 UDs in 2019 and 2023 combined, along with Daly City, East Palo Alto, and 
Redwood City. 
Even with comprehensive data on court filings, the extent of residential displacement due to “soft” or “functional” 
evictions – cases where displacement occurs, but the formal case never reaches the courts – is unknown. The Stanford Law 
School study also does not provide details such as the type of housing (single-family dwelling, small or large multi-family, 
older or newer stock), geographic concentrations of eviction filings within San Mateo, or the extent to which evictions 
disproportionately impact people of color or those of lower income. 
Outreach and Community Engagement
In parallel with this research, staff also conducted outreach and community engagement to consult with both tenants and 
property owners in fall and winter 2024 and 2025; and two community workshops were held through the Community 
Relations Commission on November 20, 2024 and January 15, 2025. A variety of public comments were received from 
community stakeholders on potential anti-displacement and tenant protection strategies and programs. A summary of the 
public comments received in both community workshops can be found in the meeting minutes from the Community 
Relations Commission in Attachment 1.
In December 2024, staff facilitated five focus group meetings with community stakeholders to gather more input on how 
housing issues and current policies impact tenants and property owners. Input received included the following: 
•
Support for policies that increase likelihood that renters can successfully relocate within or in close proximity to 
San Mateo; in particular, increasing all forms of relocation assistance to three months’ rent. 
•
Support for a rental registry to address a lack of San Mateo-specific housing data that could facilitate policymaking 
in this area. 
•
Opposition to a rental registry due to concerns about privacy and administrative burden on property owners and 
managers to meet extensive reporting requirements.
•
Support for a policy that would limit no-fault evictions during the school year.
•
Emphasis on differences in the ability of larger versus smaller property owners and managers to keep apprised of, 
and comply with, complex state and local laws.
•
Emphasis on the effect of increased regulation on property owners who tend to own smaller, older, and relatively 
more affordable housing, and who are facing steep increases in costs (insurance, utilities, etc.).
631 of 891

--- page 632 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Overarching concern about ability of renters to remain in their San Mateo community.
•
Support for education and outreach on current tenant protections and available resources and emphasis on 
providing education and outreach in multiple languages.
•
Emphasis on the limited supply of rental units impacting rent prices.
Current Protections in State and Local Law
There are many state laws that address various aspects of the rental market and that set the existing policy framework for 
tenants and landlords. Some relevant policies include:
Table 3 – Current Laws and Ordinances
Policy/Ordinance
Description
Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.50
Relocation assistance for tenants in unsafe or 
substandard units that are temporarily or 
permanently displaced due to City Code 
Enforcement activities (temporary – actual moving 
and temporary housing costs up to three times Fair 
Market Rent; permanent – three times Fair Market 
Rent plus moving costs). Tenant right of return to 
the unit or to a comparable unit.
Municipal Code 
Chapter 26.65.060
For units converted into condominiums, stock 
cooperatives, or community apartments, tenants 
have the right to purchase three months after City 
approval. Relocation assistance required (three 
times Fair Market Rent). 
City Protections 
Municipal Code 
Chapter 27.02.180
Relocation assistance for tenants in demolished or 
converted units (three months’ Fair Market Rent 
plus moving costs).
Assembly Bill (AB) 
1482 (Tenant 
Protection Act of 2019)
Limits rent increases, implements “just cause” for 
covered tenancies, and provides relocation 
assistance to tenants who are evicted for “no-fault” 
reasons. Exempts buildings newer than 15 years 
old, single-family homes not owned by a 
corporation, and owner-occupied duplexes. Note: 
Senate Bill (SB) 567 tightens some AB 1482 
provisions by requiring additional landlord 
documentation.
State Protections 
SB 330 (Housing Crisis 
Act of 2019)
Requirement for developers to replace demolished 
“protected” rental and affordable housing units, 
offer relocation assistance, and offer right of first 
refusal to a comparable, new unit. Note: AB 1218 
expands the “no net loss” provisions in the Housing 
Crisis Act of 2019.
Policy Alternatives for City Council Consideration
The table in Attachment 2 describes various options for the City Council to consider to implement the relevant Housing 
Element policies and to respond to the findings described in this report. The table identifies each Housing Element policy, 
briefly describes the problem it is intended to address, discusses potential benefits and costs, and lists jurisdictions with 
some version of the policy. Policy alternatives are discussed below, with additional details included in Attachment 2. 
Relocation Assistance
AB 1482 introduced the requirement of relocation assistance for no-fault, just-cause evictions, which include owner move-
in, substantial renovation or demolition, a requirement to vacate the unit related to habitability, or withdrawal of the unit 
632 of 891

--- page 633 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
from the rental market. This provision only applies to tenants in covered units who have lived in the unit for one year or 
more. The purpose of expanding relocation assistance to tenants who have been in the unit for less than one year is to  
provide the same level of protection afforded by AB 1482 to all tenants evicted for these reasons. Policy alternatives to 
consider include the amount of relocation assistance provided and the qualifying length of tenure (e.g., no minimum, 
minimum 3, 6, 9 or 11months).
Right to Return
While AB 1482 addresses relocation assistance, there is no right to return provision for tenants evicted for the reasons 
stated above. SB 567 provides for the right to return only in cases of substantial renovation where the work is not 
completed (or never commences). While some of the City’s policies include a right to return, they do not address most no-
fault evictions described in AB 1482, and do not apply to demolitions. The purpose of a right to return policy is to provide 
tenants an opportunity to return to their unit in all of these cases.  
Strengthened Enforcement Penalty Structure for Unsafe or Substandard Units
As noted above, the City’s existing ordinance on relocation assistance for tenants in unsafe or substandard units that are 
temporarily or permanently displaced due to City Code Enforcement activities is from 2019. Since adoption, as the 
ordinance has been utilized, there have been some functional issues and policy limitations that have been identified. 
Housing Element Policy H.3.4(c) was included to improve the intended function of the ordinance, including the provision of 
relocation assistance and the appeals process. 
Specifically, for tenants whose temporary displacement becomes permanent, the ordinance does not offer additional, or 
cumulative assistance beyond three times the US Department of Housing and Urban Development Fair Market Rent (FMR). 
This is an important gap to address because of the high cost of living in San Mateo, where three times FMR may be 
insufficient even in cases of short-term displacement. Based on City implementation of the ordinance, allowing for greater 
relocation benefits if a temporary relocation becomes permanent would avoid significant finance impacts to tenants who 
are no longer able to return to their unit.  With regards to the processing of an appeal related to a relocation finding,  
Council provided earlier direction to explore alternatives, including the use of a hearing officer. 
Rent Registry 
The purpose of a rent registry is to collect data specific on the rental housing stock in a jurisdiction. The level of specificity 
that a rent registry provides exceeds that of any other data sources, including commercial real estate databases or local 
sources such as business license records. For example, a rent registry can provide accurate information on the number of 
rental units, rents charged, and vacancy rates, track unit turnover by category, and track evictions. 
To determine what data is currently available, staff reviewed the City’s internal business license tax database and CoStar; 
some of these results are discussed elsewhere in this report. Both sources help to determine the approximate number of 
rental properties citywide, but the data is aggregated, provided as averages, and incomplete (no data on single-family 
homes). While valuable sources of information, they require several assumptions and are best used to identify broad 
trends in the local rental market. 
Several Bay Area jurisdictions have proposed or instituted rent registries. These include the following:
•
East Palo Alto: The City of East Palo Alto selected a firm via an RFP process in 2024 and expects to implement a rent 
registry by mid-2025. The city is leveraging its existing Rent Stabilization and Just Cause for Eviction program, which 
regulates approximately 2,500 of the city’s rental units and includes full-time staff.
•
Foster City: (pending) A Rental Registry was presented to the Foster City City Council in October 2024 to apply only to 
the city’s Below Market Rate (BMR) units. Through this rental registry, the city intends to gather additional data to 
improve the auditing and monitoring process and ensure that tenants and BMR property owners are compliant with 
the regulations. This is a pilot program.
633 of 891

--- page 634 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Half Moon Bay: The City of Half Moon Bay adopted a rent registry ordinance in February 2024 and began registrations 
in June 2024. This was followed in fall 2024 by implementation of a new rent stabilization program. The stated purpose 
of the rent registry was to identify how many rental units exist in Half Moon Bay and to track year-over-year changes, 
including displacement of residents. The rent registry website can be viewed here.  
•
Concord: The City of Concord has an established Rent Registry program for the past four years that collects data on 
rent amount, property address, size of unit, number of bedrooms and bathrooms, lease terms, and parking spaces. All 
rental units are required to be registered, including single-family homes. The city releases an annual report each year 
on its Rental Registry Webpage. 
•
Palo Alto: In October 2024, the City of Palo Alto launched a Rental Registry Program for rental properties with three or 
more units. The stated purpose of this registry is to better understand the rental landscape in Palo Alto and help 
inform future Council decision-making (see link).  
While rent registries provide a reliable source of rental information, jurisdictions must weigh this benefit against the costs 
of establishing and maintaining the registry. Cities must invest in an RFP process to identify a firm that can create the rent 
registry and budget for significant costs associated with registry set-up and maintenance, annual consultant and software 
fees, and city staff time. Some cost recovery is possible with a citation system, but this also requires staff time. Below are 
some examples of rent registry budgets and estimates:
•
East Palo Alto budgeted $150,000 for program set-up, with an additional $150,000 on an annual basis.
•
Half Moon Bay requires $30,000 annually to maintain its rent registry contract, plus one half of a permanent staff 
position and a full-time temporary position. 
•
Concord’s program has an average budget of $81,000 per year for the rent registry software. Their program runs 
on a cost-recovery model using Rent Registry fees to cover the software and personnel. 
•
Through General Funds, Palo Alto budgeted $443,256 over four years to cover software services, one full-time 
staff position, and other additional services. Palo Alto has the intention to switch to a partial cost-recovery model 
after the first year.
Emergency Rental Assistance
Receiving an eviction notice due to non-payment of rent can lead to a household becoming homeless. For this reason, 
several jurisdictions in San Mateo County have implemented their own emergency rental assistance program to help 
renters avoid missing a month’s rent, utility payments, or security deposits. The household limit for this assistance ranges 
from $4,000-5,000. Jurisdictions such as South San Francisco, Daly City, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Redwood City, and 
Brisbane use either General Funds or Housing Successor Funds to make this form of assistance available. The average 
funding for this is $84,000 annually. The jurisdiction has the option to independently administer the program, or contract 
with a nonprofit service agency. Payments are issued directly to the property owner.
City Council Direction
Based on the information provided in this agenda report and the policies in the City’s Housing Element, staff is seeking 
Council direction on the following questions to guide how the City proceeds with implementation.
1.
Given the commitment in Policy H.3.4(a) to extending relocation assistance for no-fault evictions for those with 
tenure less than one-year, which policy alternative would the City Council like to pursue, i.e., qualifying length of 
tenure and amount of compensation?
2.
Would the City Council like to pursue a policy related to right-to-return as described in Policy H.3.4(b), and if so, 
which alternative should be pursued? 
3.
Given the commitment in Policy H.3.4(c) to strengthening the enforcement penalty structure of the City’s existing 
ordinance on relocation assistance for tenants displaced by code enforcement activities, what changes would the 
City Council like to pursue in an amended ordinance? 
634 of 891

--- page 635 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
4.
Would the City Council like to pursue a rent registry, a different model for data tracking, or rely on existing data 
sources to achieve the goals of Policy H.3.6? 
5.
Are there other policy alternatives the City Council would like to pursue based on the findings in this report? 
6.
Does the City Council wish to prioritize any of these items as staff continues with implementation?
Next Steps
Based on the direction provided by the City Council, staff will begin drafting the necessary code amendments, policy 
language or program proposal(s), as necessary, and return to the City Council for further approval of each item. Due to the 
differing nature of the various policy alternatives, depending on the feedback City Council provides, these items may be 
addressed in groupings, or as standalone items. Staff is working towards implementing all actions related to Policies H 3.4, 
H 3.6, and H 5.4.1 by the end of 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The impact on the General Fund and other housing funds will depend on the direction the City Council provides in this 
study session. Code amendments to reflect updates to an existing ordinance or to introduce a new ordinance will have 
minimal impact, but there may be costs associated with implementation. As noted above, a rent registry – or any data 
collection mechanism – will have associated upfront and ongoing costs. Finally, a rental assistance program could be 
supported out of a restricted Housing fund, such as the Housing Successor Fund (F255), with no impact to the General 
Fund.  Staff will address the budgetary impact of each item when returning to the City Council for further direction or 
approval.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Community Relations Commission - Community Workshop #1 and #2 Minutes
Att 2 - Policy Alternatives
STAFF CONTACT
Rachel Horst, Housing Manager
(650) 522-7223
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
635 of 891

--- page 636 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION – REGULAR MEETING          
MINUTES – November 20, 2024 
The November 20, 2024 Regular Meeting of the Community Relations Commission (CRC) was called to order at 
7:10 pm. Chair Boles called the meeting to order. 
 
ROLL CALL 
Chair Boles and Commissioners Nugent and Kim were present. Vice Chair Fitzgerald and Commissioner Crowell (excused) 
were absent.  
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT 
Rachel Horst- Housing Manager, Zachary Dahl- Community Development Director, and Jennifer Mora- Housing Specialist 
were present.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR / APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
1. The minutes of the September 5, 2024 meeting were approved. (Boles/Nugent; 3-0-2) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
No public comment was received.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. Community Needs Workshop for 2025-26 Community Development Block Grant Annual Action Plan 
The Community Relations Commission determined community priorities in preparation of the 2025-26 Annual 
Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Program. 
 
Public Comment on this item:  
Public comment was received from 9 members of the public and broadly included the following recommendations 
for CDBG funding priorities:  
• Continue to fund legal services organizations to assist the anticipated growing number of evictions.  
• Fund programs to stop the “gap” when the tenant cannot pay a month’s rent to avoid evictions for 
nonpayment, rather than “penalizing” landlords 
•  Make available programs to assist tenants to apply for housing programs such as Section 8. 
• Create more housing options for low-income housing for seniors and individuals with mental or physical 
disabilities.  
• Continue funding for repairs/maintenance on sidewalks to mitigate damage done by trees to sidewalks 
and trip hazards. 
•  Continue to prioritize affordable housing under CDBG.  
 
3. Community Workshop on Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies 
Staff provided a presentation on the current tenant protection policies and the City’s strategies to address 
displacement, a goal in the Housing Element.  
 
Public Comment on this item:  
Public comment was received from 18 members of the public on this item. Comments included the following broad 
areas: 
• Increasing relocation benefits to three months for all evictions.  
• Lowering the limit of rent increases to 3-5% to help prevent displacement, especially of teachers, first 
responders, and essential workers. 
• Removing the “expiration date” on tenant protection laws. 
• Consider that the cost of living in San Mateo is very high, and tenants are living in overcrowded 
conditions.  
• Consider more protections against unsafe living conditions - individuals living in units with mold, 
infestations, or other repair needs. 
636 of 891

--- page 637 ---
CRC Minutes 
 
 
Page 2 
 
 
• There is a need for more tenant and landlord education; cities and counties need to do more outreach. 
• Consider that rent control may result in a decrease in quality of housing units and can disincentivize 
maintenance of units.  
• Rent registries raise privacy concerns for right to privacy. 
• City should supply more homes to address the housing crisis.  
• Expand the right-to-return ordinance for households displaced due to substantial renovations or 
reparations. 
• Consider the mom-and-pop landlords who may be impacted by expanded tenant protections, including 
relocation payments. 
• Displacement is traumatic to the tenant, especially when they have children and pets.  
• A rent registry can help the City better understand the market. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
No reports or announcements were made. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
With no further business before the Commission, the meeting adjourned at 9:18 pm (Boles/Nugent; 3-0-2). 
 
637 of 891

--- page 638 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION – REGULAR MEETING          
MINUTES – January 15, 2025 
The January 15, 2025 Regular Meeting of the Community Relations Commission (CRC) was called to order at 7:02
pm. Chair Boles called the meeting to order. 
 
ROLL CALL 
Chair, Vice Chair, and all Commissioners were present. 
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT 
Rachel Horst- Housing Manager and Jennifer Mora- Housing Specialist were present.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR / APPROVAL OF MINUTES 
1. The minutes of the November 20, 2024 meeting were approved. (Nugent/Fitzgerald; 5-0) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
No public comment was received.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
2. Community Workshop on Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies 
Staff provided a presentation on the current tenant protection policies and the City’s strategies to address 
displacement, a goal in the Housing Element.  
 
Public Comment on this item:  
Public comment was received from 22 members of the public on this item. Comments included the following 
broad areas: 
• Low-income tenants being at risk of displacement. 
• Social and emotional challenges to children from displacement. 
• Support for anti-harassment and rental registry policies. 
• Increased rents due to inflation and higher maintenance and insurance expenses. 
• Increasing relocation assistance to keep it consistent with City code provisions for displaced tenants. 
• Limiting no-fault evictions during the school year for families with school-aged children. 
• Support for right-to-return after a substantial remodel. 
• Support for more education on AB 1482. 
• Opposition to additional restrictions on landlords or any policies that add administrative burden. 
• Difficulties faced by landlords in the current rental environment. 
• Rent registries as unnecessary because privatized and government platforms are already available. 
• Support for just-cause protections, regardless of tenure. 
• Support for rent registries to support policymaking.  
• Support for more education and communication on current policies and resources. 
• Overcrowding. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
1. A survey from the City’s Clerk’s Office was sent out to Commissioners. City Staff reminded Commissioners to 
complete the survey.  
2. Caltrain representatives and City Staff will hold a Community Meeting on January 30, 2025 to discuss train noise.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
With no further business before the Commission, the meeting adjourned at 8:23 pm (Nugent/Fitzgerald; 5-0). 
 
638 of 891

--- page 639 ---
Tenant Protection and Anti-Displacement Policy Alternatives 
Housing Element-Related Policies 
Policy 
Problem 
Potential Benefits 
Potential Costs 
Relocation assistance for 
tenants with tenure less 
than one year 
 
Corresponding Housing 
Element policy: H.3.4(a) 
 
Jurisdictions with a 
relocation assistance policy: 
• 
East Palo Alto 
• 
Menlo Park 
• 
Mountain View 
• 
Palo Alto 
• 
Redwood City 
• 
San Carlos 
• 
South San Francisco 
AB 1482 requires at least 
one month of relocation 
assistance for no-fault 
evictions, but this only 
applies to tenants in their 
units one year or longer. 
• 
All tenants receive 
some relocation 
benefit, regardless of 
tenure 
• 
Some cost to property 
owners  
Increased documentation 
requirements for 
substantial remodel 
evictions 
 
Corresponding Housing 
Element policy: H.3.4(b) 
 
Not recommended – Senate Bill 567 requires owners to provide information on work 
to be performed, copies of permits of work done, and option to tenant to provide 
contact information if they wish to reoccupy the unit. Tenant has right to reoccupy 
property if work not commenced or completed. 
 
Right to Return for tenants 
displaced due to demolition 
or substantial remodels 
 
Corresponding Housing 
Element policy: H.3.4(b) 
 
Jurisdictions with this 
policy: 
• 
East Palo Alto 
• 
Foster City 
• 
San Carlos 
There is no right to return 
for tenants evicted due to 
demolition or substantial 
remodels under AB 1482 
or under Municipal Code. 
• 
Can prevent 
permanent 
displacement  
 
 
• 
Potentially 
cumbersome to 
implement 
• 
Tenant temporarily 
displaced for duration 
of remodel work or 
construction 
• 
New rent may be 
cost-prohibitive to the 
tenant, preventing a 
return 
Strengthened enforcement 
penalty structure for unsafe 
or substandard units 
 
Corresponding Housing 
Element policy: H.3.4(c) 
 
The City’s current Tenant 
Relocation Ordinance 
provides for relocation 
assistance to tenants 
displaced by code 
enforcement activities, 
but the amounts have 
• 
May increase 
reporting on 
substandard 
conditions and lead to 
greater habitability 
overall 
• 
More staff time  
 
639 of 891

--- page 640 ---
Jurisdictions with a 
substandard units policy:  
• 
East Palo Alto 
• 
San Carlos 
• 
South San Francisco 
• 
Woodside 
been shown to be 
insufficient, especially in 
cases of permanent 
displacement, to enable 
residents to relocate 
within San Mateo. 
• 
May better support 
tenants who must 
relocate permanently 
to stay in San Mateo 
or vicinity 
Rent Registry 
 
Corresponding Housing 
Element policy: H.3.6 
 
Jurisdictions with a rental 
registry:  
• 
East Palo Alto 
• 
Foster City (limited to 
BMR units and in 
development) 
• 
Half Moon Bay 
• 
Palo Alto 
There is currently a lack of 
data on the rental market 
specific to San Mateo, 
which can limit housing 
policy decisions.  
• 
Accuracy in rental 
trends in San Mateo 
• 
Can assist in making 
housing-related policy 
decisions  
 
• 
Utilizes significant 
staff time 
• 
High cost of program 
rollout 
• 
Costly to manage 
software 
• 
Potential for low 
participation from 
either property 
owners or tenants 
Other Alternatives (from public input and stakeholder meetings) 
Policy 
Problem 
Potential Benefits 
Potential Costs 
Emergency Rental 
Assistance Fund 
 
Jurisdictions with a fund: 
• 
Brisbane 
• 
Colma 
• 
Daly City 
• 
East Palo Alto 
• 
Half Moon Bay 
• 
Redwood City 
• 
San Mateo County 
• 
South San Francisco 
• 
Most eviction cases 
are related to 
nonpayment of rent. 
• 
Timely rent payments 
reduce likelihood of 
eviction 
• 
Benefit to both tenant 
and property owner   
• 
Requires ongoing 
funding source 
• 
Would require fund 
administrator 
(through RFP process) 
and reporting 
• 
Limited funds 
Right to Return for tenants 
displaced due to demolition 
or substantial remodels, 
with return at a rent 
increased by a 
prescribed/limited amount 
 
• 
A right to return may 
be less effective if 
rent of 
remodeled/newly 
constructed unit is 
cost-prohibitive to 
tenant. 
• 
Return to unit 
potentially more 
financially feasible for 
tenant 
• 
Potentially 
cumbersome to 
implement 
• 
Potentially high cost 
to property owners 
Limit on no-fault evictions 
during the school year 
• 
Evictions during the 
school year can 
significantly disrupt, 
and have a harmful 
effect, on the 
• 
Avoids potential harm 
to a student’s 
academic life caused 
by an eviction. 
• 
Potentially difficult to 
implement 
640 of 891

--- page 641 ---
academic life of 
school-aged children.  
 
Relocation Assistance Policy Alternatives 
Alternative 
Potential Benefits 
Potential Costs 
Relocation Alternative: One month of relocation 
assistance for all tenants, regardless of tenure 
• 
Benefit extended to 
all tenants 
• 
Cost incurred by 
property owners, 
but amount may be 
insufficient to 
support tenant in 
relocation 
Relocation Alternative: One month of relocation 
assistance for tenants in their units for prescribed 
timeframe, e.g., 3, 6, 9 , or 11 months 
• 
Benefit extended to 
tenants in targeted 
fashion 
• 
Amount may be 
insufficient to 
support tenant in 
relocation  
Relocation Alternative: More than one month of 
relocation assistance (e.g., 3 months of HUD Fair 
Market Rent) for tenants in their units for prescribed 
timeframe, or all tenants, regardless of tenure 
• 
May allow tenants to 
successfully relocate 
within the city or 
vicinity 
• 
Consistent with City 
Tenant Relocation 
Ordinance (Chapter 
7.50)  
• 
High/potentially 
prohibitive cost to 
property owners 
 
Rent Registry Policy Alternatives 
Rent Registry  
• 
Most detailed and 
accurate data on San 
Mateo housing 
• 
High set-up and 
maintenance costs 
• 
Significant staff time 
• 
Difficult to achieve 
full compliance 
Expanded version of existing City system for tracking 
rental properties (through Business License Tax) 
• 
Builds on an existing 
City platform 
• 
Could provide more 
accurate data on 
rental housing rates 
• 
Data collection 
limited, compared to 
rent registry 
• 
Additional cost to 
City for set-up, 
implementation, and 
maintenance 
 
641 of 891

--- page 642 ---
From:

Sent: Monday, March 31, 2025 11:40 AM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Thoughts related to 4/21 study session

Hi Rachel,

As we approach the date of the study session devoted to AB 1482 expansion, I wanted to share a few
more thoughts.

1) Right to return. When we met with one of the council members recently, s/he asserted a strong
belief that SB 567 had created the right to return after a substantial remodel. Of course this is
not true. SB 567 created the right to return if and only if the owner failed to initiate or complete
the planned remodel, in which case the tenant could return at the previous rent. It did not
create a right to return after the remodel was complete. No doubt you know this, but s/he was
so emphatic that I wanted to touch on it.

2) Data registry. With regard to the rental registry, the housing element states a preference for
pursuing this as part of a regional process, such as one that might be undertaken by 21
Elements. I emailed Josh Abrams of Planning Collaborative and learned that the creation of
rental registries is not part of the 21 Elements’ upcoming work plan for 2025/2026 or beyond.
To tie the rental registry to a nonexistent regional process would seem the equivalent of
putting it in a drawer to die.

3) Relocation assistance.

e When members of the “Our Home San Mateo” coalition met with you, we expressed
our objection to means testing as part of increasing relocation benefits to three months.
The primary reason for our objection is that it provides an incentive for landlords to
discriminate against the very people who are most in need of help. I wanted to take the
opportunity to underscore this since it is such a terrible backfire. However, regardless of
their income brackets, tenants are forced by an eviction to shell out much more than one
month. To shift the burden to the tenants seems especially unfair in light of the fact that
these are discretionary evictions usually done when the landlord sees an opportunity
for economic gain.

642 of 891


--- page 643 ---
2

We also argued for the increase to three months on the basis of internal consistency
within city policies. Currently, the city’s demolition and condo conversion ordinances
require three months of relocation assistance, whereas the requirement for Ellis Act,
substantial remodel and owner move-in evictions is only one month. From a public
policy perspective, this doesn’t make sense. When this same council member expressed
skepticism about the proposed increase to three months, we then asked whether the
condo conversion and demolition provisions should be reduced to one month. Of
course that is not what we want, but it underscores the disjunction that currently exists
among various city policies and the need to bring them into line.
Thank you for listening and for taking these thoughts into account. 
Best regards, 
Karyl Eldridge 
Vice Chair of One San Mateo 
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid
to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a
party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication.
643 of 891

--- page 644 ---
1
From: 
Sent: Thursday, April 3, 2025 2:05 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office 
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Opposing Proposed Housing Element Policies – A Plea for Fairness 
Dear Honorable Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I’m writing as a longtime resident and small property owner in San Mateo to respectfully oppose the proposed 
expansion of tenant protection policies being presented at the upcoming study session on April 21 (I will be 
out of the country then, so am writing instead). 
As a retired individual, the rental income from my property is not just helpful — it is essential to my livelihood. 
Like many small landlords in our community, I am not a large corporation with deep pockets. I rely on this 
income to make ends meet, and I do my best to treat my tenants fairly and with respect. 
It is disheartening to see policies continually shift in ways that assume landlords are the problem. Proposals like 
requiring relocation payments for tenants who have been in a unit for less than a year, or adding layers of 
bureaucracy like a rental registry, place significant burdens on small property owners — especially those of us 
who are retired and on fixed incomes. 
I understand the importance of protecting tenants from displacement, but why must that responsibility fall solely 
on the shoulders of housing providers? The ability to provide homes for our own children, or to make necessary 
improvements to aging properties, should not come with financial penalties. When the laws become so heavily 
weighted in one direction, it discourages people like me from continuing to offer housing at all. 
We are not the enemy. Most of us are responsible, compassionate landlords who value the tenants we serve. We 
want to be part of the solution, not treated as part of the problem. 
Please consider the unintended consequences of these proposals — especially for seniors, retirees, and families 
trying to build a future in San Mateo. I urge you to oppose these policy expansions and take a more balanced 
approach that respects both tenants and housing providers alike. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Cindee Graham 
Retired Millbrae Resident & San Mateo Housing Provider 
644 of 891

--- page 645 ---
1
 
From: 
Sent: Thursday, April 3, 2025 1:37 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Opposition to Proposed Tenant Protection Measures 
I am writing to express concerns regarding the proposed tenant protection measures, specifically the 
expansion of tenant protections, creation of a rental registry, and recommendations for policy changes 
on eviction and remodel-related tenant displacement. While the intent behind these measures is to 
ensure fairness and security for renters, there are several reasons why these proposals may not be 
beneficial in practice, and could have unintended consequences. 
1. Expansion of Tenant Protections and Relocation Payments:
Extending AB 1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for no-fault evictions for
tenants with less than one year of tenure raises significant concerns. While the idea is to provide
more protection for tenants, this provision may discourage landlords from offering rental
agreements to new tenants. Landlords could be hesitant to rent to new tenants due to the
increased financial burden and potential risk associated with having to pay relocation expenses if
a no-fault eviction is necessary. This could lead to fewer available rental units and a decrease in
housing supply, ultimately making housing even less affordable and accessible in the city.
Additionally, the financial impact of paying relocation fees for tenants who have only been in
place for a short time could disproportionately affect smaller landlords, who may struggle to bear
these costs.
2. Creation of a Rental Registry:
The creation of a rental registry to monitor rents, evictions, and tenant displacement citywide,
while seemingly beneficial for transparency, would likely impose significant costs on both the city
and property owners. The proposed system would require substantial taxpayer funds to support
staffing, the creation of new bureaucratic infrastructure, and the use of consultants. These
resources could be better utilized in addressing more immediate issues such as increasing
housing development or providing direct financial assistance to vulnerable populations.
645 of 891

--- page 646 ---
2
Furthermore, the increased administrative burden on landlords—particularly small property 
owners—could lead to unnecessary complexity and compliance costs, which may be passed on 
to tenants in the form of higher rents. 
3. Recommendations Regarding Substantial Remodel Exemptions and Right to Return: 
Requiring landlords to provide documentation when using the substantial remodel exemption and 
instituting a "Right to Return" policy for tenants displaced due to demolition or remodeling may 
create additional legal and logistical challenges. Landlords would face increased paperwork and 
bureaucracy, which may lead to delays and more complex processes for property improvements 
that are often necessary for maintaining the condition and safety of buildings. In some cases, 
these additional requirements could disincentivize investment in necessary upgrades and repairs, 
further exacerbating housing quality concerns. Additionally, implementing a Right to Return policy 
could limit landlords' ability to make timely decisions about their properties and negatively impact 
the efficiency of housing markets, leading to potential underutilization of spaces or even reduced 
housing stock if developers are discouraged from undertaking substantial remodels or new 
constructions due to regulatory uncertainty. 
4. Strengthened Enforcement and Penalty Structure for Landlords: 
While it is essential to ensure landlords follow the law, further strengthening enforcement penalty 
structures could disproportionately impact smaller landlords who may not have the resources to 
navigate complex regulations. The potential for increased penalties could create a chilling effect, 
where landlords become overly cautious and, as a result, reduce the number of rental units 
available or increase rents to cover potential penalties. Additionally, this might incentivize some 
landlords to exit the rental market altogether, which would reduce overall rental housing 
availability, further exacerbating affordability challenges. 
In conclusion, while the proposed measures aim to address important issues related to tenant 
protections, they could inadvertently reduce the availability of rental housing, raise costs for both 
tenants and landlords, and create significant administrative and regulatory burdens. Instead of imposing 
additional restrictions and costs, we encourage the city to explore other solutions that foster 
collaboration between tenants, landlords, and the city to promote affordable housing, improve housing 
quality, and ensure fair treatment for all parties involved. 
Thank you for considering these perspectives. 
 
Karen Vega 
 
  
 
646 of 891

--- page 647 ---
From:

Sent: Friday, April 4, 2025 3:04 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org
Subject: Study of Displacement Protections for Tenants

I’d like to speak at the study session relating to displacement protections for tenants. I’m a property
manager and an attorney practicing landlord/tenant law.

Please help me by giving me the facts on the following:

How many tenants in the city have lived there one year or less?

How many rental units are demolished or substantially remodeled each year?

How many rental units are there in the city?

How many units were there 1,2, 3 and 5 years ago?

How many housing providers are there in the city?

How many were there 1,2,3 and 5 years ago?

How many tenants in the City are evicted each year?

How many evictions in San Mateo County are evicted due to demolition or substantial
remodeling?

9. How much will it cost the city each year to staff a displacement protection department?

SNOAPWN>

10. What will staffing the unit cost the city long term when insurance and pensions are considered?

Timothy S. O’Hara

647 of 891


--- page 648 ---
-----Original Message-----

From:

Sent: Friday, April 4, 2025 7:35 AM

To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>;

Cc: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle
Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Government subsidies for rent is the solution

Hi Mr. Khojikian,

| understand there is to be a presentation of a "housing policy” for tenant protection on April 21, 2025 as per
this:

"The City of San Mateo housing staff will be making a presentation to the San Mateo City Council in a special
study session recommending that the city council "expand on state law" regarding tenant protects and anti-
displacement in the City of San Mateo through the Housing Element."

| am sending you data (scientific) which points out the solution to the people who rent in our community; and

it is NOT "tenant protection" as your City Staff is proposing through policies affecting housing providers.
KKK KKK KKK KKK KK KKK KKK KKK KK KK KKK KEKE KKK KKK KEK KKK KKK EKER KEK KKK KKK KKK KKK KEKE KKKKEKKKKEKE

KKK KKK KKK KKK KRK KK KEK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKKKE

In the first eleven months of 2024, San Mateo County saw 1655 residential unlawful detainer cases filed,
indicating a continuing trend of rising evictions, according to a report from Stanford Law School's Community
Law Clinic [1, 2].

Here's a more detailed breakdown:

Rising Eviction Numbers:
Eviction cases in San Mateo County have climbed past pre-pandemic levels, with a 35% increase from 2019.

2023 Data:
In 2023, a total of 1,510 eviction cases were filed in San Mateo County.

2024 Trend:

648 of 891


--- page 649 ---
2
Early data from 2024 suggests this trend is conƟnuing, with 1655 residenƟal unlawful detainer cases ﬁled in 
the ﬁrst eleven months.  
 
Rent Delinquency: 
Rent delinquency accounted for more than 85% of evicƟon cases in San Mateo County in 2023, a Stanford 
study found [4].  
 
San Mateo County Context: 
San Mateo County is known for having some of the highest rents in the naƟon.  
 
CLC Students: 
In 2024, CLC students under supervision represented approximately 20 tenant households in evicƟon maƩers 
in San Mateo County.  
 
What is the Tenant ProtecƟon Act in San Mateo County? 
 
The Basics: 
 
New laws provide an Annual Rent Cap (5% + Consumer Price Index) and Just Cause ProtecƟons for residenƟal 
tenancies Rent Cap will take eﬀect on 1/1/20 with a rent roll back to March 15, 2019 Just Cause ProtecƟon 
requires at least 12 months of tenancy These new laws do not apply to all housing. 
 
According to a new report from Stanford Law School’s Community Law Clinic, evicƟon cases in San Mateo 
County – where rents are among the highest in the naƟon – have climbed past pre-pandemic levels. In 2023, a 
total of 1,510 evicƟon cases were ﬁled – a 35% increase from 2019. And early data from 2024 suggest the 
trend is conƟnuing. The numbers echo naƟonal paƩerns, the report says. 
 
“EvicƟons in San Mateo County, 2019-2023,” conducted on behalf of the clinic’s clients Community Legal 
Services in East Palo Alto (CLSEPA) and the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County (Legal Aid SMC), analyzed 
evicƟon cases from the last full year before the pandemic through the ﬁrst full year aŌer the expiraƟon of 
COVID-era evicƟon moratoria. It oﬀers a rare and in-depth look at evicƟon paƩerns in the county where the 
law school’s Community Law Clinic represents low-income tenants. The top line ﬁnding: There has been an 
upƟck in evicƟons in San Mateo County, with the vast majority based on nonpayment of rent. 
 
The ﬁndings reinforce the need for increased rental assistance, according to Juliet Brodie, director of the 
Community Law Clinic. “We call it a housing crisis, but really it’s a rent crisis,” she says. “People aren’t being 
evicted because they refuse to pay rent. They’re being evicted because they can’t aﬀord to. The gap between 
wages and rents just keeps geƫng bigger.” 
******************************************************************************************
************************************* 
The soluƟon is RENTAL SUBSIDIES through the government.  SecƟon 8 has been around forever; but for "low 
income" mainly women and children.  Now, the criteria should be for individuals under the deﬁniƟon of "low 
income". 
 
In San Mateo County, Low Income is making less than $109,700 annually according to California Department of 
Housing and Community Development. 
 
This is the approach that is needed.  RENTAL SUBSIDIES 
649 of 891

--- page 650 ---
3
 
Rental subsidies would help the people more than "rent controls" on housing providers. 
 
Typically, housing providers don't raise the rent on good tenants because they don't want to lose them; and if 
they don't raise rents annually, these housing providers are actually renƟng "at below market rents." (Hence, 
subsidizing their good tenants). 
 
I also am opposed to Rental Registries and a new "dept" for Rental regulaƟon because we don't have money 
for this, and it would be a futher burden to my high Sewer and Property Taxes.   Also, the City will have to pay 
reƟrement beneﬁts to this new department's hires for years into the future.  We need to reign in spending, 
please.  We need to ﬁnish paying for things in progress (like our billion dollar infrastructure bill) ﬁrst. 
 
Have a great day and thank you for reading! 
 
Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S. 
UC Berkeley Neurobiology and Bacteriology (1974); UCSF School of DenƟstry (1978) Double Major 
650 of 891

--- page 651 ---
From:

Sent: Sunday, April 6, 2025 10:03 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: In Opposition to More Rent Control

Hi!

| don't live in San Mateo, but | was thinking of moving my 2 rental properties from Moss Beach (county land)
to the city of San Mateo. But if these new rent control policies are put into place, | will be moving them to
another city.

| was crushed during COVID (my tenant did not pay and did not qualify for rent relief-I'm out $60,000 including
the legal fees to get them out), so | feel beaten up already and wonder why my husband and | spend many of
our weekends working on these homes.

| feel that the state already has enough tenant protection laws. We need to get to the root of the problem by
building more housing! | will admit, though, that | have seen no data on whether tenant protections work, and
I'm sure there are some studies out there. If the studies show it works, then | will redact my statements. All
I'm telling you is how | feel as a landlord who tries to be good to my tenants and provide them with a good
place to live while having it as a retirement option later for my husband and me.

Thanks for the work you do.

Mary Beth Alexander

651 of 891


--- page 652 ---
From:

Sent: Monday, April 7, 2025 5:16 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Oppose new rent control measures in San Mateo

Dear respected city officials,

| am writing to express my opposition to the city of San Mateo adding new rent control
restrictions.

We are small, private, mom and pop property owners. We purchased two small
apartment buildings as an investment toward our retirement and have 10 total

units. These properties have taken a significant amount of time to generate income, 5-7
years, due to the high purchase costs and large mortgages. In addition to expected costs
associated with loan interest, repairs, updates, vacancies, recuperation from Covid, and
generally high cost of living in San Mateo, we are right now experiencing new skyrocketing
costs associated with water, energy, new San Mateo business taxes, balcony inspections,
and insurance premiums.

Market rents are not rising faster than our costs! Enough is enough.

Our buildings are already subject to California AB1482, which imposes a rent cap and
protects tenants rights, including relocation costs and eviction protections.

Please do not enact additional constraints on housing providers. Small property owners
cannot sustain more costs that will further exasperate our ability to provide quality
housing. Higher burdens on housing providers result in less resources to maintain our
buildings which, over time, degrades our neighborhoods.

As a San Mateo resident, | applaud efforts toward building more housing in the city. More
housing is critical to solving the housing crisis.

Alicia Woodfall-Jones

652 of 891


--- page 653 ---
From:

Sent: Tuesday, April 8, 2025 3:16 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: April 21 Study Session - Support for Strong Tenant Protections

Good afternoon,

My name is Amanda Chang and | am a staff member of Urban Habitat. | was born and raised in San
Mateo County and am a voter in District 1. | am writing to strongly encourage the city council to adopt the
policies recommended by the Our Home San Mateo campaign.These policies include: 1) Just cause for
eviction from Day One, 2) Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year, 3) Right to return after a
substantial remodel, 4) Increased relocation assistance, and 5) Creation of a rental data registry.

The above policies are concrete ways the council can act to protect families from the trauma of evictions
and increase the stability of their lives. Furthermore, passing these policies will bring San Mateo closer to
meeting its regional climate and housing goals as well as help unlock millions of dollars in regional funds
for the city through the Transit-Oriented Communities Policy.

In 2022, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) adopted the Transit-Oriented Communities
(TOC) Policy to ensure neighborhoods around transit stations and along transit corridors are places that
not only support transit ridership, but are places where Bay Area residents of all abilities, income levels,
and racial and ethnic backgrounds can live, work, and access services, such as education, childcare,
and healthcare.

San Mateo is a TOC Area, which means it is eligible for One Bay Area Grant (OBAG) program
transportation funding. The next round of funding is slated to begin in 2026 and will make available
hundreds of millions of dollars that the city relies on to maintain its public transit, roads, highways,
sidewalks, and bike lanes. In pursuit of compliance with this policy, San Mateo has already received over
$600,000 in funds from MTC to implement zoning changes and housing production policy development.
While San Mateo is already on its way to TOC compliance for zoning and housing production, TOC areas
are also required to adopt at least two tenant protection policies that go beyond state law.

To help jurisdictions pass effective tenant protections, MTC will soon be releasing model ordinances for
a number of the policies Our Home San Mateo has recommended. These model ordinances can help
reduce staff research time and make sure the City is staying in-step with other cities and counties in the
Bay Area.

653 of 891


--- page 654 ---
2
With powerful support from both the community and the region, there is no better time than now for San 
Mateo to pass the strongest tenant protections it can. 
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
 
Amanda 
 
--  
Amanda Chang (all pronouns) 
Program Manager of Equitable Development 
Urban Habitat 
2000 Franklin Street 
Oakland, CA 94612 
(510) 839-9510 (x303) 
http://urbanhabitat.org/ 
 
Read our new report, The Failure of For-Profit Affordable Housing — and How Tenants Are Organizing for Change and check out The People's Glossary in 
English, Spanish, and Vietnamese. 
654 of 891

--- page 655 ---
From: marylene notarianni

Sent: Tuesday, April 8, 2025 5:34 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: COMPLETELY OPPOSE TO INCREASE TENANTS PROTECTION - Let me tell you why?

Dear All,

I fully understand the intent to protect tenants, especially in cases where
certain property owners may overstep by imposing excessive charges, rent
hikes, or displaying disrespectful behavior. However, such instances are not
the norm, and the majority of property owners act with integrity. While it’s
important to maintain a balance, I believe the current regulations already
provide ample protection to tenants.

That said, I must express my firm opposition to the proposal of offering compensation, particularly for
tenants who are "not at fault." Allow me to share my personal experience. My business has a 70%
decline this year, and when my landlords decided to sell their property, I was given a 60-day notice. In
response, I followed the law and gave my own tenant a 60-day notice to vacate my property.
Throughout this process, I was always respectful to my tenants. For example, I allowed them to move
in six days before the lease contract began without charging them rent. Additionally, I did not raise the
rent for two years. I even moved into another rental property last year to accommodate them, which
incurred the cost of two moving expenses.

In the end, my tenant vacated the property on the final day of his 60 days notice, at 5:00 PM. A
week later, he requested compensation for being "not at fault." I found this request to be
highly unfair, especially considering the tenant's financial position. While his request was
within the legal framework of San Mateo County, I felt like an abuse of the system, particularly
since he was financially stable and had returned to his father’s estate in Tiburon.

As property owners, we are the ones paying the property taxes, taking on the risks of purchasing and

maintaming the property, and shouldering the costs of any damage or special assessments, particularly
with the current challenges posed by SB326 and rising fire insurance premiums. Increasing the

655 of 891


--- page 656 ---
2
relocation compensation for "No Fault" cases would be highly unjust, and this type of rule is not even 
existing in Europe and in France. 
For these reasons, I strongly urge you not to increase the compensation fee to one year for tenants 
who are "Not at Fault." The existing provisions should suffice, and imposing such a burden would be 
especially detrimental for those of us who are already financially struggling. I am completely opposed 
to this proposal. 
Thank you for your attention. 
656 of 891

--- page 657 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 9:00 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support Tenant Protections in San Mateo

Hello San Mateo Councilmembers, City Attorney, and policymakers,

As the Council considers ways in which to fulfill its commitment to expand tenant protections under AB 1482, Tenants
Together encourages you to make changes that will meaningfully enhance housing security for renters in the City of San
Mateo. As California’s statewide coalition for renters’ rights since 2008, we are well-versed in local and state tenant
law and policy. We wholeheartedly support the policy proposals brought by the Our Home San Mateo coalition in
advance of the April 21t meeting.

Renters in San Mateo comprise nearly half the population, and face some of the highest home prices and rents in the
nation. One in four pays more than 50 percent of their income on rent, leaving very little for other essential needs that
include food, health care, transportation, utilities and child care. The prospect of an economic recession and the
potential removal of federal supports like Medicaid, housing vouchers and SNAP benefits will only put more San Mateo
working families who rent at risk of eviction and homelessness.

Many of those most affected are workers whose contributions are essential to the functioning of the community—child
care workers, paramedics, home health aides, elementary school teachers, security guards, and retail clerks. If we
continue to hemorrhage the people who fill these critical jobs, the future vitality of San Mateo is at risk.

In the interest of protecting the well-being of San Mateo renters, and the future of the city itself, Tenants Together
encourages the city to adopt the following commonsense policies that have been proven to prevent homelessness in
scores of jurisdictions across California:

Just cause for eviction from Day One

Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
Right to return after a substantial remodel

Increased relocation assistance

Creation of a rental data registry

The above measures are concrete ways the council can act to protect families from homelessness and are critical to
fulfilling the obligations set forth in San Mateo’s housing element. Tenants Together encourages the council to move
with an appropriate sense of urgency to move them into law.

In solidarity,

Shanti Singh (she/her/ella)

657 of 891


--- page 658 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 10:51 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Opposing San Mateo Study Session on Rent Control

Good Afternoon Members of the San Mateo City Council, Mayor Newsom, City Manager Khojikian, City
Attorney Rasiah, and Housing Manager Horst,

My name is Rachel Salomon and | founded a property management and real estate brokerage company
about 18 months ago in San Mateo County. Our clients, who are owners of rental properties in the
county, are not wealthy, but have been able to build a net worth that is almost exclusively in their local
realestate. In some cases, these owners are not even cash flow positive on their properties because
their mortgages and property taxes are already so high, compounded by the fact that the homes are older
and need significant capital improvements to keep them habitable and safe for their tenants. In all
cases, Our Current client base owns only one rental property. Expanding on the tenant rights/protections
under AB1482 to include increased property taxes, relocation payments for No-fault evictions, and
mandating reporting will drive up the holding costs for those rental properties which will ultimately 1)
hurt the tenants who are renting the properties, and 2) motivate more owners to sell their properties
resulting in a decreased supply of rental units in San Mateo County.

lam empathetic to those who are directly impacted by the high market rents, and I'm also aware that
more and more residents of California are renting their primary place of residence. We believe a more
effective solution to affordable housing is not only to increase the supply, but to incentivize real estate
investors and developers to build more housing. We have seen time and again in the Bay Area,
developers and corporations get tax incentives to bring in jobs, but never to bring in housing, causing a
huge imbalance for the populations servicing those jobs. Increasing regulations on landlords will
ultimately make housing less affordable because the rental supply will decrease when landlords decide
it is no longer beneficial to own and operate rental properties from too many regulations. Tenants will be
forced to move farther away from their jobs simply to find rental housing, regardless of the cost.

What the city should be considering is howto increase the number of rental units. specifically with

and condominium construction. Adding more regulation and increasing bureaucracy will only hurt the
people at the bottom who are ultimately the people you are setting out to help.

PMI Redwood Realty has informed its clients of this meeting and what is proposed. Additionally,
representatives from our company will be attending the presentation on 4/21 to learn more about the

1

658 of 891


--- page 659 ---
2
City of San Mateo Housing's proposals.  From what has been shared so far, we respectfully disagree with 
the proposed approach and will voice concerns if given the opportunity.  Have a wonderful afternoon. 
Sincerely,  
Rachel Salomon 
-- 
Rachel Salomon 
 
659 of 891

--- page 660 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 10:57 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>;
akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org

Subject: Oppose San Mateo Study Session on Rent Control

Good Afternoon Members of the San Mateo City Council, Mayor Newsom, City Manager Khojikian, City
Attorney Rasiah, and Housing Manager Horst,

My name is Reese Shulman and | founded a property management and real estate brokerage company
about 18 months ago in San Mateo County. Our clients, who are owners of rental properties in the
county, are not wealthy, but have been able to build a net worth that is almost exclusively in their local
realestate. In some cases, these owners are not even cash flow positive on their properties because
their mortgages and property taxes are already so high, compounded by the fact that the homes are older
and need significant capital improvements to keep them habitable and safe for their tenants. In all
cases, Our Current client base owns only one rental property. Expanding on the tenant rights/protections
under AB1482 to include increased property taxes, relocation payments for No-fault evictions, and
mandating reporting will drive up the holding costs for those rental properties which will ultimately 1)
hurt the tenants who are renting the properties, and 2) motivate more owners to sell their properties
resulting in a decreased supply of rental units in San Mateo County.

lam empathetic to those who are directly impacted by the high market rents, and I'm also aware that
more and more residents of California are renting their primary place of residence. We believe a more
effective solution to affordable housing is not only to increase the supply, but to incentivize real estate
investors and developers to build more housing. We have seen time and again in the Bay Area,
developers and corporations get tax incentives to bring in jobs, but never to bring in housing, causing a
huge imbalance for the populations servicing those jobs. Increasing regulations on landlords will
ultimately make housing less affordable because the rental supply will decrease when landlords decide
it is no longer beneficial to own and operate rental properties from too many regulations. Tenants will be
forced to move farther away from their jobs simply to find rental housing, regardless of the cost.

What the city should be considering is how to increase the number of rental units, specifically with 3
bedrooms, and how to create more opportunity for entry-level home-ownership, like town-home and
condominium construction. Adding more regulation and increasing bureaucracy will only hurt the
people at the bottom who are ultimately the people you are setting out to help.

PMI Redwood Realty has informed its clients of this meeting and what is proposed. Additionally,

1

660 of 891


--- page 661 ---
representatives from our company will be attending the presentation on 4/21 to learn more about the
City of San Mateo Housing's proposals. From what has been shared so far, we respectfully disagree with
the proposed approach and will voice concerns if given the opportunity. Have a wonderful afternoon.

Sincerely,

Reese Shulman

Lt yt

661 of 891


--- page 662 ---
----- Original Message-----

From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 11:51 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Against extension of AB 1482

Hello City Council:
| strongly oppose your proposals for San Mateo County.

As a San Mateo County property owner and potential landlord, | completely oppose your proposals to be
heard on April 21.

The city council will hear the public on "expanding on state law"
regarding tenant protections and anti-displacement in the City of San Mateo through the Housing Element.

These are the tenant protections | oppose:

Expand tenant protections in a local ordinance to "extend" AB 1482 provisions to require tenant relocation
payments for No Fault evictions for those with tenure less than one year for up to three months.

Create a Rental Registry - Monitor rents, evictions, and tenant displacement citywide. Staff recommendation to
city council to budget taxpayer expenditure increases for staff, bureaucracy, and consultant costs.

Make recommendations to the City Council for establishing tenant protection policies that include the
requirement of documentation from landlords who use the substantial remodel exemption to evict tenants
and a Right to Return policy for tenants displaced from homes due to demolition or substantial remodels.
Amend the Code to strengthen enforcement penalty structure for landlords.

Best,

Dede Heiman
San Mateo County Resident

662 of 891


--- page 663 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 4:52 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

I am against Rent Control for the City of San Mateo,
Sincerely,
Barbara Maniscalco

663 of 891


--- page 664 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 5:07 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

Dear Rachel Horst,

I am against Rent Control for the City of San Mateo.

Sincerely,

Barbara Maniscalco

664 of 891


--- page 665 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 10, 2025 2:47 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: AB 1482

As the council considers vital avenues to expand protections under AB 1482, I strongly urge you to
enact changes to enhance housing security for renters in San Mateo. Nearly half of San Mateo’s
population are renters, and many are living on the edge due to crippling rent prices. Shockingly, one
in four renters allocates over 50 percent of their income to housing, leaving barely enough for
essential needs like food, healthcare, transportation, utilities, and childcare. The outlook for the next
four years is concerning, as there are discussions about potential cuts to Medicaid, housing vouchers,
and SNAP benefits—critical lifelines for low-income families. In a climate where the needs of our most
vulnerable community members are constantly at risk, it is imperative to shield renters from the
devastating costs and emotional turmoil associated with eviction. Stable and secure housing is not
just a luxury but a fundamental right that enables families to thrive. I passionately urge you to
support the proposals put forward by the coalition of organizations “Our Home San Mateo,” which
aim to fortify housing security for renters in these uncertain times. Together, we can take impactful
steps to ensure that every resident in San Mateo has a safe place to call home.

Sincerely,

Rev Dawn Wallace

665 of 891


--- page 666 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 10, 2025 4:28 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support for renter protections

Dear Mayor Newsom, City Council Members and Staff,

| am writing to express my personal support of renter protections in your city. When | was mayor of
Burlingame, | worked closely with renters who were being evicted from their homes and managed to
persuade a few building owners to give them more time to vacate the premises in some cases. But it
was heartbreaking to see piles of possessions on sidewalks left by renters who had no time to find a
new home. | don't need to tell you how many of these people are essential workers who make life
better for everyone.

Sustainable San Mateo County's Sustainability Ideas Bank offers some renter protections that have
been successfully adopted in other cities. Just go to the dropdown menu in the Category field and
search for "Affordable Housing." You'll find solutions for Mandatory Rent Registry, Minimum Lease
Terms and Rent Stabilization, with contact info for some policymakers who can answer your
questions.

Thanks for your consideration.
Sincerely,

Terry

Terry Nagel

666 of 891


--- page 667 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 10, 2025 5:02 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Our Home San Mateo

Dear Sir and Madam:

Please adopt the five policies proposed by Our Home San Mateo. | live in an RV in an

RV park that has raised my rent from $975 to $2000 in the past 10 years. | have not had
adequate increases in salary to cover these increases. | soon will face retirement and the
limited income from Social Security that brings. Please help to protect older, single
women like me from the trauma of eviction and the terrible feelings of insecurity about
rising rents forcing us onto the streets.

Thank you!

Chase Montara

Love becomes poor and enters the darkness
that we might become rich and live in the light. ~ Richard Rohr

667 of 891


--- page 668 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 10, 2025 5:59 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Please read

Dear City Council.

Please keep open the options suggested by OUR HOME SAN MATEO.

Renters need protection from owners who care nothing about their
Tenants’ by having unjust evictions.

Thank you,
Kathryn Shea
Sent from my iPad

668 of 891


--- page 669 ---
Sustainable
San Mateo County

Economy. Equity. Environment.

BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Chair

Terry Nagel

Vice Chair

Kirsten Keith
Secretary

Gail Lee
Treasurer

Laura Larkin
Members

Bo Baney
Veronica Escamez
Valerie Fox Carlos
George Kreitem
Georgi LaBerge
Barbara McHugh
Russ Miller
Melissa Rohlfs
William Schulte

ADVISORY BOARD
Bryan Beck

Kaia Eakin

Chris Garrett

Ricki McGlashan
Mark Moulton

Kan Parthiban

STAFF

Executive Director
Sarah Hubbard
Executive Assistant
Jill Reed
Communications
& Outreach Lead
Mollie Carter
Program Manager
Simona Vallone

3182 Campus Drive, #153, San Mateo, CA 94403
info@sustainablesanmateo.org
www.sustainablesanmateo.org

San Mateo City Council
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

April 11, 2025

Dear Mayor Newsom and Councilmembers,

Sustainable San Mateo County (SSMC) appreciates the opportunity to provide
input on renter protection measures being proposed by Our Home San Mateo.
Their efforts to prevent displacement and keep San Mateo renters in their homes
align with our mission to promote long-term sustainability and equity in the region.

As shown in our Sustainability Dashboard, approximately half of San Mateo
households are renters. Renter protection solutions—such as just cause for
eviction, limits on no-fault evictions, the right to return after remodels, relocation
assistance and a rental data registry—can help prevent displacement, increase
transparency and promote more resilient communities. SSMC’s Sustainability
Ideas Bank highlights several local policy tools that support renter stability.

While SSMC does not take formal positions on specific city ordinances, we provide
research and promote solutions that align with our mission. Renter protections are
a key strategy for addressing the housing insecurity that disproportionately affects
low-income households and essential workers—those most likely to face long
commutes if displaced, thereby increasing vehicle miles traveled and undermining
local climate goals.

We commend the City of San Mateo for exploring policy approaches that
acknowledge the intersection of housing, equity and sustainability. SSMC
welcomes continued dialogue and remains a resource for data-driven strategies
that support a more resilient San Mateo.

Sincerely,

yeh Y=

Sarah Hubbard
Executive Director
Sustainable San Mateo County

Our federal tax identification number is 48-1265207. SSMC is a 501(c)(3) organization with tax-exempt status.

669 of 891


--- page 670 ---
From:

Sent: Friday, April 11, 2025 12:52 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Expand renter protections under AB1482

Dear Members of the City Council,

| am writing to encourage you to adopt the very reasonable five policies proposed by Our Home San Mateo.
These are concrete ways you can act to protect families and children from the trauma of eviction and increase
stability in their lives.

Please remember that nearly half the population of San Mateo rent their homes and that one in four families
pay 50% or more of their income in rent. In the current economic and political environment reality, the
security of families that rent will certainly become even more tenuous. You are in a position to demonstrate
genuine care for the well being of San Mateo residents by supporting these very sensible protections.

| am a concerned San Mateo resident of 25 years who happens to rent.

Respectfully,
Diane Fijelstad

670 of 891


--- page 671 ---
From:

Sent: Friday, April 11, 2025 2:25 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akhojkian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support for Renter Protections

Dear City Council Members,

| am a longtime San Mateo resident and | am concerned about keeping San Mateo a place where
people of all income levels can thrive. So as you consider ways in which to expand protections
under AB 1482, | encourage you to make changes that will meaningfully enhance housing security for
renters in the City of San Mateo.

According to multiple sources, renters in San Mateo comprise nearly half of our population, and with
the exceedingly high rents in the city, many of them lead highly tenuous lives. One in four pays more
than 50 percent of their income on rent, leaving very little for other essential needs that include food,
health care, transportation, utilities and child care. Furthermore, there is strong reason to expect that
in the coming four years, they will be subjected to takeaways that make life increasingly difficult for
them. Already there is talk of assaults upon Medicaid, housing vouchers and SNAP benefits, all of
which are vital supports for people of lower income. In an environment such as this, where the needs
of our more vulnerable community members are so readily compromised, there is ever more reason
to keep renters from being subjected to the cost and trauma they face when evicted from their homes.

Stable and secure housing is fundamental to the ability of families to thrive. Please support the
proposals set forth by the coalition of organizations called “Our Home San Mateo” to help increase
housing security for renters in a regrettably insecure time.

Thank you for your consideration of these important proposals from the Our Home San Mateo
coalition.

671 of 891


--- page 672 ---
2
Nancy Schneider 
672 of 891

--- page 673 ---
From: Tom Tealdi

Sent: Friday, April 11, 2025 4:10 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Landlord Rights - April 21 upcoming meeting

Re: New Rent Control Measures

As a San Mateo property owner | oppose and say NO to:
Rent Control

Vacancy Taxes, and

Any Added Taxpayer Expense

YOU NEED TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF LANDLORDS RIGHTS!

673 of 891


--- page 674 ---
From:

Sent: Friday, April 11, 2025 8:42 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Protect our renters

On April 21 the city council will consider options for fulfilling its commitment to expand protections
under AB 1482. | am writing to encourage the council to adopt policies that will have a meaningful impact
on the housing security of renters in San Mateo. Specifically, (name of organization) supports the policy
proposals that have been set forth by the “Our Home San Mateo” coalition.

The City of San Mateo is known to have some of the highest housing costs—both home prices and
rents—in the entire nation. Furthermore, the city’s housing element says that rents increased 75% ina
period of 10 years. In the face of increasing rents and wages that nowhere near keep pace, many San
Mateo renters live paycheck to paycheck, struggling to keep food on the table, pay their utility bills,
clothe their children, and make the rent. They live in a highly fragile state and are at risk of being
displaced.

Many of those most affected are workers whose contributions are essential to the functioning of the
community—child care workers, paramedics, home health aides, elementary school teachers, security
guards, and retail clerks. If we continue to hemorrhage the people who fill these critical jobs, the future
vitality of San Mateo is at risk.

In the interest of protecting the well-being of San Mateo renters, and the future of the city itself, |
encourage the city to take bold action to keep renters in their homes.

674 of 891


--- page 675 ---
From:

Sent: Saturday, April 12, 2025 10:08 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject:

Good Afternoon Members of the San Mateo City Council, Mayor Newsom, City Manager
Khojikian, City Attorney Rasiah, and Housing Manager Horst,

| am an owner of a rental property in San Mateo County and I'm deeply concerned about the
proposals that are to be discussed at the San Mateo City Council meeting on 4/21/25 ina
special study session led by the city's Housing Staff. In general, homes in this area are older
and the cost to maintain them is extremely high, and rises each year with the cost of labor
and materials rising exponentially. Additionally, the cost of homeowners insurance has risen
and is projected to rise even more in the future with all of the fires that have occurred in
California over the past half decade. The guidelines that have been proposed will ultimately
increase my holding costs by requiring specific reporting that will likely be annual if not more
frequently, expecting homeowners to pay for databases and staff salaries with increased
property taxes, and require that | pay for my tenants to relocate if | want to take back control
of my property to make necessary upgrades and improvements to my aging property.

If the goal of these proposals is to create a better tenant experience or make renting a home
more affordable, then the proposed measures are falling woefully short. They may be
addressing some issues in San Mateo, but the ultimate problem is that there is simply not
enough housing supply for everyone who works here. The city should be looking for ways to
address this shortage, and not punish the landlords that are currently supplying

housing. Actions that would benefit the broader community might include:

1) Removing the red tape around construction to increase the supply of homes.

2) Incentivise owners of single family rental homes to convert properties into multi-family.
3) Woo developers who clear the path for more homeownership.

4) Require that new apartment developments meet the needs of families by requiring more
units be at least 3 bedrooms.

675 of 891


--- page 676 ---
2
What the city of San Mateo should be focusing it's housing efforts on is how to increase 
the number of rental units and not enacting costly policies against landlords.  The 
outcome of this will be increased rents and reduced supply. 
Regards, 
Natalie Thanash 
676 of 891

--- page 677 ---
From:

Sent: Sunday, April 13, 2025 9:09 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex
Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Renter Protections

Dear Council,

| encourage the council to adopt the five policies proposed by Our Home San Mateo. These are concrete
ways you can act to protect families from the trauma of eviction and increase the stability of their lives.

Regards,

Ted McKinnon

677 of 891


--- page 678 ---
From:

Sent: Sunday, April 13, 2025 12:18 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Adopt "Our Home San Mateo" policy changes

| am writing to encourage the city council to adopt the policy changes set forth by the “Our Home San
Mateo.”These changes are focused on preventing evictions and helping to keep San Mateo renters in
their homes. Renters comprise almost half (48%) of the households in San Mateo

Eviction can be a life-changing event that does families serious harm, undermining their prospects for
years to come. It is Known to impact both physical and emotional health, and for families with limited
resources, the costs involved can send them over a financial cliff. Many of those most affected are
workers whose contributions are essential to the functioning of the community—child care workers,
paramedics, home health aides, elementary school teachers, security guards, and retail clerks.

Cathy Baird

member, Peninsula for Everyone
member, Showing Up for Racial Justice (SURJ) San Mateo

678 of 891


--- page 679 ---
ooo+ Original Message-----

From:

Sent: Sunday, April 13, 2025 1:14 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: High Cost of Rent in the City of San Mateo

Dear San Mateo City Councilors,

One out of every four renter residents of San Mateo pays more than half of their take-home pay on rent, leaving very
little for other essential needs that include food, health care, transportation, utilities and child care that is a necessity for
job holders often holding down two jobs in order to get by. These families are on the edge of potential homelessness,
and "camping" on city property and in the parks.

When | was a fresh-faced young man some decades ago, out on his own for the first time, just out of college and moving
into my very first studio apartment, | recall that either by news report on NPR or perhaps in another source of advice
that | read regarding personal budget matters, the advice was that it would be best that you would spend no more that
30% of you take-home pay for rent (or mortgage). If you did so, you'd have sufficient funds to pay for groceries, utilities,
other bills, and a little in your pockets to spend on having fun -- and some money to save in the bank for "rainy days."
The policies that are your responsibility and more specifically the rules that you are in the perfect position to enact
simply in need to protect these vulnerable residents from being evicted, and having no roof over their heads and having
children unable to attend school.

Were | in your position of authority, | might assuage the concerns of those landlords only a small number of apartments
by perhaps setting some limits in the rules. Perhaps it would be something akin to if they own four single-family units
(not apartment complexes), those landlords would be able to receive some dollar amount of recompense, funded by
being taken out of city parking meter revenues.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Cordially,

Pat Willard

Founder, Director,

Peninsula Anti-Racism Coalition

679 of 891


--- page 680 ---
2
Peninsula AnƟ-Racism CoaliƟon (PARC), a research- and data-driven advocacy group needs your help gathering more 
data by asking you and your network to respond to its survey of residents of San Mateo County's diverse communiƟes 
regarding your familiarity with mobile mental health crisis response services. This short survey would take about 1 
minute of your Ɵme to complete as you click this URL: 
hƩps://forms.gle/Tf47seWEiGaHzA2i8 
PARC will share the results with our San Mateo County governing leaders and Behavioral Health Services for their 
ediﬁcaƟon, and support of mental health services. And thank you. Much appreciated.  
680 of 891

--- page 681 ---
----- Original Message-----
From:
Sent: Monday, April 14, 2025 7:36 PM
To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom @cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz
Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-
Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>;

; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst
<rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; Jennifer Chen <jchen@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: There are "Open" Wait list at several MIDPEN project housing

Hi City Manager and City Council,

MidPen Non Profit (550 employees) has several "Open" Wait Lists properties right here on the peninsula.
Perhaps Legal Aid is not aware of this; but if | was working at Legal Aid , | would definitely help clients get on
these wait lists as a remedy for their displacement. These properties are very nicely built and accept below

market rents.

This would help people more than the "rent control" policies you are seeking to increase in scope against
housing providers.

The remedy is not more rent control. The remedy is finding these vacant properties and FILLING THEM.

No landlord wants a vacancy---even Mid Pen, the largest property management company I've ever seen!

The remedy is to help people get housing by subsidizing rents.

Here is a link to view:

https://www.midpen-housing.org/find-housing/

(Please copy and paste into your browser to view the available properties)

This proves that the core problem is not "rent control" in that there are numerous vacancies for displaced
tenants (displaced for whatever reason, and the number one reason is inability to pay the rent). If tenants
were subsidized, they could pay the rent and not get displaced. (Happy tenant able to pay their rent = Happy
landlord, NO VACANCY!)

The website also mentions that this organization was a vision of HP Founders, David Packard and Bill Hewlett :

"An Enlightened Beginning to a New Industry"

681 of 891


--- page 682 ---
2
MidPen was founded in 1970 when David Packard, Bill HewleƩ, and a small group of community and business 
leaders came together to address the racial discriminaƟon and inequitable access to housing in the Bay Area 
and establish a self-supporƟng organizaƟon with a clear social mission. Driven by the belief that there had to 
be a beƩer way to build aﬀordable housing, MidPen ushered in a new paradigm: beauƟfully designed and well-
managed housing built near good schools, jobs and transit. The kinds of communiƟes that make residents and 
neighbors proud and revitalize ciƟes and neighborhoods. 
As a 15 year Alumni volunteer of the Monterey Bay Aquarium (3600 volunteer Hours),   I saw what good things 
philanthrophy can do.   The Packard Family made this  $50 million giŌ 40 years ago.  A few years later, 
they  then made an addiƟonal $50 million giŌ to add a second building to the aquarium.    Total square footage 
= 322,000 sq. Ō. 
Headed by Julie Packard, the Monterey Bay Aquarium has become the leader in conservaƟon and the number 
one aquarium in the United States.   
This aquarium is the "driving force" behind many policies in CA  from prohibiƟng the harvesƟng of shark ﬁns 
for Chinese "shark ﬁn soup" (then, throwing the carcasses back into the ocean) to eliminaƟng plasƟc polluƟon 
sources such as plasƟc straws and plasƟc bags.  PlasƟcs in the environment never "break down"; they break 
apart into smaller pieces called microplasƟcs which takes decades to ﬁnally degrade, if at all. 
The aquarium sets policy based upon "scienƟﬁc study" of researchers and scienƟﬁc data from their research 
arm, MBARI )Monterey Bay Aquarium Research InsƟtute, funded by the Packards. 
David Packard's vision for equitable housing, too,  was years ahead of his Ɵme. He was a true visionary ahead 
of his Ɵme with the ﬁnancial means to make things happen. 
We are dependent upon the generosity of these billionaire philantrophists in our society who are soluƟon 
driven rather than policy dependent. 
Mr. Packard's "Enlightened Beginning  (MIDPEN HOUSING) to a new industry" is the soluƟon to the rental crisis 
and not addiƟonal policies focusing on more "rent control." 
Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S. 
682 of 891

--- page 683 ---
From:

Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2025 8:24 AM

To: Zachary Dahl <zdah|@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fw: San Mateo Study April 21

From:
Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2025 8:18 AM
To:

Cc: zdah|@cityofsanmteo.org <zdahl@cityofsanmteo.org>
Subject: San Mateo Study April 21

| suggest that the Council should be informed of the following facts before making its decision relating to
new landlord/tenant legislation:

In 2023 there were approximately 70 eviction cases filed relating to tenants in the City of San Mateo. Of
these only 7.4% or 5.18 were “no-fault” actions. Of these only 20.1% or 1.04 went to judgment. (Source:
Stanford Law School Study).

“No fault” evictions include the categories of (1) owner intending to take the rental off market, (2) owner
intending personally to move in or to have a family member move in, or (3) owner intending to demolish

or significantly remodel the unit. (California Civil Code Section 1946.2(b)(2)).

The city cannot say how many rental units were demolished or significantly remodeled in 2023. See
Development Director Zachary Dahl’s April 11 e-mail response to my questions.

683 of 891


--- page 684 ---
2
Mr. Dahl responded that there are approximately 20,000 rental units in the City but he has no records of 
how many owners of rental units or property managers there are. 
How many owners/managers is the City ready to inconvenience and tax with a new ordinance requiring 
registration and fees, and how much is the City ready to increase taxes to pay for new staffing to 
administer and enforce new regulations?  Will the citizen/taxpayers be best served by a new ordinance 
that may possibly prevent fewer than 1.04 tenants from being evicted each year? 
Timothy S. O’Hara 
Realtor ® Property Manager and Attorney 
 
P.S. I am not a resident of the city and do not manage any properties in the city.  For many years I have 
handled hundreds of evictions in the County of San Mateo. 
684 of 891

--- page 685 ---
From:
Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2025 1:08 PM
Subject: United Way Bay Area Support for One San Mateo Tenant Protections Policies

Dear San Mateo City Council and Staff,
My name is Jess Hudson and |! am the Public Policy Manager for United Way Bay Area.

On April 21 the city council will consider options for fulfilling its commitment to expand protections under AB
1482. | am writing on behalf of United Way Bay Area to encourage the council to adopt policies that will have a
meaningful impact on the housing security of renters in San Mateo. Specifically, United Way Bay Area supports the
policy proposals that have been set forth by the “Our Home San Mateo” coalition. These policies include:

e Just cause for eviction from Day One

e Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
e Rightto return after a substantial remodel

e Increased relocation assistance

e Creation of a rental data registry

The City of San Mateo is known to have some of the highest housing costs—both home prices and rents—in the
entire nation. Furthermore, the city’s housing element says that rents increased 75% in a period of 10 years. In the
face of increasing rents and wages that nowhere near keep pace, many San Mateo renters live paycheck to
paycheck, struggling to keep food on the table, pay their utility bills, clothe their children, and make the rent. They
live in a highly fragile state and are at risk of being displaced.

Residents who experience a no-fault eviction are entitled to just one month's rent under AB 1482, but we know that
residents will require first and last month's rent and security deposit in order to move into a new unit- assuming
one is available within the city in their price range. This leaves residents vulnerable to periods of homelessness or
housing instability, increased their risk of losing their job, and the loss of community ties like neighbors and school
placements for children. A 2017 UC Berkeley Study of San Mateo County renters found one in three San Mateo
residents experienced some period of homelessness or marginal housing in the two years following their eviction
and experienced multiple negative impacts to their safety, wellbeing, and employment opportunities.

Many of those most affected are workers whose contributions are essential to the functioning of the community—
childcare workers, paramedics, home health aides, elementary school teachers, security guards, and retail clerks.
If we continue to hemorrhage the people who fill these critical jobs, the future vitality of San Mateo is at risk.

In the interest of protecting the well-being of San Mateo renters, and the future of the city itself, United Way Bay
Area encourages the city to take bold action to keep renters in their homes. Strong anti-displacement policies

1

685 of 891


--- page 686 ---
2
maintain the fabric of the community, keep San Mateo students in their schools, and prevent needless housing 
instability and the poverty risk outcomes that are associated with it.  
In Community, 
Jess Hudson (She/Her/Hers)
Manager, Public Policy
United Way Bay Area | uwba.org
415.808.4304
550 Kearny Street  | Suite 510 | San Francisco, CA 94108
Give. Advocate. Volunteer.
Follow Us On Social Media | HERE
686 of 891

--- page 687 ---
From:

Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2025 3:21 PM

To: Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>;
aloraine@cityofsanmateo.com; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst
<rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>;

Subject: Proposed Tenant Protections

April 15, 2025

Mayor Newsom and Members of the City Council:

We ask that you not move forward with any of the expanded tenant protections being
proposed by staff as they are very one-sided and will have a punishing effect on
housing providers in this community who are already laboring under a very challenging

financial environment.

Our costs for repairs are skyrocketing due to the demand for labor and

materials. Moreover, many of us will likely be required to spend tens of thousands of
dollars to convert our buildings to electric power in the near future to comply with
recently adopted mandates which will not save us much, if any, money as our

residents are the ones who consume the majority of the power on our properties to

1

687 of 891


--- page 688 ---
2
heat their residences, warm their water, and prepare their meals.  Finally, and very 
significantly, our insurance costs are skyrocketing and the coverage provided is 
shrinking.  This translates into us needing to spend much more money on premiums 
and incur higher expenses that were previously covered by our insurers.  
Tenant protections are burdensome and add to the expense of providing 
housing.  Expanding the tenant protections provided by State law will only amplify the 
challenges faced by housing providers and will not increase the supply of much 
needed low-income housing.
Most housing providers will agree that the high cost of housing is indeed a vexing 
problem that needs to be resolved.  To place the financial burden of resolving this 
problem on one set of constituents is both unfair and unwise.  
Instead, we ask that you stop this assault on those of us who provide housing and 
instead work with all the stakeholders in the housing community to craft a solution that 
takes into account the needs of all.
Brian and Ann Ponty
San Mateo Housing Providers
688 of 891

--- page 689 ---
From:

Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2025 8:17 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Please Adopt Our Home San Mateo's 5 policies

On April 21 the San Mateo city council will discuss ways the city can fulfill its commitment to expand
tenant protections under AB1482. As a member of Peninsula Solidarity Cohort, | am pained that low- and
even moderate-income renters in our community live in constant fear that their rent will rise beyond their
ability to pay or that they may be evicted. | support the policies Our Home San Mateo has put forth to
grant them some measure of stability in this terrible housing market.

The city's housing element states that rents have increased 75% in ten years. | do not believe that
landlords' costs have justified this level of increase, as many of them have the advantage of lower taxes,
owing to Proposition 13. In protecting the interests of landlords at the expense of renters, we are stating
that money is more important than human welfare. Is this serving the interest of San Mateo at large, a city
losing its essential workers, or just the interest of a vocal minority?

The policies advocated by Our Home San Mateo are reasonable and measured, and they are intended to
promote the overall health of our community. Please support them!

Sincerely,
Krista Hanson

689 of 891


--- page 690 ---
ooo+ Original Message-----
From:
Sent: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 7:21 AM
To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash
<Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine @cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>;
; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: "Tenant Protection"

Dear City Manager and City Council,

Seriously, we need to drop the use of "tenant protection" and start using "tenant/landlord" collaboration if we are to
come to a solution.

Tenants enter into a "partnership" through a residential lease which is their agreement with the terms and conditions
specified. If terms and conditions are not met, it is a breach of contract.

The unprecedented Pandemic addressed the need for tenant protection as a PUBLIC HEALTH MEASURE to stop the
spread of a killer virus, Covid-19.

Further extension of this temporary, emergency executive order (SM County and Federal Health Departments) is an
abusive use of AB 1482.

The use of the phrase"tenant protection" connotates a negative image which is a one sided picture of the situation. If
you want to use this phrase, then, there has to be similarly, "landlord protection", (primarily, LOSS of income to pay the
mortgage, property insurance, utilities-water, garbage, repair, book keeping, and management bills, AND the risk of

facing foreclosure due to non payment of mortages through loss of rents).

Please consider dropping the use of these types of phrases, "tenant protection". This is negative terminology and
depressive.

There are not mass evictions happening like the mass deaths that occurred during Covid-19 that actually required
"protective measures."

Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.

690 of 891


--- page 691 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 8:49 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Peninsula Solidarity Cohort <peninsulasolidaritycohort@gmail.com>

Subject: April 21 study session

Importance: High

i tind
ey,
ied PENINSULA SOLID

April 14, 2025
Dear Council Members,

On behalf of the 40+ interfaith leaders in the Peninsula Solidarity Cohort, we thank you for your
service to the community of San Mateo. At this time of uncertainty and instability in our country and
around the world, local leadership matters more than ever to secure safety and stability for our
residents. As you consider expanding tenant protections under AB 1482, we urge you to support
proposals that will increase housing security and reduce the trauma of eviction and displacement.

As faith leaders serving a wide range of communities within our county, we know that people are
hurting and afraid. Already the City of San Mateo has some of the highest housing costs in the
country, with rents increasing by some 75% in ten years, far outpacing wage increases. Nearly half of
San Mateo residents rent their homes, including many essential workers who are forced to spend so
much on rent they have little left for other basic needs like food, health care, clothing, transportation,
utilities and childcare. In one of the wealthiest counties in the country, it is unconscionable that so
many of our residents live so close to the edge, chronically at risk of eviction and displacement. And
now, with the federal government threatening to strip away Medicaid, housing vouchers and SNAP
benefits, low-income residents are at even greater risk.

691 of 891


--- page 692 ---
2
Secure and stable housing is critical for the well-being of individuals and families, and it’s critical for a 
thriving community as well. Out of our shared concern for the well-being of our beloved San Mateo 
community and all who dwell in it, we urge you to support the proposals delineated by the “Our Home 
San Mateo” coalition.   
Together in service to our community, 
Rev. Dr. Penny Nixon, PSC Co-Director 
Rev. Dr. Marlyn Bussey, PSC Co-Director 
Rev. Dr. Tovis Page, PSC Program Director 
Rabbi Rebecca Hecht, PSC Planning Committee Member 
692 of 891

--- page 693 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 11:13 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce:

Subject: Tenant Protections, April 21 Study Session Agenda

April 16, 2025

Mayor Robert Newsom

Deputy Mayor Loraine

Council Member Cwirko-Godycki
Council Member Fernandez
Council Member Diaz Dash

Subject: San Mateo Climate Action Team supports Tenant Protections for our city’s renters.
Dear Mayor and Council

We join many other organizations and individuals in San Mateo in asking the City Council to adopt
strong policy enhancements, in the form of an ordinance that will provide greater security to tenants.

Housing is a climate issue, it is a right, and because there are insufficient numbers of housing units in
San Mateo, our workers, teachers, care givers, and so many others are forced to endure long,
tortuous commutes.

We recognize the capital investment of property owners, that many scrimp and save just to be able to
create income property, and that many property owners have very limited holdings. But we also
recognize that an even greater burden is placed on renters forced to pay a major portion of their
income on housing.

Housing is a climate issue!

We support these five key components of tenant protection:

1. Just cause protections from day one. Current law provides a small amount of such
protection to tenants, but only after most of them have been tenants of the property for more
than 12 months. The cities of San Jose, Hayward, and Alameda have adopted day one
protections.

2. Prohibit no-fault evictions during the school year. The life of most children revolves around
their school activities. The trauma caused by loss of connection to friends, adult mentors, and

1

693 of 891


--- page 694 ---
2
activities, especially in the middle of the school year, is unnecessary. If the no fault eviction 
could wait until the end of the year, children will be better protected. 
3. Provide the right to return after substantial remodel. Current law allows a landlord to evict
a tenant for “substantial remodel” of a property, but no right to return, even at a higher
rent.  We support policy changes that create a right to return at a reasonable rent.
4. Increase relocation payments to the tenant, after just cause eviction for substantial
remodel. The City already requires three months’ relocation assistance for condo conversions
and demolitions. Please create consistency, which has the added benefit of providing the
displaced tenant an adequate compensation for moving, which is most often very expensive.
5. Create a rental registry to generate data and track compliance. A rental registry is a
valuable asset for the Community, Staff and the Council. More than 30 years ago, a group in
San Mateo County developed a means of measuring how cities in the County are doing in
many areas – RHNA numbers, energy usage, climate action plans, and transportation. Taking
data to the Cities, those of us involved in the benchmarking process were able to show
successes, and where cities could put more emphasis. A rental registry is a vital addition to the
successful implementation of Tenant Protections. While AB 1482 created a set of renter
protections, there currently is no way to track whether those renter protections are being met.
Please direct staff at your April 21 Study Session to prepare for consideration a strong Tenant 
Protection Ordinance that includes the five points above. 
Thank you 
Robert Whitehair, Co Leader 
Michelle Hudson, Co Leader 
San Mateo Climate Action Team 
694 of 891

--- page 695 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 3:38 PM

To: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Ildiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce: Clerk <cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: SUPPORT for expanding AB 1482

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of the San Mateo City Council,

As the study session approaches at which the council will discuss various options for expanding AB 1482, I am
writing on behalf of One San Mateo, which is a member of the coalition called “Our Home San Mateo,” to
express our interest in your taking meaningful action to expand AB 1482 and fulfill the city’s obligation to
Affirmatively Further Fair Housing.

When the California legislature adopted Assembly Bill 686 in 2015, it affirmed the obligation of public agencies
to Affirmatively Further Fair Housing, an obligation that was originally articulated in the Fair Housing Act of
1968. Further, AB 686 named the Department of Housing and Community Development as the agency
responsible for oversight and enforcement of AFFH. In April of 2021, HCD issued a 94-page memo with
guidelines for the implementation of AB 686. This memo asserts, in no uncertain terms, that anti-

displacement measures are integral to the fulfillment of obligations under AFFH, laying out a wide range of
anti-displacement policies that would qualify in satisfaction of this. It mentions, among many others, rent
control, just cause for eviction, relocation assistance, and tenant right to counsel.

In its recently certified housing element, the City of San Mateo committed to at least one such policy. Policy
H3.4 states that the city will “Extend AB 1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for No Fault
evictions for those with tenure less than one year.” While this is significant, One San Mateo, along with the
other organizations in the “Our Home San Mateo” coalition, maintains that this one policy would be
insufficient to satisfy the city’s obligations under AFFH. We have set forth five other proposals that we believe
would enable the city to make a more fulsome response to the requirements under AFFH.

Those policies are:

1. Starting just cause for eviction on Day One
2. Prohibiting no-fault evictions while the tenants’ children are in school

695 of 891


--- page 696 ---
2
3.
Providing the right to return after a substantial remodel, with a cap on the allowable rent
increase
4.
Increasing relocation assistance for No Fault evictions associated with substantial remodel,
owner move-in and Ellis Act withdrawals to three months, in line with the city’s demolition and
condo conversion policies
5.
Creating a rental data registry
The objective of AFFH is to help reverse the discriminatory impacts of past housing practices and to foster the 
creation of inclusive communities. These are goals we believe the council would readily sign onto. In the 
interest of furthering them, One San Mateo encourages the council to act with an appropriate sense of urgency 
to move the above policies into law. 
Sincerely, 
Karyl Eldridge 
Vice Chair of One San Mateo 
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you know is valid
to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not have authority to bind a
party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication.
696 of 891

--- page 697 ---
-----Original Message-----

From:

Sent: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 4:25 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: OHSM Policy

Dear City Council
| am a nurse practitioner who works in palliative care, and | frequently hear from my patients that they cannot find
caregivers or that their caregivers have moved away because they cannot afford to live here. This is a serious problem

that affects their health and emotional state.

We need to retain essential workers like these caregivers in our community and | urge you to support the 5 renter
protection policies put forward by Our Home San Mateo.

Thank you,
Anya Sander

697 of 891


--- page 698 ---
From: Emily Morris

Date: Wednesday, April 16, 2025 at 6:15 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Keep San Mateo renters in their homes

Dear City Council,

On April 21 the city council will consider options for fulfilling its commitment to expand protections under AB 1482. | am
writing as a resident of San Mateo to encourage the council to adopt policies that will have a meaningful impact on the
housing security of renters in San Mateo.

The City of San Mateo is known to have some of the highest housing costs—both home prices and rents—in the entire
nation. Furthermore, the city’s housing element says that rents increased 75% in a period of 10 years. In the face of
increasing rents and wages that nowhere near keep pace, many San Mateo renters live paycheck to paycheck, struggling
to keep food on the table, pay their utility bills, clothe their children, and make the rent. They live in a highly fragile state
and are at risk of being displaced.

Many of those most affected are workers whose contributions are essential to the functioning of the community—child
care workers, paramedics, home health aides, elementary school teachers, security guards, and retail clerks. If we
continue to hemorrhage the people who fill these critical jobs, the future vitality of San Mateo is at risk.

In the interest of protecting the well-being of San Mateo renters, and the future of the city itself, | encourage the city to

take bold action to keep renters in their homes. | specifically ask that you support the following:

1. Just cause for eviction from Day One
2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year

1

698 of 891


--- page 699 ---
2
3.
Right to return after a substantial remodel
4.
Increased relocation assistance
5.
Creation of a rental data registry
Thank you for your consideration, 
Emily 
699 of 891

--- page 700 ---
Lwy** OF WOMEN VOTERS’

April 21, 2025

City Council of the City of San Mateo
330 W. 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Tenant Protection Ordinance Updates Proposed by Our Home San Mateo - Support
To the Honorable City Council,

The League of Women Voters is a non-partisan, grassroots organization founded over 100 years
ago to protect democracy and help people participate in governmental decisions that affect their
lives. We advocate for public policies only when we determine that they comply with a formal
League position addressing a particular issue. Positions require thorough and objective member
study and consensus.

The national League’s position on meeting basic needs calls on us to “support programs and
policies to prevent or reduce poverty and to promote self-sufficiency for individuals and families
. .. [including] policies to provide a decent home and a suitable living environment for every
American family.” That’s why this League endorses the policy recommendations related to
tenant protections developed by the Our Home San Mateo coalition. Each of the five proposed
changes was carefully designed to target realities caused by the affordable housing crisis we all
acknowledge, including factors that result in the tragic disruptions associated with “no fault”
evictions, exorbitantly high rents, and importantly, the inadequacy of data collection processes
needed to make effective policy decisions.

We urge you to comply with the City’s Housing Element’s commitment to update pertinent
ordinances by adopting and implementing those recommendations.

Thank you for your efforts to obtain community input on this matter and for this opportunity to
offer our views.

Respectfully,

Tina Doede, President

League of Women Voters of North & Central San Mateo County
444 Peninsula Ave. #1 San Mateo, CA 94401

NOTE: the League of Women Voters of North & Central San Mateo County is a 501(¢)3 organization. Dues and
contributions are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law. Our tax ID number is 94-2267196.

700 of 891


--- page 701 ---
April 16, 2025 
 
Mayor Rob Newsom Jr. 
Deputy Mayor Adam Loraine 
Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash 
Council Member Danielle Cwirko-Godycki 
Council Member Nicole Fernandez 
 
Dear Honorable San Mateo City Council Members: 
 
On April 21, the City Council will consider options for fulfilling its commitment to expand 
renter protections. I am writing on behalf of Public Advocates to urge the City Council to adopt 
policies that will have a meaningful impact on the housing security of renters in San Mateo. 
Specifically, Public Advocates supports the policy proposals that have been set forth by the “Our 
Home San Mateo” coalition. These changes are focused on preventing evictions and helping to 
keep San Mateo renters in their homes. 
 
Public Advocates is a nonprofit law firm and advocacy organization that challenges the systemic 
causes of poverty and racial discrimination by strengthening community voices in public policy 
and achieving tangible legal victories advancing education, housing, transportation equity, and 
climate justice. Our organization has deep expertise in renter protections and other local anti-
displacement policies.  
 
The City of San Mateo is known to have some of the highest housing costs—both home prices 
and rents—in the entire nation.  Furthermore, the city’s Housing Element says that rents 
increased 75% in a period of 10 years. In the face of increasing rents and stagnating wages, many 
San Mateo renters live paycheck to paycheck, struggling to keep food on the table, pay their 
utility bills, clothe their children, and make the rent. They live at great risk of displacement. 
 
Eviction is so much more than a forced move. It can be a life-changing event that seriously 
harms families, undermining their economic security and housing stability for years to come. 
Data shows that eviction negatively impacts health outcomes, and eviction can be especially 
traumatizing for children. Often when families are forced to move, children abruptly lose their 
connections to neighborhoods and must switch schools, disrupting learning.  
  
In the interest of shielding families from the negative effects of eviction, Public Advocates 
encourages the City Council to adopt the “Our Home San Mateo” policy proposals, as follows: 
  
1. Just cause for eviction from Day One 
2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year 
3. Right to return after a substantial remodel  
4. Increased relocation assistance 
5. Creation of a rental data registry 
  
701 of 891

--- page 702 ---
The above measures are concrete ways the City Council can take action to protect families from 
eviction, displacement, and homelessness and to increase housing stability. Public Advocates 
encourages the City Council to move with urgency to enact these policies.  
We have expertise in state and local landlord-tenant law and have drafted just cause for eviction 
ordinances for jurisdictions across the Bay Area. Please contact me with any questions about 
how these policies work in practice or why they are so urgently needed – Public Advocates 
would be happy to provide technical assistance on these policy proposals or answer any legal 
questions. 
Thank you. 
Sincerely, 
Suzanne Dershowitz 
Senior Staff Attorney 
Public Advocates  
702 of 891

--- page 703 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 9:10 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City
Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support for Our Home San Mateo's policy proposals

Dear San Mateo City Council and Staff:

On behalf of Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto (CLSEPA), I would like to encourage the city
council to adopt the policy changes set forth by the “Our Home San Mateo.” These changes are
focused on preventing evictions and helping to keep San Mateo renters in their homes.

Eviction is so much more than a forced move. It can, in fact, be a life-changing event that does
families serious harm, undermining their prospects for years to come. It is known to impact both
physical and emotional health, and for families with limited resources, the costs involved can
exacerbate challenging financial circumstances.

Often when families are forced to move, families and children abruptly lose their connections to
neighborhood, church and school. Their whole support system can collapse. Eviction often correlates
with a drop in school performance.

In the interest of shielding families and individuals from the negative effects of eviction and providing
stability from day one, CLSEPA encourages the council to adopt the “Our Home San Mateo” policy
proposals, as follows:

1. Just cause for eviction from day one to provide all families with stable housing from the
beginning of their tenancy

2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year

3. Right to return after a substantial remodel

1

703 of 891


--- page 704 ---
2
4. Increased relocation assistance
5. Creation of a rental data registry to provide data to the City to continue to improve stability
in the rental housing market
The above measures are concrete ways the council can act to protect families from the trauma of 
evictions and increase the stability of their lives. CLSEPA encourages the council to move with an 
appropriate sense of urgency to move them into law. 
Best regards, 
Keith Ogden 
-- 
KEITH OGDEN, ESQ. | MANAGING ATTORNEY, HOUSING PROGRAM 
pronouns: he / him / his / (Why Pronouns Matter) 
Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto
www.clsepa.org 
704 of 891

--- page 705 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 9:44 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce:

Subject: Housing Providers Need Your He Staff Proposals Rent Control

Mayor Newsom and Members of the City Council:

We ask that you not move forward with any of the expanded tenant protections being
proposed by staff as they are very one-sided and will have a punishing effect on
housing providers in this community who are already laboring under a very challenging
financial environment.

Our costs for repairs are skyrocketing due to the demand for labor and

materials. Moreover, many of us will likely be required to spend tens of thousands of
dollars to convert our buildings to electric power in the near future to comply with
recently adopted mandates which will not save us much, if any, money. Finally, and
very significantly, our insurance costs are skyrocketing and the coverage provided is
shrinking. This translates into us needing to spend much more money on premiums
and incur higher expenses that were previously covered by our insurers.

Tenant protections are burdensome and add to the expense of providing

housing. Expanding the tenant protections provided by State law will only amplify the
challenges faced by housing providers and will not increase the supply of much
needed low-income housing. Such protections are pushing out of existence small
rental property Owners (e.g. 4 units or less).

Most housing providers will agree that the high cost of housing is indeed a vexing
problem that needs to be resolved. To place the financial burden of resolving this

problem on one set of constituents is both unfair and unwise.
1

705 of 891


--- page 706 ---
2
Instead, we ask that you stop this assault on those of us who provide housing and 
instead work with all the stakeholders in the housing community to craft a solution that 
takes into account the needs of all.
Sincerely,
Steven Runchey, Housing Provider 
706 of 891

--- page 707 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 9:31 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Ce:

Subject: San Mateo Rent Control Initiative

Dear Council and Management,,

As aconcerned citizen and real estate professional, | urge you to reject the attempt to bring rent control
to San Mateo. As numerous examples prove, rent control disincentives property owners from further
investment in their property and ultimately leas to neighborhood decline. Let’s keep San Mateo as one of

the crown jewels of San Mateo County.

Thank you in advance for doing the right thing,

BOB BEDBURY,

Broker Associate, CIPS, SRES

707 of 891


--- page 708 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 10:25 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Regarding Proposed Rent Control Measures in San Mateo

Dear Council and Management,

As both a local resident and a real estate professional, | respectfully encourage you to oppose the
proposed implementation of rent control in San Mateo. History has shown that such measures often
discourage property owners from maintaining and improving their investments, which can lead to long-
term negative impacts on our neighborhoods.

Let’s continue to uphold San Mateo’s reputation as one of the most vibrant and well-cared-for
communities in the county.

Thank you for your thoughtful consideration,

KAT BEDBURY,

Principal/Realtor®, CIPS, SRES

708 of 891


--- page 709 ---
From:

Date: Thu, Apr 17, 2025 at 9:31 AM

Subject: San Mateo Rent Control Initiative

To: <citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>, <akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org>,
<cityattorneysoffice@cityofsanmateo.org>, <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Ce:

Dear Council and Management,,

As aconcerned citizen and real estate professional, | urge you to reject the attempt to bring rent control
to San Mateo. As numerous examples prove, rent control disincentives property owners from further
investment in their property and ultimately leas to neighborhood decline. Let’s keep San Mateo as one of
the crown jewels of San Mateo County.

Thank you in advance for doing the right thing,

BOB BEDBURY,

Broker Associate, CIPS, SRES

709 of 891


--- page 710 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 1:20 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Regarding renters rights.

4/17/2025
Dear Council Members,

| am writing to express my support for stronger protections for renters and to show my support for a
comprehensive rental registry in the city of San Mateo.

Renters make up 48% of our population and deserve safe, stable, and dignified housing. Unfortunately,
without transparency and accountability, tenants often face challenges such as substandard living
conditions, unjust evictions, and difficulty contacting landlords for essential repairs.

Itis so hard to understand how the city of San Mateo can be supportive of all its residents when it does
not have records or details of the renter’s situations.

Arental registry is a crucial step toward protecting renters’ rights. It simply requires landlords to register
their properties and provides the city the capability to ensure better enforcement of housing codes,
create accountability for negligent landlords, and generate reliable data to inform housing policy.

| urge the San Mateo City Council to consider the long-term benefits of a rental registry and to continue
prioritizing policies that protect renters' rights and promote housing stability in our community.

Thank you for your time and attention to this important issue.

Sincerely,

Teresa Gebler

Resident- San Mateo

710 of 891


--- page 711 ---
From:

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 1:40 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Letter on Rental Protections in San Mateo

Dear City Council,

In order to maintain San Mateo’s character as a supportive location for middle class families, change, in
the form of enhanced rental protections, is necessary.

The core values outlined in the City of San Mateo’s charter require consideration for diversity and
inclusivity. Nearly half of the city’s residents are renters. Keeping these citizens safe from unjust eviction
is paramount to the stability and continuity of their lives, as well as the lives of their children.

Housing security for renters, in the form of predictable increases and the expectation of renewal, should
be considered a fundamental right and a key goal of the Council. This plea is echoed by a large coalition of
nonprofit organizations. Housing in San Mateo should not be simply a good to be purveyed to the highest
bidder and at the whim of speculating landlords.

This council has an uncommon ability right now to champion fifty thousand San Mateo citizens. Please
undertake this effort with the goal of embracing these renters as an increasing percentage of the
population and equally deserving of establishing themselves in San Mateo. The cost to buy is beyond most
people, native and new. This should not inevitably lead to their political and social disenfranchisement in
the form of not having any right to call their long term residence their permanent home.

Kind Regards,

Kara Cox

711 of 891


--- page 712 ---
From:
To:
City Attorney"s Office; Rachel Horst; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
In support of Our Home San Mateo Tenant policy proposals
Date:
Thursday, April 17, 2025 2:22:06 PM
I encourage the council to adopt the five policies proposed by Our Home San Mateo. These are
concrete ways you can act to protect families from the trauma of eviction and increase the stability
of their lives.
The time is now to protect residents of San Mateo in their first year of rental and provide a
clearinghouse on information of properties.  There are lots of ways where landlords can review
and vent tenants if needed.  
Ler's do the right thing to move forward and protect tenants.
thank you
Nancy Lacsamana
712 of 891

--- page 713 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting
POST PACKET
PUBLIC COMMENT
As of April 21, 2025, at 4:00 PM
713 of 891

--- page 714 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Michael Anthony <a

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Michael Anthon

714 of 891


--- page 715 ---
Oh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Jim Baba <a
Date Sun 4/20/2025 9:00 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Council Members:

As a housing provider it has been most challenging the last 5 years. Costs have gone up tremendously, let alone
my insurance cost which has increased 2.5 times over the past year. I'm just now getting my rents back to pre-
Covid levels, as | reduced rents during that time for my current tenants to align with the rental rate of new tenants
coming in. During this time my costs have skyrocketed. We already have plenty of state and city laws on behalf of
tenants, and do not need to further burden housing providers. Furthermore, after reading the Letter from Your City
Manager, | learned that San Mateo faces a structural budget deficit. Creating a rent registry would be costly, and
there are concems over privacy.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Jim Baba

715 of 891


--- page 716 ---
Gh Outlook

Vote NO on AB 1157

From Zarine Batliwalla ee

Date Fri 4/18/2025 8:56 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Voters and economists alike have warned about the dangers of rent control — and voters have
rejected it at the ballot box again and again. Propositions 10, 21, and 33 were all defeated by more
than 20 percentage points.

Now AB 1157 ignores the will of the voters and threatens to drive even more rental housing out of the
market. Slashing the rent cap to just 2% plus inflation will force many small property owners to sell or
convert their properties, displacing tenants and worsening the housing shortage.

Rental housing providers didn't create California's housing crisis. Penalizing them with punitive rent
caps only makes the situation worse.

Research from institutions like Stanford University and the California Legislative Analyst's Office has
shown that strict rent control reduces housing availability, discourages new construction, and

ultimately harms renters.

Please vote No on AB 1157.

photo Zarine Batliwalla

w.photo

716 of 891


--- page 717 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Vote NO on AB1157

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:15 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Public comment for 4/21.

Rachel

From: Zarine Batwa <i

Sent: Friday, April 18, 2025 8:57 AM
To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Vote NO on AB1157

Voters and economists alike have warned about the dangers of rent control — and voters have
rejected it at the ballot box again and again. Propositions 10, 21, and 33 were all defeated by
more than 20 percentage points.

Now AB 1157 ignores the will of the voters and threatens to drive even more rental housing out
of the market. Slashing the rent cap to just 2% plus inflation will force many small property
owners to sell or convert their properties, displacing tenants and worsening the housing
shortage.

Rental housing providers didn’t create California’s housing crisis. Penalizing them with punitive
rent caps only makes the situation worse.

Research from institutions like Stanford University and the California Legislative Analyst's Office
has shown that strict rent control reduces housing availability, discourages new construction,
and ultimately harms renters.

Please vote No on AB 1157.

717 of 891


--- page 718 ---
718 of 891


--- page 719 ---
Gh Outlook

Letter to City Council

From Rustard Mustard <r

Date Mon 4/21/2025 9:01 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob
Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor and City Council,

In my professional life, I have worked 1 on 1 with individuals and families who were
physically and emotionally damaged by living in squalor in San Mateo. I have seen
conditions that you would never, ever allow yourself to live in. I have seen children
covered with bedbug sores on their entire bodies, homes that were infested with
mold on large sections of multiple rooms, ceilings with holes and water dripping,
stoves that didn't properly work, rodent droppings and so forth.

Over the years while my husband was serving as the Mayor and Council member, I
accompanied him when he got calls about Renter's needs.

If you think there is no need for Renter Protections at this time, then I have some

places for you to see and people to meet. I invite you to tour the reality and I

will be your tour guide.

I know a lot of landlords who are good people. They have nothing to worry about.

It is the ones who do nothing for their properties and tenants that need to be
regulated.

719 of 891


--- page 720 ---
lM Outlook

URGENT A Thoughtful Approach to Protecting San Mateo’s Housing Ecosystem

Date Mon 4/ 12:42 PM

Dear Mayor Newsom, Councilmembers Diaz Nash, Lorraine, Cwirko-Godycki, Fernandez,
and City Staff, and the entire City of San Mateo renters.

Please keep this confidential.

As a real estate professional for 21 years with nd a long-time
advocate for responsible housing policy, | want to express my support for the City of San
Mateo’s exploration of expanded tenant protections, increased transparency through a
rental registry, and strengthened accountability measures for landlords utilizing
substantial remodel exemptions.

While | am fully aware of the concerns raised by SAMCAR and the California Apartment
Association, | believe it is essential that we do not lose sight of the broader context: we
are in the midst of a historic and on-going housing crisis. The cost of living in San Mateo
continues to outpace wage growth, and more and more residents—many of whom are

working families and people of color—are finding themselves displaced or priced out of
the communities they call home.

As a minority voice in this industry, | feel compelled to point out that the influx of
corporate and institutional investments into single-family housing has tilted the market in
favor of large-scale operators, diminishing opportunities for first-time homebuyers and
distorting neighborhood dynamics. In a climate where corporate ownership grows
unchecked, tenant protections are not just justified—they are necessary.

| commend the City for seeking tools to ensure transparency, accountability, and fairness.
A rental registry is not about overregulation; it’s about data-driven policy-making.
Requiring documentation for substantial remodel exemptions ensures the integrity of
these rules and protects tenants from being pushed out under false pretenses. Relocation
assistance and right-to-return policies are humane responses to involuntary
displacement, helping stabilize our communities as | fear things are only going to get
worse.

This isn’t about vilifying landlords or ignoring the legitimate concerns of housing
providers. Rather, it’s about rebalancing the equation to preserve the dignity, security,
and future of renters while continuing to incentivize responsible property ownership. |

720 of 891


--- page 721 ---
respectfully urge you to continue exploring these policies and more with a lens toward
long-term equity and sustainability without losing sight of diversity.

Thank you for your leadership and consideration.

Sincerely,

Cc:
Mayor of San Mateo, Rob Newsom

City Manager Alex Khojikian,
City Attorney Prasanna Rasiah,
Housing Manager Rachel Horst,
All City Council members

Lisa Diaz Nash,

Adam Lorraine,

Danielle Cwirko-Godycki,

Nicole Fernandez

721 of 891


--- page 722 ---
April 21, 2025
San Mateo City Council
San Mateo City Hall
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Re: Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policy Proposals - Housing Leadership Council of
San Mateo County
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,
The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) works with communities and their leaders
to produce and preserve quality affordable homes.
On behalf of HLC, I am writing to encourage you to adopt the policy changes set forth by our partners at
“Our Home San Mateo.” These changes are focused on preventing evictions and helping to keep your
San Mateo renters in their homes.
Eviction is so much more than a forced move. It can be a life-altering event with serious and lasting
impacts on families—undermining their economic security, mental and physical health, and overall
well-being. For community members with limited resources, the costs of eviction can push them over a
financial cliff.
Eviction can be especially traumatizing for children. Often, when families are forced to move, children
abruptly lose their connections to neighborhood, church, and school. Their entire support system
collapses. Research shows eviction is linked to declines in academic performance and an increased risk
of involvement in the juvenile justice system.
In the interest of shielding families from the negative effects of eviction, HLC would like to encourage
you to adopt the following “Our Home San Mateo” anti-displacement and tenant protection policy
proposals:
1. Just cause for eviction from Day One
2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
3. Right to return after a substantial remodel
4. Increased relocation assistance
5. Creation of a rental data registry
722 of 891

--- page 723 ---
You have an opportunity to create a meaningful, lasting impact on the lives of your community members.
By adopting the proposed measures, you will be taking clear, tangible steps to protect San Mateo
families from the devastating effects of eviction and foster greater stability in your community. We urge
you to support these vital protections for your community members.
Sincerely,
Ken Chan
Senior Organizer
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403 • (650) 242-1764 • hlcsmc.org
723 of 891

--- page 724 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Luisa Chaver iii

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 12:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Luisa Chavez

724 of 891


--- page 725 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

rom iy Cron re

Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Proposed legislation like this just discourages small landlords to enter or stay in the rental market. | will exit the
rental industry and take my housing off the rental market completely if this type of legislation is passed because we
cannot afford this. It just unjustly punishes the landlord and place the entire burden of "affordable" housing on the
shoulders of landlord even though it is a systemic problem that is NOT created by the landlords and it should be
evaluated and inclusive of ALL perspectives, not just renters and activists.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lily Chen

725 of 891


--- page 726 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Jo-Ann De Rewer [i

via votervoice.net
Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:20 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Jo-Ann De Rewenda

726 of 891


--- page 727 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Why do you use a carrot with hi tec and a club on landlords? How about tax credits for below market rents?

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

727 of 891


--- page 728 ---
Oh Outlook

Opposing added Rent Control in San Mateo

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:09 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org
<akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel
Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

To:

Citv

Manager Alex Khojikian,
City

Attorney Prasanna Rasiah,
Housing

Manager Rachel Horst, and
City

Council members Rob Newsom (Mayor),
Lisa

Diaz Nash,

Adam

Lorraine,

Nicole

Fernandez

Gentlepersons:

Further rent control measures are not necessary in San Mateo. We have a state law for rent
control and an online calculator showing the rate at which

rent can be increased in each of California's 58 counties. It ls County Specific. There is a
maximum of 10% regardless of the cost of living and the allowable rate has hovered around
8%.

The cost of doing business has increased phenomenally, due for the most part to expenses for
which we have no control. All of the utilities have asked for and been granted rate increases.
PGE, has asked for and been granted rate hikes in one year, Recology has just about doubled
in 10 years, now it's $42 or $47 per can in South San Francisco, Comcast has just raised it's
business and residential rates. The water department - the costs for waste water now exceed
the cost for clean water. San Bruno stopped including this fee on the water invoice and now
includes it on the tax bill. There is that 10% cap on writing off taxes paid. Another loss.

There is also the topic of maintenance and repairs and permits for same. The costs for
plumbers, painters, electricians. has gone way up. Costs increased. If the average cost paid
before was $300-$500, now | have found that it's $700-$1000.

Also, new fees and license requirements have been implemented around the state. South San
Francisco now requires rental providers to obtain a business license. That's another $300+

Then we can look at tenants, payment of rent, security deposits and damages to the property.
Security deposits are now capped at the equivalent of one month's rent. So if you have an
apartment that you rent for $2,000 and the tenant backs into your garage door - that can cost
you $1000 if it's a partial repair. You repair the garage door because, aside from the esthetics,

728 of 891


--- page 729 ---
gaps will allow rodents to enter and that will lead to the health department and/or Vector control.
Then the tenant rolls into it again, another $1000 - you've maxed the security deposit.

By the way, the tenant rolls into the door because, contrary to the lease (so written to prevent
precisely this), parks right up to the door.

You can't ask them to replenish the deposit if you'd raised the rent in the same year because
you'd then be exceeding the maximum annual percentage for an increase. If nothing else, you
could end up in court to "discuss".

This was not a hypothetical!

A property owner can live with the state mandated rent control in it's present form. Implementing
rent control as outlined, you are facilitating the demise of the small property owner. A property
owner cannot be expected to subsidize California's renters, and yet, that is the direction to
which property owners are being forcibly herded.

The reality is that costs everywhere have skyrocketed. Measures like these should be fairly
considered. You Must Consider Both Sides.

The tenant is not always right. You cannot lump all tenants or all property owners in the same
box.

Just like many other issues raised in your meetings there are already measures in place to
address bad behavior whether on the part of the landlord or the tenant.

Adding more controls to rentals in San Mateo will create more and unnecessary problems and
delays.

Please do not implement San Mateo specific rent control.

Rita Fontana

729 of 891


--- page 730 ---
City of San Mateo Council Members: Concerning New Tenant Landlord Laws

Council members, | have reviewed proposed changes affecting my rentals in California.

| am opposed to the proposals; they will negatively affect the business.

| believe these changes are hostile, poorly thought out and lack understanding of the basic

business principles, chiefly economic reality.

In my opinion, the rental registry is the lesser of the concerns because if the changes
in “just cause” and additional “relocation” proposal pass a large number of rentals
will become economically unsustainable and the rental registry will be a colossal

failure.

Let’s look at the basic balance sheet for the average landlord. The cashflow probably
looks great to most folks but the net profit is an entirely different story.

Income: Monthly rental charges. Full tenancy for a year is not realistic, there are repairs to
be made after a tenant leaves.

Costs: Property Tax, Property Insurance (if you can acquire it), painting costs after a tenant
moves out, State of California Tax, Federal Tax, Gardening fees, legal expenses, CPA costs,
repair and cleanup losses can often be greater than the rental deposit allowed by AB 1482

and nearly impossible to collect on.

Considerations:

1. The life expectancy for most appliances is less than 8 years.
2. Property insurance in California is becoming increasingly more expensive if

available.
3. Inthe past 4 years nationally the inflation rate exceeded 22% based on the Bureau

of Labor Statistics, the Bay Area exceeds this figure.
4. Many landlords use rental income to augment their retirement income and already

face aconomic/health challenges.

730 of 891


--- page 731 ---
5. Some tenants will sublet without the landlord’s permission and pocket the
undeclared income.

6. Belongings let behind cause large losses for the landlord.

7. Anon-contested eviction generally takes about 45 days, while a contested one
around 60-75.

8. The rental registry will add costs to the landlord and likely be passed along to the
tenant if they are excessive. This includes inspections which are difficult if not
impossible under AB 1482.

9. The rental registry will likely end up in litigation due to shortcomings/data risks for

the landlord and tenants.
10. Data collected by the rental registry will be shared with Federal agencies.

Welfare Recipients by State 2025
Bottom

California

Texas
New York
Florida
Illinois

PennsyivanialliiiiTéM)
Georgia
Ohio 1.5M
North

Carolina

ADiahinan aisles py) Y oy

SNAP Recipients June 2022
a) iM @ 2m @3m @4m @5m

https://worldpopulationreview.com/state-rankings/welfare-recipients-by-state

Thank you for your time and attention,

Gary Laughlin

731 of 891


--- page 732 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21, 2025

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:52 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Omar Galinlo [rrr

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 3:36 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's

Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Maria Manzo Sa
Subject: Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21, 2025

Omar Galindo

April 17, 2025

San Mateo City Council
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21,
2025

Dear Honorable Mayor and City Council Members,

As a rental housing provider and long-time member of the San Mateo community, | am writing
to express my strong opposition to the proposed changes to the City’s rental housing
regulations, scheduled for review during the upcoming study session on Monday, April 21, 2025.

While | understand the Council's intent to address housing concerns and tenant protections, the
proposed amendments—particularly the immediate application of “just cause” protections from
the start of a tenancy, the increase in relocation assistance for no-fault terminations, and the
implementation of a rent registry—present serious concerns for local property owners like
myself.

| currently own and manage the following rental properties in San Mateo:

1. Immediate Just Cause Protections:
Under California law (AB 1482), the 12-month period before “just cause” protections apply

732 of 891


--- page 733 ---
allows landlords to make informed decisions about tenants during a reasonable trial period.
Eliminating this window removes a critical tool for property owners to ensure tenants are a good
fit, and may discourage future investment in rental housing within San Mateo.

2. Increased Relocation Assistance:

While | support fair and reasonable relocation compensation in genuine no-fault circumstances,
raising these requirements substantially above state mandates creates additional financial
burdens on landlords, particularly small-scale providers. These policies can lead to difficult and
unintended consequences, such as deferred maintenance or reduced housing availability,
which ultimately harm both landlords and tenants.

3. Rent Registry Requirements:

Mandatory submission of rent roll data introduces ongoing administrative obligations that are
both intrusive and unnecessary. Most landlords are already in compliance with applicable state
law and local codes. Arent registry adds complexity without offering meaningful insight or
benefit, especially for mom-and-pop landlords already stretched thin by compliance and
maintenance costs.

These proposals signal a shift toward overly punitive policies that disregard the challenges
faced by responsible landlords. As a member of the rental housing community, | take pride in
maintaining my properties and treating tenants with fairness and respect. | urge the City Council
to reconsider this approach and work collaboratively with property owners to create policies that
balance tenant protections with the viability and sustainability of rental housing providers.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. | respectfully ask you to oppose the adoption of
these regulations and instead pursue balanced solutions that encourage housing investment
while supporting tenants.

Sincerely,

Omar Galindo and Maria G. Manzo
San Mateo Property Owner & Housing Provider

733 of 891


--- page 734 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Thalia Georgopcus [i

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Thalia Georgopoulos

734 of 891


--- page 735 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — Slow Down! No New Laws!

From William Gorrran <r

Date Fri 4/18/2025 11:20 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

William Gorman

735 of 891


--- page 736 ---
ch Outlook
Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 11:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

736 of 891


--- page 737 ---
oh Outlook
Tenant Protections

Fern ae

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:30 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

This letter is to express my opposition to tenant protection policies you are proposing. Here's
why:

1. The people of San Mateo have already expressed their opposition to expansive rent
control beyond State Rent Control AB 1482. 60% of San Mateo voters voted against
Measure Q rent control several years ago and 62% recently voted against State Rent Control
eposmon 33. Are you just not listening/remembering or are you marching to your own
drummer‘?

2. What is the motive for setting up a rental registry and charging landlords for setting up
a bureaucracy to implement it? The obvious one is to install punitive/restrictive rent price
caps beyond the AB1482. All this will reduce the landlord’s income even more. If this is not the
motive, then there are many other free sources to obtain rental information without setting up a
landlord funded bureaucracy.

Nearly 46% of rental housing units are small rental properties of 1-4 units. Over 70% of these
are owned by individuals and managed by the same owners. These small Mom and Pops rely
on this investment not only for current income, but also like a 401K, for current or future
retirement income. They are entitled to make a reasonable profit for hard work to help them get
there. If they don’t, properties will be sold, taken off the rental market, limited new rentals added
and money put into other more profitable investments.

Mom and Pops are already facing challenging maintenance costs. The average home in San
Mateo was built in 1965. 48% of renter-occupied units are 55-95 years old. These units are
increasingly in need of costly maintenance/replacements and exacerbated with high inflation
rates and maintenance costs that continue to exceed that. Costs are becoming very significant
such as conversion from gas to electric appliances, energy efficient windows, roofs, plumbing,
sewer pipes, foundations, fences, concrete/hardscape, furnaces, electrical wiring/panels,
painting, insulation etc. added to property taxes and mortgage costs. Also, the wild fire crisis in
California is causing rental property insurance costs to escalate for all areas statewide to make
up for high localized property loses.

737 of 891


--- page 738 ---
3. The rental registry is a bad idea from so many points of view besides the financial
burden talked about in #2. Sharing rental information can raise privacy issues for both tenant
and landlord. This information could drive up prices if landlords see neighboring units paying
higher prices.

It’s going to be an added administrative burden upon landlords along with all the other State
laws that require many pages of documentation. Some landlords may not comply, unaware,
forget, leading to incomplete data. If the number of rental laws get too onerous, landlords will
become so overwhelmed with the administrative burden that they will sell and exit the rental
market and thereby avoid adding new rental properties. Trying to enforce this will be very
difficult for the city. Simple solutions to complicated problems never work.

Respectfully,

Gary lsoardi

738 of 891


--- page 739 ---
ch Outlook
Tenant Proposals

For

Date Mon 4/21/2025 8:05 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

| am a small Housing Provider (1-4 units) and | oppose the proposed rental restrictions:

San Mateo Voters Have Already Spoken

The people of San Mateo have already spoken against expansive rental restrictions beyond AB1482
with measure Q several years ago with a 60% vote against and recently state proposition 33 with a
62% vote against.

Small Housing Providers Represent A Significant Share of Rental Units
46% of rental units are small Housing Providers, ma and pops
Over 70% of those are managed by small Housing Providers

Rental Buildings Are Aging Significantly
Average house in San Mateo was built in 1965.
48% of San Mateo renter-occupied units are 55-95 years old

Aging Rental Buildings Are Causing Significant Maintenace Costs

Because of the aging, maintenance costs are increasing significantly- Gas to electric appliances,
sewer laterals, electrical panel upgrades, roofs, galvanized to copper plumbing, foundations,
earthquake retrofit, hardscape, energy efficient windows, furnaces etc. And maintenance costs are
far exceeding the already high inflation rate. Added to that are escalating statewide insurance costs
due to wild fire crisis plus mortgage and property taxes.

Rental Housing Proposals will worsen Negative Cash Flow

Alot of small Housing Providers already face negative cash flow (i.e. expenses exceed rents) fora
long time until it turns positive. And Small Housing Providers hope it will turn positive before
retirement. Rentals are like a retirement 401K plan.

Rent Registry Will Morph Into Punitive Rent Restrictions
The rent registry can only be looked at as an eventual punitive rent reduction bureaucracy with
added Housing Provider costs and greater reduction of income for landlords.

Financial Instability, Over Regulation Will Cause Reduction in Rental Inventory

What all this means is financial instability for small Housing Providers. It will also force rental unit
sales, discourage new rental purchases, encourage investment in better financial opportunities and
reduce rental inventory. Added discouragement will be the burden of the numerous state and local
laws and regulations that will become too onerous to deal with for the small Housing Provider.

There Are Other Options

739 of 891


--- page 740 ---
The city should redirect its focus to supporting programs that provide rental assistance assistance
through community funded solutions and invest in robust outreach that educate renters and housing
providers on the laws already available for land-lord tenant issues.

Also, | hear these proposals might be included in the Housing Element which is a State mandate,
but it does not apply there. Is this some backroom dealing going on to get these proposals
implemented?

Respectfully

Gary Isoardi

740 of 891


--- page 741 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

As a small business owner, this is an attack on my livelihood. This is NOT San Francisco, and is a much smaller
city. Please do not force these requirements on small business owners like me.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

J. Ga

741 of 891


--- page 742 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Chris Krause [ae

Date Fri 4/18/2025 9:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Absolutely not!! You renter activists are out of your f ing kind!! Go buy a house like the rest of us!!!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Chris Krause

742 of 891


--- page 743 ---
City of San Mateo Council Members Concerning New Tenant-Landlord Laws

Dear City Council Members,

lam writing to express my deep concern regarding the recently proposed tenant-Landlord
Laws that are under review by the city council. As an owner and manager of rental property
in San Mateo County for almost 30 years, and as a former long-term resident, third
generation, | feel compelled to share my perspective on how these laws could impact both
tenants and landlords.

lam against these new tenant landlord proposals:

Proposals included but not limited to:

Applying “just cause” provisions starting on Day 1 of tenancy instead of after year 1
Increasing relocation payment of no-fault terminations

Requiring housing procedures to submit rent roll data through a rent registry

The new regulations propose harsher control and greater oversight of rental agreements.
While | understand the intention behind these measures is to protect tenants from unfair
practices, itis crucial to consider the ramifications for landlords as well. Many landlords,
as |, are small-scale property owners who rely on rental income to support their families
and maintain their properties. Imposing excessive regulations could discourage them, as
with me, from renting out their properties, potentially reducing the availability of housing
and driving up rental prices. Overall, good tenants lose good housing tailored to their
needs. No one wants to live in a “beehive” apartment complex full of unknowns, as in the
newly built “stack um and pack um” apartments littered along the freeway. | get applicants
coming from these apartments for my rental homes.

AB-1482 was not a necessary law. Good tenants are in demand, long term tenants were
always the goal for landlords. Rental housing is self-regulating by prospective tenants. Ifa
landlord does not maintain their rental, stay in competition with other high demand rentals,
or the rents are too high, good tenants will find other rentals -which defeats the overall goal
of the landlord. The one-year time frame for this law to be imposed after the tenant moves
in is not long enough. One year is not an investment for a tenant, | have had one family stay
up to 15 years — that is an investment worth allowing them one month’s free rent if there is a
no-fault eviction - which | have not had to do to date.

Proposing AB-1482 to begin at the start of a tenancy has no justification:

Page 1- OS r1g jorne \

743 of 891


--- page 744 ---
1. It appears that this law is geared towards companies with hundreds of units. The
owner of a handful of properties, such as myself, has much greater consequences
for each property than a corporation with hundreds of units scattered across several
states and /or cities within California. A single bad tenant can bankrupt a small
landlord who doesn’t have the legal staff, does maintenance on their own as
opposed to live in handymen such as in large apartments, and (for landlords | am
friends with, and including myself) might be facing age-related health issues which
appear out of nowhere. We need the longer time frame in case of emergencies,
other contingencies which require us to put our rental up for sale or do major repairs

that were unplanned.

2. The start of AB 1482 at the beginning of a tenancy does not allow the landlord the
opportunity to find out if a tenant is honorable or not.

The Bay Area is the most desirable place to live in CA. Many homes are up to if not more
than $1 million investments. Landlords have mortgages, such as us, we entrust our
personal property to complete strangers. One year is not enough time to truly get to know
tenants. We landlords need at the least one full year (actually more like three years) to
ensure that the tenant is not taking advantage of us —- such as using our rentals to establish
an AIR BNB and other unauthorized subleasing activities; also potential illegal activities —
sex trafficking, drug dealing, prostitution and so forth. Landlords must the opportunity to
come in and inspect the unit to make sure it’s being care for the way the rental contract
specifies. If this law is imposed on day one, it gives us no opportunity to ensure our
investment is secured since landlords are not allowed or discouraged to enter the unit
unless the tenant complains about a needed repair. We can enter to do maintenance, but
that is usually one year after the tenant moves in (such as replacing smoke detector /CO2
batteries), but by then, the unit could be trashed. Imposing AB 1482 at the start of a
tenancy will drive more landlords out of the rental business and cause real estate business
to stagnate. Large investors have already stopped building due to the insecurity as well as
the cyclical nature of funding for these developments. | have seen new apartments built
and not filled to capacity to date.

It does not seem fair to allow a tenant to move in, and if there is an unforeseen event which
requires them to move, they should not be allowed 2-3 months’ worth of rent to enrich
themselves at the owner’s expense. | invested over $100,000 to $150,000 to re-renovate my

(or >

744 of 891


--- page 745 ---
rentals prior to the tenants moving in. | was still making payments on this loan, when one
family of tenants suddenly decided they could not pay rent. They used Covid-19 (as many
others did) as an excuse to stop paying rent. These tenants were investigated and denied
assistance by a charity who determined the tenants had the means to pay rent. However,
tenants persisted and enrolled in the Covid-19 rent relieve fund. Even this agency flagged
them because they saw on their application that they were already getting funds from yet a
another charity organization — double dipping into the relief funds. Despite all of this, they
did not pay rent. | was forced to participate in Covid-19 Rent Relief Fund to get paid rent or
it would go into the hands of the tenants directly and | would not see it. | needed to pay my
debts for my renovations as well as maintenance, as well as make some profit to live on. It
took many months to get paid by the rent relieve fund. | was forced to take a 25%
deduction of rent for several of these months. The rent was already below market. If | could,
| would have sold this property then to pay my bills, but no one was buying. It was a
stressful time.

To complicated our lives further, these same tenants falsely accused me of discrimination
because they claimed that | told one of them to put their dog on a leash. They were in
violation of the rental agreement by having two unauthorized dogs sharing a common
backyard with another set of tenants. The tenants’ dogs were both large breeds, and one
was very aggressive towards strangers — handymen, other tenants, gardeners and me. It
should have been easy to evict based upon faulty eviction because they were in violation of
our rental agreement, but this is not the case. After the tenants received coaching by a
well-known Bay Area Non-Profit group who sides with tenants, both dogs were declared
ESA after the tenants and they were allowed to keep the dogs and continue to reside in the
rental. Despite having aggressive dogs, my attorney told me that they dogs would have to
bite someone before | could ask them to get rid of their now ESA’s.

The issue started when | discovered that their were 2 dogs on the premises. | asked them to
removed one of them, their choice, the tenants pleaded with me to allow them time to re-
home the dog. They asked me if | would allow this if they out their dogs ona leash in the
common backyard, and started training so the dog would be adoptable. | accommodated
them and allowed many months. But after complaints, | brought up the subject again —
move or get rid of the dog. They refused to do either. To keep both dogs and reside in a very
nice home, they declared both dogs ESA and claimed / asked them to put the dogs ona
leash. This they learned how to extort money by studying all the angles of the law. Now
encouraged by the tenant’s representative working for the non-profit group, the tenants
claimed by having to leash their dogs exacerbated their stress and proceeded to extort
$50,000 from me. These tenants planned to move out prior to this due to construction
noise in the area but were looking for a way to enrich themselves. They lied, and it took a

Rag ?

745 of 891


--- page 746 ---
year out of our lives to prove them wrong. My life savings were gone to pay for my attorney’s
fees to defend myself from her outrageously false claim. | ultimately won and the case was
dismissed by the state but with a cost to me and my family. Our mental, emotional and
physical health was adversely affected. This is the start of my husband’s cancer symptoms.
If this is not enough, | discovered the same tenants who claimed they could not afford to
pay rent were subleasing out, making money off of my property while | struggled to pay my
bills and had to ask the contractors for an extension to continue to pay them. The mother of
this group of tenants appears to not have even been living in the unit while she claimed she
was putting her dog on a leash. No other person, including me, have ever seen either dog
on a leash during their occupancy.

It is imperative that there is a “grace” period for a landlord to get to really know their
tenants, one year is not enough. | wish | had listened to my inner voice telling me not to rent
to this family, but they lied to get into my property, and | took them based upon their word. |
discovered later on, the tenant’s former landlord lied to me in order to get rid of them, and
the tenants habitually sued people/companies to get ahead in life —1 coined the term
“professional tenant” after them and use this to educate other landlords and realtors. My
point is, you never Know what a tenant will do, it takes time to get to know them, and for
information to appear which can be detrimental to landlords.

| have rented to all types of people, in various economic situations. If the economy is bad,
and my tenant cannot pay, a have allowed them to stay without payment. They eventually
will get back on their feet and pay rent. Landlord-tenant relationship is a relationship. | have
been told | am a great landlord, one tenant has named me God Mother of their child, and
another named me Aunt to her child. | have remained friends with many tenants. Especially
those who lived in one unit of my duplex when | lived in the other. We were like family. | have
been more than accommodating, fair minded, never charging late fees. However, the
government is undermining my rental contracts which have evolved over the decades. My
rental agreements were simple in the beginning. They are now over 102 pages long due to
lengthy rental agreements, as well as addendums and educational material.

The amount of documentation, photos, texts, has caused me to buy more storage devices
and cellular phones to keep all the necessary information in case | get sued by a tenant. It
is aconstant stress. | have not re-rented 3 units due to the constant stress of the unfair
laws punishing landlords. | have tried to sell the two units, but no one is willing to invest in
rental property. |am on my second, perhaps third, realtor trying to find a buyer. To make
matters worse, the “stack um and pack um” apartments which have been erected across
from my property has lowered the value tremendously. | have re-invested the rental income

di sa 4

746 of 891


--- page 747 ---
back into my rentals for decades and no longer have a saving account due to the
unscrupulous former tenant. Now in my sixties, my rentals were to be my retirement, but |
cannot even sell them to retire on or pay off our mortgage.

The proposal of offering 2-3 months rent towards relocation in non-fault evictions is
unjust, bias against landlords.

What does this mean? Does this mean the tenants get 2-3 months’ worth of rent paid to
them after they vacate the premises? Does this mean 2-3 months of rent-free living in the
rental prior to vacating? What if the rental unit is left in disarray, major damage, and
previously unpaid rent and the tenant’s security deposit is not enough to cover the costs?
We are only allowed to charge one -months’ worth of rent. It is not fair to give tenants
money when they owe more than 2-3 months’ worth of rent upon vacating. There is no
assurance that the tenants will leave the rental in good repair. My experience has been that
the tenants always leave the rental with more repairs greater than what a two month’s rent
security deposit will pay for; and in some cases, unpaid rent brings up to three months of
needed security deposit. Once | took a tenant to court for unpaid rent, damages and other
fees which were almost $10,000. | won, hired a collection agency who were unsuccessful,
decades later | still have not received any monies owned to me. | have taken many loses by
not having being able to charge enough security deposit to cover damages from former
tenants. This deficient contributes to raising the rent for the new tenants.

What concerns me is the limited rent increases under the AB 1482 law, which do not take
into consideration the real costs of ownership. Most tenants, including their advocates, do
not know the cost of maintaining real property. | have worked physically on my own
property in a variety of ways (such as not limited to: putting up sheet rock, installing
electrical sockets, painting a two-story home, landscaping) to help save money because
my rents were historically low compared to the rental market and | could not afford to hire
handymen at times. | am self-taught, and by working alongside contractors for decades |
have assisted them to help save money to do the upgrades and maintenance. | used to do
the clean up after tenants moved out free of charge. Now | am physically impaired due to
age and arthritis in my back due to the hard work | have put into my rentals.

My mistake is | did not charge the amount of rent | could have in order to save money for
future repairs, renovations and ultimately paying for the services of painters, cleaning
companies and handymen to do the work | used to be able to do myself. | learned after the
second time | remodeled the kitchens and bathroom -after 20 years from the first remodel,

the cost of doing so was shockingly high. | learned not to shortchange myself and when
someone moves out, | now study the market and get close to market value. However, | still

undercharge rents for the 2 units | still rent. It is now impossible to catch up due to this law.

747 of 891


--- page 748 ---
Tenants do not have an investment; they only create damages after they leave - even with
the best of tenants, most do not Know who to take care of a house despite putting in
recommendations in an addendum with their contracts. Under AB-1482 rent controlis
limited to 5% plus CPI - this is too low and does not cover the cost of inflation, nor does this
take into consideration the over inflated rates plumbers, contractors, painters and pest
control companies throughout California. Reputable companies are very hard to find, too
few of them around and there are no restrictions on what they charge. This creates a
financial strain on landlords who face increasing costs for maintenance, property taxes,
utilities, mortgages rates, rental insurance, travel and office expenses (as in any other
business). It is important to strike a balance that allows landlords to adjust rent in line
with inflation and market trends while ensuring tenants are not subjected to

exorbitant increases.

Issues at hand with the current laws allow bad tenants to play the system. The tenant has
the upper hand.

Recently, | gave legal notice to one set of tenants that their month to month will not be
renewed, they stopped paying rent. A tenant only needs to give one month’s notice where |
must give the equivalent of two months’ notice (60 days) plus mailing time added to this.
During this period, the tenant skipped out on paying two months’ rent. | was legally
required to continue to pay their utility bill. The house was trashed inside and outside when
they vacated. The house was newly painted before they moved in, recently remodeled
kitchen, professionally scrubbed tiled floors, newly relandscaped yard. They left it a dirty
mess, with so much unusable junk inside the garage and backyard, along with fecal matter
from their dogs which was fermented. They left the garage door open for feral cats to go
inside while residing in my rental. The smell of cat urine was very strong. | gave them the
legal notices for pre-inspection, no reply. No one showed up for the post inspection. No
reply to the notices of the abandonment of personal property they left behind. By law | have
to keep their abandoned property for 18 days plus more for mailing time. This reduced my
rental income by 3 months lost rent. The new law only allows one month’s rent for security
deposit. The cost to clean the house ($2,200.00), repair damages, and dispose of things
they left behind was in the thousands. Their security deposit did not cover these costs, let
alone the previously unpaid rent. | still must pay for acid washing the garage floor and
removal of wooden frame due to the smell of the cat urine —- odor neutralizer products failed
to remove the bad odor. To date the unit has not been rented for 4 months awaiting this
problem to be solved before | can show it to prospective tenants. Getting bids takes time.
Organizing repair schedules also takes time. This adds up to a tremendous amount of lost
rental income when the rental unit stays vacant due to tenant damage.

Page @

748 of 891


--- page 749 ---
If these tenants described above were “professional tenants”, and not just bad tenants,
they would have been “hold overs”. Playing the system since it takes now 4 to 6 months to
go through the eviction process — if so, | would still be paying for utilities or face tens of
thousands of dollars in fines, and maybe jail time if | shut off services. They would have
essentially had up to 8 months’ deferred rent, while | am still required to pay for
maintenance, property taxes, utilities, insurance and mortgage. | would still be faced with
the fees for cleanup and repair of damages once they vacate. Winning a court case takes
attorney fees, tenants get free legal advice. Although | would have a good chance to win in
court, the tenant will never pay the back rent owed.

This same tenant did the same thing to another landlord as she did to me. When in court,
the tenant’s former landlord won, however the tenant claimed hardship and said she could
not even pay the minimum judgement in a second court date. The tenant was absolved of
her debts to the former landlord — who never received a dime although she previously won
over a $5,000.00 judgement. This tenant lied in court, failed to mention she received money
for about a year which paid almost all of her rent-! knew this because | accepted payments
from the church who paid her rent, but unfortunately the tenant’s former landlord did not
know this during her second court appearance to counteract the tenant’s claim of
hardship.

What makes it difficult to address these issues is the lack of information on what the city’s
council members are proposing.

Questions Regarding Rental Registry:

What is the council’s goal for creating a rental registry?
Where can | get a copy of the data collected to support this idea?
Is there a fee involved in registering? Why is it the landlord’s responsibility to pay it?

| am already paying now to have a business license to operate a rental unit, is this rental
registration redundant?

Why does the city need rental data?
Who has the city consulted with regarding these proposals?

What is the data you want to collect in the rental registry?
aa G2 F-

749 of 891


--- page 750 ---
What are the criteria for what they call “standard Housing”?
Are AIR BNB, Bed and Breakfast, rooms for rent, Hotels, Motels, required to register?

What if a tenant fails to maintain the rental unit at the “standard Housing” criteria? A lot of
bad tenants will not allow a landlord in to do maintenance, nor tell a landlord if there are
needed repairs so that they wont be disturbed, and/or exposed violating their rental lease
agreements.

Is this registration a means to have mandatory rent control a flat rate across the board only
based upon the side number of bedrooms and bathrooms? Is this proposed law taking into
account the condition of the rentals - high-end materials verses cheap materials? Will it
consider that contractors, plumbers and such, will charge different rates for different
landlords for the same repairs?

Consider some landlords, like me, have put decades of rental money back into our rentals.
Not all landlords are treated fairly, and the nicer looking a rentalis, the more we get
charged for basic repairs because of the impression we give to handymen and the like that
we have higher rents and can afford to be taken advantage of — not the case, my rent is
always below market value. | do so to keep good tenants. Arbitrarily collecting data without
a purpose makes not sense. We already are required to register our rentals by getting a
business license _ SSF. Renters can get tax credits for renting for a minimum of one-half
year. Tax agency will already have data on how much a landlord has collected and is
required to declare on their taxes because of this.

What is beneficial is a National Tenant Registry. For obvious reasons for ICE, protecting
against overcrowding by landlord, as well as by tenants who are illegally subleasing to
multiple people - there is an undeclared tax revenue when these tenants are enriching
themselves with someone else’s investments; and these tenants assume no risks: more
damages, quicker wear and tear, liability. What if the tenant or the subtenants are the ones
creating unhealthy living conditions, who is liable the tenant or the landlord? Who gets

fined?

Code enforcements should be between the owner and the city and not subject to another
bureaucratic agency. Is there a fee involved in sending a code enforcement officer? It
seems to me to undermine the relationship between the tenants and the landlord. It is the
tenant’s responsibility to report any issues directly to the landlord, are they now going to
report issues directly to the city? Does the city really need to spend money on another

agency?

(“7 ®

750 of 891


--- page 751 ---
The proposal for a rental registry seems to be focused on:

Te

Policing landlords. Where does the city get the authority to do this? Whoever
oversees this, needs to submit their data summarizing it to the Federal agency —
HUD, and Senators. Policing landlords means they will draft policies against
landlords. If there is no “tenant registry” then this is purely one sided, biased against
landlords.

Entrapment. No wiggle room for landlords. They will be subject to legal challenges,
no free legal help to landlords. Is there a legal requirement for this rental registry?

The government has declared us landlords as having a cash producing asset rather
than just a home and we are expected to pay taxes on revenue, but what about the
tenant who illegally subleases a rental without the consent or knowledge of the
landlord? Are these tenants required to pay a fine? Register despite violating rental
agreements? Penalized for not paying taxes on the income from our rentals? Give
proceeds to landlords if caught subleasing and making a profit? Remember: cities
are businesses that require revenue to stay profitable. But it can not keep penalizing
landlords. The rental business is drying up because of this. We need a tenant
registry to capture lost revenue dollars when tenants sublease, and assist in
preserving our investments by ensuring rules, codes, and requirements are being
followed for the safety and protection for all concerned.

This proposed law is trying to determine my profit margin without considering my
risks and costs of operation. It does not consider the amount of profit redistributed
back into my rental property to make them modern and desirable by today’s
standard, nor the cost for maintenance and repairs. It does not consider what a
contractor will charge me vs another landlord, there is no consistency, and | seem to
get taken advantage of by unfamiliar contractors and businesses. The price to
replace my sewer laterals estimates from 3 different plumbing companies was:
$48,000.00; $58,000.00-$85,000.00 same company but different types of plumbing
methods; and $103,000.00. Realtors told me they paid $12,000.00 and it should not
cost that much.

My rentals stand above those landlords who do nothing to renovate their rentals,

therefore these landlords can afford to charge less rent. This being the case,
perhaps | will be required to change my approach and do nothing — leaving the unit

+ a

751 of 891


--- page 752 ---
for other tenants the way the last tenant left it, since the security deposits will not
even cover default rent nor the cost to bring the unit back to its original condition
after the tenants vacate. Maybe remove all appliances, requiring the tenant to
supply their own, less repairs and no cost for replacement to me. There is never
enough security deposit to cover even re-painting the unit, let alone other damage
to cabinets, countertops, flooring and more. We had a tenant who never told us of
smoke damage. The smoke permeated the entire house — even inside of closets. Our
insurance did not pay, because it was not considered a one-time event. It took
$5,600 to paint the interior of a 3-bedroom 2-bath house, the rent was $2,100.

We need to go back to allowing two months’ rent as security deposit, it should be
increased to three months regardless of whether the rental is under AB 1482 or not.

We need a Tenant Registry not a landlord-oriented registry. ICE might be interested
in this, as well as the state. | have heard of people from other states claiming
residency in CA during covid-19 to get money from the rent relief fund. Not one from
the government flagged them. The government did not require proof, nor did they
need the landlord to participate to write a check to the applicant. The tenant then
cashes the rent relief fund into his/her private account. As a landlord | hear and see
a lot of abuse of funding which is meant to help those in real dire need. Now when
California’s money runs out, they turn to the landlords to supply it and solve their
homeless problem. The problem with the government is that they choose to side
with those who have not put into our system. As a property and income tax payer, |
have yet to see my well-earned money go to my benefit and not someone who did
nothing.

We need to flag tenants who have been problematic, habitual “professional
Tenants’. We need accounting of everyone person who lives in the rental unit. Too
many times, due to the inability to raise the rent to market value due to AB 1482,
tenants will sublease the unit whether the tenant remains in the unit or not. | have
heard of a tenant turning his unit into an AIR BNB. This is a violation in my rental
contracts and as with other landlords will not endorse subleasing. Subleasing poses
risks of liability to the landlord, potential over crowding a unit without the landlord’s
knowledge due to the limitation created by law restricting their ability to inspect
their rental property during a tenant’s residency. Health and safety risks with
overcrowding, possible criminal activity such as drug dealing, prostitution, sex
trafficking, and unreported income by the tenant who is illegally subleasing.

Pige|o

752 of 891


--- page 753 ---
It is imperative we maintain control over our properties and take it out of the hands of
tenants, and their advocates who are not the solution but the problem.

Laws should be a two-way street, benefits to both landlords and tenants. This is not
the case here. The reality is that this bill is clearly prejudicial against the landlords,
and there are too many laws governing our livelihood as it is.

These policies are the continuation of California’s ideology of “social engineering” —
Laws already in place as those being proposed geared towards “redistributing”
income away from the landlord and unjustly placing it in the hands of undeserving
tenants. Tenants have nothing to lose, everything to gain. They assume no risk, no
responsibilities even for their own expenses which should be expected to occur
such as moving costs. As ahomeowner no one paid for our moving expenses when
we had to take a job out of state to continue to make a living. It is life. Tenants should
not get any rewards for moving costs, yet they do. Tenants are a temporary paying
guest/occupant, not permanent resident. Rentals are not solutions to the housing
problem. Lower interest rates, affordable housing for purchase, guidance on how to
establish good credit, and encouraging education for financial stability and
punishing problematic tenants is.

California overrides my contracts and it is impossible to evict a bad tenant based on
“fault” eviction — even now it is being considered that the tenant can go on not
paying rent, it takes 4-6 months to evict them based on non-payment of rent, but
even winning a judgement against the tenant, they can give a check for rent on the
day of eviction. This proposed law will cause tremendous hardship on landlords.
Fewer and fewer landlords are re-renting their properties due to these absurd

proposals.
Summary:

Tenants are in a temporary arraignment and must assume the cost of moving not the
landlord.

Good tenants cause the landlords to self-regulate their rental policies.
There is no need to look at creating new rental regulations since there is no risk of
being a tenant except losing their tenancy due to an unforeseen change in the

{ a9 \\

753 of 891


--- page 754 ---
landlord’s situation. Landlords should be allowed the same opportunity to have the
freedom to change their situation without government interference.

Rental Registry is biased against landlords. Data collected will only be used to harm
the landlord ability to make a living based upon their own standards and not the
government lumping everyone into a “one size fits all” concerning rent control. A
landlord who improves his property should be allowed to charge rent accordingly
based upon renovations not limited to the number of bedrooms/bathrooms, and
location.

Privacy concerns with rental registry for both tenant and landlord.
Lack of data provided by consumer groups who favor tenants and spit on landlords.

These policies as beginning AB 1482 at the start of the tenancy is a forced
arraignment for the landlords. More time is needed to make sure the relationship
between tenants and landlord is agreeable.

Need to encourage a healthy relationship between tenant and landlords.

Increased cost at taxpayers expense associated with these re-dos in the tenant-
landlord laws. Where is the data to support these new policies?

The negative outweighs the positive. Landlords, like me are not going to re-rent our
properties if these laws get passed. Leading to fewer rental houses and duplexes.
Tenants will be forced into high rise apartments.

Lack of proof. Tenants behind these laws lie about their situation. Not enough
landlords are speaking up on their own behalf. Feeling helpless to fight for their
rights as respectable and necessary business owners.

There is no need for a landlord rental registry. Tenants could receive Non-refundable
renters’ credit they can claim this tax credit if they lived in a rental for at least half a
year. This will expose landlords who do not report rental income on their taxes. A
national tenants’ registry is needed for assisting such as with ICE, untapped income
from tenants illegally subleasing, and tenants who are double dipping into assisted
housing funds and discourage squatters.

ge (2

754 of 891


--- page 755 ---
A need to change the language due to political biases attached to the terms:
“landlord” equated with “privileged” “rich” “white”, and “tenant” equated with
“poor” “underprivileged” “minority”.

| prefer the terms below to facility a natural partnership between those who rent out
our homes and those who need temporary dwelling.

“Habitability investor” opposed to landlord.
“Temporary paying inhabitant” opposed to tenant.

| urge the council to consider these points carefully and engage in meaningful dialog
with both tenant and landlord representative to refine the proposed laws. It is in our
collective interest to create a housing environment that is fair, transparent, and

conductive to the well-being of all community members. Please do not follow the
template SF, East Bay and LA counties are doing - it is a failure.

G. T. Laughlin

page 3

755 of 891


--- page 756 ---
lo’ Outlook

Rent Control

From Trask Leonard cree

Date Sat 4/19/2025 2:26 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

No rent control in San Mateo, please.

Wayland Leonard

756 of 891


--- page 757 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Sat 4/19/2025 9:05 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Martin,

Please see below.

From: Trask Leonard {je

Sent: Saturday, April 19, 2025 2:31 PM
To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

Say no to rent Control.

Wayland Leonard

757 of 891


--- page 758 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From is Leung re

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lisa Leung

758 of 891


--- page 759 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From sa Leung {ie

Date Sat 4/19/2025 6:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

We own 5 houses in San Mateo County and are responsible owners who take pride in maintaining our properties
and responding immediately to our tenant concems.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lisa Leun

759 of 891


--- page 760 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:53 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Ines Malardino rr
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 3:53 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

Ines Malardino
Broker Associate

760 of 891


--- page 761 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — Opposed to Introduction of New Laws

via votervoice.ne

Date Fri 4/18/2025 5:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Please keep in mind that beyond introducing complications for non-corporate owners, these proposed regulations
will have one or both of the following outcomes across our community:

1) Reduction in rental unit quality as less is invested into upkeep and improvements.

2) Inflated rents for incoming tenants to offset new costs, rent limitations, and risk of unexpected payments.

The best policy is to support the sensible development of new housing to increase supply. This solution prevents
unsustainable regulation upon local owners while providing renters with more options. With more units available,
landlords must compete to provide the best quality while keeping rents within reason as demand is lowered. This
environment is tenant-friendly without asking owners to risk the financial viability of their properties when
maintaining, improving, and leasing living spaces.

Thank you for you consideration.

Sincerely,

Kyle McCreight

761 of 891


--- page 762 ---
Oh Outlook

Adopt "One Home San Mateo" eviction policy proposals

From Acheigh vers

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:31 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

April 18, 2025

San Mateo City Councilmembers:

San Mateo County Democracy for America, a chartered Democratic club, commends the San Mateo City
Council’s commitment to finding ways to expand renter protections in San Mateo, in order to provide
stable and secure housing in times that are increasingly insecure.

Because renters are so vulnerable to the traumatic life-changing effects of unjust evictions, we urge you
to adopt the five eviction protection policy proposals from the “One Home San Mateo” coalition* at your
San Mateo City Council meeting on Monday, April 21.

The “One Home San Mateo” proposals:

1. Just cause for evictions from Day One

2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
3. Right to return after a substantial remodel

4. Increased relocation assistance

5. Creation of a rental data registry

* “One Home San Mateo” coalition members:

Housing Leadership Council

Peninsula Solidarity Cohort

San Mateo Climate Action Team

The Latino Ministry of the Congregational Church of San Mateo
Peninsula for Everyone

Housing Action Coalition

The League of Women Voters of North & Central San Mateo County
United Way Bay Area

Again, thank you for your leadership on behalf of renters in San Mateo.

762 of 891


--- page 763 ---
Sincerely,

Susie Raye
Chair
San Mateo County Democracy for America

763 of 891


--- page 764 ---
Oh Outlook

FW: Expansion of Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 4:25 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Bill McQuaid
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 4:24 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Expansion of Rent Control

My wife and | own a five unit apartment building in San Mateo.

We are opposed to any expansion of rent control in San Mateo.

We don't need more bureaucracy in the form of a rental registry and other onerous regulations.
.The state’s Tenant Protection Act of 2019 already provides comprehensive rent control and
eviction protections. The more regulations, the more likely "mom and pop" landlords like us, will
"throw in the towel" and sell out to a corporate type entity that can

afford legal counsel to navigate and decipher the more and more

complex nature of owning a small property.

If the desire of the City of San Mateo is to encourage the corporate

ownership of local real estate, more rent control and tenant eviction

protections is certainly a step in the right direction.

Bill and Maureen McQuaid

764 of 891


--- page 765 ---
Oh Outlook

Rent Control Special Study Session 4/21/25

Date Thu 4/17/2025 4:06 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,
| am firmly against expanding AB1482.
Good tenants have adequate protection.

Expanding the protections will only encourage bad tenants and their attorneys to exploit the legal
process further. The courts already favor the tenants and have burdened good landlords with false
habitability claims, groundless retaliatory claims, etc. These types of cases are brought by predatory
law firms that game the system with bad tenants encouraged to play the game. Insurance companies
and landlords are being exploited with false claims due to added rent control and tenant protections.

What we need is more affordable rental housing, market-rate apartment buildings, etc.
Expanding AB1482 will discourage further future rental housing development.

| have been in the real estate business since 1978, | am a landlord in San Mateo, Alameda County, and
San Francisco. | currently deal with San Francisco's Rent Board that added a new rental registry which
adds to the yearly reporting and additional fees that all landlords have to incur.

| am 100 percent against adding any registry, as Landlords are already burdened with filing
requirements, rising insurance rates, rising maintenance costs due to rising labor and material costs.
These added requirements make any future and current landlord think twice about having a future as
a rental provider.

Rising operating expenses make rent control properties very hard to properly maintain and have
forced numerous mom-and-pop operators to sell out.

Property turnovers have led to larger rent increases due to higher maintenance costs and renovations
by investment groups with deep pockets.

| have numerous long-term tenants in San Mateo that have not seen any rent increases from me for
over 5 years.

| just recently had to send out a modest rent increase to one of my tenants due to the possibility of
added rent control concerns and the rent is still 15 to 20 percent below market.

No one understands how rent control hurts both landlords and tenants alike.

765 of 891


--- page 766 ---
As for more tenant protections, | can only state this: | have been a real estate broker since 1981 and
back in the early '80s a simple tenant lease with disclosures totaled no more than four pages. The
current CAR residential lease form with state-mandated disclosures now totals approximately 23

pages.

In closing, | believe AB1482 in its current form provides more than adequate tenant protections.

Sincerely,

George Mitropoulos

George Mitropoulos
Metro Properties

766 of 891


--- page 767 ---
Gh Outlook

RE: New Business Item #10 - Tenant Protection

Date Mon 4/21/2025 9:54 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

4/21/25

TO: City of San Mateo, Council and Staff
FROM: Suzanne Moore

RE: New Business Item #10 - Tenant Protection

Honorable Council members and staff.
Thank you for prioritizing tenant protection as part of your Housing Element.

My name is Suzanne Moore, sitting Board Member for Healthcare for the Homeless and Farmworkers
Program, and | speak for myself this evening.

Eviction remains one of the greatest barriers to finding another home; therefore, preventing evictions
is an obvious way to best assist tenants and interrupt the homelessness pipeline.

Here are how some communities chose to decrease evictions: they adopted ordinances

- that extend just cause for eviction from day one,

- ban junk fees in leases and halt THAT path to eviction for failure to pay,

- require landlords to provide access to tenant legal aid as they serve an eviction. Tenants who have an
attorney present in eviction court are more likely to stay housed.

I'm grateful to landlords who provide safe, affordable housing for our neighbors. Our tenants are an
important part of our community. We, as a community, can adopt ordinances that guide and protect.

Thank you.

Suzanne Moore

767 of 891


--- page 768 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

You are trying to take away my rights as a small rental provider. My husband and | have worked hard and
sacrificed to purchase, maintain, and provide housing at lower than average rents. Our costs are rising with
insurance increases, property tax increases, bond, measures, utilities, etc. How dare you try to pass regulations
protecting other individual 's needs to be more important than mine. Your new regulations will make it impossible
for me to keep my rental properties and keep providing fair market rents. Who are you people to be making
decisions which directly negatively effects my rights and financial future? | truly believe what you are proposing is

illegal.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city's renters.

Sincerely,

Laura nagle

768 of 891


--- page 769 ---
oh Outlook

FW: On Further Tenant Protections

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:11 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Martin - please see below. It went to councilmembers, but not the City Council email...
Rachel

-----Original Message---—

From: Doris Nishimoto

Sent: Monday, April 21, 2025 12:52 PM

To: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-
Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst
<rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Noel Nish

Subject: On Further Tenant Protections

Policy induced methods to hold landlords hostage to the situational distress of a breach of contract between
landlord and tenant is not the solution.

The "off ramp" to this problem is recognizing and addressing the deficiencies between eamed income and the
need to deregulate an environment that has ADDED costs to provider housing. Please, no more added costs of
rent registries and creation of a new department to monitor the housing market in the private market. Instead, this
money could be used as rental subsidies and would have a direct and meaningful impact for tenants.

The current rental security deposit that is allowed is insufficient to cover "wear and tear" tumaround costs for an
apartment and also for the proposed "move out" (up to 3 months rent) you are considering for tenants due to AB12
bill:

In California, Assembly Bill 12 (AB 12), which went into effect on July 1, 2024, limits security deposits for most
landlords to one month's rent, regardless of whether the unit is fumished or unfurnished. This law

amends California Civil Code Section 1950.5. There are exceptions, including for smaller landlords (those who own
two or fewer properties with a total of four or fewer rental units) who may still be able to collect up to two months'
rent.

Thank you for reading.

Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.

769 of 891



--- page 770 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Ann Odonoghve iii

Date Sun 4/20/2025 8:30 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

The attack on landlords continues! Why is it the city’s business what | am collecting in rent, this is my privately
owned property that worked hard to purchase. I’m not asking the Board of San Mateo for their private finances. It
seems like the State of Califomia wants to continue to punish people that have worked hard their whole lives to
purchase property to get ahead. I’m not sure why it is our responsibility to take care of everyone else in the state,
shouldn't that be States responsibility not the private sector!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Ann Odonoghue

770 of 891


--- page 771 ---
th Outlook
Housing Element Implementation — Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies

From Seema Pot! {i

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:45 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello City Councilmembers!

| currently serve as the Chair of the San Mateo Planning Commission but am writing on my own behalf as a resident of San Mateo.

In its certified Housing Element San Mateo commits to a Fair Housing Action Plan in order to Affirmatively Further Fair Housing as required by state law. The
actions in this plan include:

Policy H5.2.4: In conjunction with San Mateo County, develop a housing
mobility program that provides support to tenants seeking to move to high opportunity areas in the region. (No timeline given)

Action 4.1: Establish tenant protections in local ordinance to extend
measures of AB1482 related to relocation, documentation, and right to return policy in eviction cases.

Extend AB1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for
No Fault evictions for those with tenure less than one year. (Target timeline 2024)

Make recommendations to the City Council for establishing tenant

protection policies that include the requirement of documentation from landlords who use the substantial remodel exemption to evict tenants and a Rig
2026)

Amend the Code to strengthen enforcement penalty structure to aid
in protecting tenants from unsafe or substandard units. (Target timeline of 2024)

Action 4.2: Partner with Project Sentinel to perform fair housing
training for landlords and tenants. (Timeline Annual by July 1)

The
city also commits to Policy H 3.6, Monitor Rents, Evictions and Tenant Displacement Citywide, including:

a.

Research options and best practices for

a rental registry list, including determining necessary financial and human resources needed to establish such a program. Make recommendations to
City Council. (Target timeline 2024)

Collaborate with regional partners, such
as 21 Elements or ABAG, to develop ways to monitor rental rates, evictions and displacement citywide and countywide to track trends and use the
information to guide policy priorities. (Target timeline 2024-2031)

| encourage the City Council to follow through with these commitments to ensure that our Housing Element remains in compliance with the state, so that we
do not risk decertification and exposure to penalties like the Builder's Remedy.

Thank you for your consideration.

771 of 891


--- page 772 ---
Regards,
Seema Patel

772 of 891


--- page 773 ---
lo Outlook

FW: Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:52 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Nino rer on
Sent: Thursday, April'17, 2025 3:39 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

Hello

Please resist any rent control. It is hard enough to rent your property to anyone. Between
upkeep, utilities, taxes and repairs during and after a tenant leaves is hard enough. Renting
should be temporary for everyone. Making it harder to own will only push landlords to charge
as much as they possibly can.

Many landlords including myself pay the first 2-3 months rent to the county for property taxes.
The cost to replace just carpeting can eat up 6 months rent alone. The cost to repaint a unit
can cost another 6 month rent. If it was easy, everybody would do it.

Nino Perrone

773 of 891


--- page 774 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Michael Anthony <a

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Michael Anthon

774 of 891


--- page 775 ---
Oh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Jim Baba <a
Date Sun 4/20/2025 9:00 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Council Members:

As a housing provider it has been most challenging the last 5 years. Costs have gone up tremendously, let alone
my insurance cost which has increased 2.5 times over the past year. I'm just now getting my rents back to pre-
Covid levels, as | reduced rents during that time for my current tenants to align with the rental rate of new tenants
coming in. During this time my costs have skyrocketed. We already have plenty of state and city laws on behalf of
tenants, and do not need to further burden housing providers. Furthermore, after reading the Letter from Your City
Manager, | learned that San Mateo faces a structural budget deficit. Creating a rent registry would be costly, and
there are concems over privacy.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Jim Baba

775 of 891


--- page 776 ---
Gh Outlook

Vote NO on AB 1157

From Zarine Batliwalla ee

Date Fri 4/18/2025 8:56 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Voters and economists alike have warned about the dangers of rent control — and voters have
rejected it at the ballot box again and again. Propositions 10, 21, and 33 were all defeated by more
than 20 percentage points.

Now AB 1157 ignores the will of the voters and threatens to drive even more rental housing out of the
market. Slashing the rent cap to just 2% plus inflation will force many small property owners to sell or
convert their properties, displacing tenants and worsening the housing shortage.

Rental housing providers didn't create California's housing crisis. Penalizing them with punitive rent
caps only makes the situation worse.

Research from institutions like Stanford University and the California Legislative Analyst's Office has
shown that strict rent control reduces housing availability, discourages new construction, and

ultimately harms renters.

Please vote No on AB 1157.

photo Zarine Batliwalla

w.photo

776 of 891


--- page 777 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Vote NO on AB1157

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:15 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Public comment for 4/21.

Rachel

From: Zarine Batwa <i

Sent: Friday, April 18, 2025 8:57 AM
To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Vote NO on AB1157

Voters and economists alike have warned about the dangers of rent control — and voters have
rejected it at the ballot box again and again. Propositions 10, 21, and 33 were all defeated by
more than 20 percentage points.

Now AB 1157 ignores the will of the voters and threatens to drive even more rental housing out
of the market. Slashing the rent cap to just 2% plus inflation will force many small property
owners to sell or convert their properties, displacing tenants and worsening the housing
shortage.

Rental housing providers didn’t create California’s housing crisis. Penalizing them with punitive
rent caps only makes the situation worse.

Research from institutions like Stanford University and the California Legislative Analyst's Office
has shown that strict rent control reduces housing availability, discourages new construction,
and ultimately harms renters.

Please vote No on AB 1157.

777 of 891


--- page 778 ---
778 of 891


--- page 779 ---
Gh Outlook

Letter to City Council

From Rustard Mustard <r

Date Mon 4/21/2025 9:01 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob
Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Honorable Mayor and City Council,

In my professional life, I have worked 1 on 1 with individuals and families who were
physically and emotionally damaged by living in squalor in San Mateo. I have seen
conditions that you would never, ever allow yourself to live in. I have seen children
covered with bedbug sores on their entire bodies, homes that were infested with
mold on large sections of multiple rooms, ceilings with holes and water dripping,
stoves that didn't properly work, rodent droppings and so forth.

Over the years while my husband was serving as the Mayor and Council member, I
accompanied him when he got calls about Renter's needs.

If you think there is no need for Renter Protections at this time, then I have some

places for you to see and people to meet. I invite you to tour the reality and I

will be your tour guide.

I know a lot of landlords who are good people. They have nothing to worry about.

It is the ones who do nothing for their properties and tenants that need to be
regulated.

779 of 891


--- page 780 ---
April 21, 2025
San Mateo City Council
San Mateo City Hall
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Re: Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policy Proposals - Housing Leadership Council of
San Mateo County
Dear Members of the San Mateo City Council,
The Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) works with communities and their leaders
to produce and preserve quality affordable homes.
On behalf of HLC, I am writing to encourage you to adopt the policy changes set forth by our partners at
“Our Home San Mateo.” These changes are focused on preventing evictions and helping to keep your
San Mateo renters in their homes.
Eviction is so much more than a forced move. It can be a life-altering event with serious and lasting
impacts on families—undermining their economic security, mental and physical health, and overall
well-being. For community members with limited resources, the costs of eviction can push them over a
financial cliff.
Eviction can be especially traumatizing for children. Often, when families are forced to move, children
abruptly lose their connections to neighborhood, church, and school. Their entire support system
collapses. Research shows eviction is linked to declines in academic performance and an increased risk
of involvement in the juvenile justice system.
In the interest of shielding families from the negative effects of eviction, HLC would like to encourage
you to adopt the following “Our Home San Mateo” anti-displacement and tenant protection policy
proposals:
1. Just cause for eviction from Day One
2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
3. Right to return after a substantial remodel
4. Increased relocation assistance
5. Creation of a rental data registry
780 of 891

--- page 781 ---
You have an opportunity to create a meaningful, lasting impact on the lives of your community members.
By adopting the proposed measures, you will be taking clear, tangible steps to protect San Mateo
families from the devastating effects of eviction and foster greater stability in your community. We urge
you to support these vital protections for your community members.
Sincerely,
Ken Chan
Senior Organizer
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403 • (650) 242-1764 • hlcsmc.org
781 of 891

--- page 782 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Luisa Chaver iii

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 12:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Luisa Chavez

782 of 891


--- page 783 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

rom iy Cron re

Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Proposed legislation like this just discourages small landlords to enter or stay in the rental market. | will exit the
rental industry and take my housing off the rental market completely if this type of legislation is passed because we
cannot afford this. It just unjustly punishes the landlord and place the entire burden of "affordable" housing on the
shoulders of landlord even though it is a systemic problem that is NOT created by the landlords and it should be
evaluated and inclusive of ALL perspectives, not just renters and activists.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lily Chen

783 of 891


--- page 784 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Jo-Ann De Rewer [i

via votervoice.net
Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:20 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Jo-Ann De Rewenda

784 of 891


--- page 785 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Why do you use a carrot with hi tec and a club on landlords? How about tax credits for below market rents?

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

785 of 891


--- page 786 ---
Oh Outlook

Opposing added Rent Control in San Mateo

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:09 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org
<akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel
Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

To:

Citv

Manager Alex Khojikian,
City

Attorney Prasanna Rasiah,
Housing

Manager Rachel Horst, and
City

Council members Rob Newsom (Mayor),
Lisa

Diaz Nash,

Adam

Lorraine,

Nicole

Fernandez

Gentlepersons:

Further rent control measures are not necessary in San Mateo. We have a state law for rent
control and an online calculator showing the rate at which

rent can be increased in each of California's 58 counties. It ls County Specific. There is a
maximum of 10% regardless of the cost of living and the allowable rate has hovered around
8%.

The cost of doing business has increased phenomenally, due for the most part to expenses for
which we have no control. All of the utilities have asked for and been granted rate increases.
PGE, has asked for and been granted rate hikes in one year, Recology has just about doubled
in 10 years, now it's $42 or $47 per can in South San Francisco, Comcast has just raised it's
business and residential rates. The water department - the costs for waste water now exceed
the cost for clean water. San Bruno stopped including this fee on the water invoice and now
includes it on the tax bill. There is that 10% cap on writing off taxes paid. Another loss.

There is also the topic of maintenance and repairs and permits for same. The costs for
plumbers, painters, electricians. has gone way up. Costs increased. If the average cost paid
before was $300-$500, now | have found that it's $700-$1000.

Also, new fees and license requirements have been implemented around the state. South San
Francisco now requires rental providers to obtain a business license. That's another $300+

Then we can look at tenants, payment of rent, security deposits and damages to the property.
Security deposits are now capped at the equivalent of one month's rent. So if you have an
apartment that you rent for $2,000 and the tenant backs into your garage door - that can cost
you $1000 if it's a partial repair. You repair the garage door because, aside from the esthetics,

786 of 891


--- page 787 ---
gaps will allow rodents to enter and that will lead to the health department and/or Vector control.
Then the tenant rolls into it again, another $1000 - you've maxed the security deposit.

By the way, the tenant rolls into the door because, contrary to the lease (so written to prevent
precisely this), parks right up to the door.

You can't ask them to replenish the deposit if you'd raised the rent in the same year because
you'd then be exceeding the maximum annual percentage for an increase. If nothing else, you
could end up in court to "discuss".

This was not a hypothetical!

A property owner can live with the state mandated rent control in it's present form. Implementing
rent control as outlined, you are facilitating the demise of the small property owner. A property
owner cannot be expected to subsidize California's renters, and yet, that is the direction to
which property owners are being forcibly herded.

The reality is that costs everywhere have skyrocketed. Measures like these should be fairly
considered. You Must Consider Both Sides.

The tenant is not always right. You cannot lump all tenants or all property owners in the same
box.

Just like many other issues raised in your meetings there are already measures in place to
address bad behavior whether on the part of the landlord or the tenant.

Adding more controls to rentals in San Mateo will create more and unnecessary problems and
delays.

Please do not implement San Mateo specific rent control.

Rita Fontana

787 of 891


--- page 788 ---
City of San Mateo Council Members: Concerning New Tenant Landlord Laws

Council members, | have reviewed proposed changes affecting my rentals in California.

| am opposed to the proposals; they will negatively affect the business.

| believe these changes are hostile, poorly thought out and lack understanding of the basic

business principles, chiefly economic reality.

In my opinion, the rental registry is the lesser of the concerns because if the changes
in “just cause” and additional “relocation” proposal pass a large number of rentals
will become economically unsustainable and the rental registry will be a colossal

failure.

Let’s look at the basic balance sheet for the average landlord. The cashflow probably
looks great to most folks but the net profit is an entirely different story.

Income: Monthly rental charges. Full tenancy for a year is not realistic, there are repairs to
be made after a tenant leaves.

Costs: Property Tax, Property Insurance (if you can acquire it), painting costs after a tenant
moves out, State of California Tax, Federal Tax, Gardening fees, legal expenses, CPA costs,
repair and cleanup losses can often be greater than the rental deposit allowed by AB 1482

and nearly impossible to collect on.

Considerations:

1. The life expectancy for most appliances is less than 8 years.
2. Property insurance in California is becoming increasingly more expensive if

available.
3. Inthe past 4 years nationally the inflation rate exceeded 22% based on the Bureau

of Labor Statistics, the Bay Area exceeds this figure.
4. Many landlords use rental income to augment their retirement income and already

face aconomic/health challenges.

788 of 891


--- page 789 ---
5. Some tenants will sublet without the landlord’s permission and pocket the
undeclared income.

6. Belongings let behind cause large losses for the landlord.

7. Anon-contested eviction generally takes about 45 days, while a contested one
around 60-75.

8. The rental registry will add costs to the landlord and likely be passed along to the
tenant if they are excessive. This includes inspections which are difficult if not
impossible under AB 1482.

9. The rental registry will likely end up in litigation due to shortcomings/data risks for

the landlord and tenants.
10. Data collected by the rental registry will be shared with Federal agencies.

Welfare Recipients by State 2025
Bottom

California

Texas
New York
Florida
Illinois

PennsyivanialliiiiTéM)
Georgia
Ohio 1.5M
North

Carolina

ADiahinan aisles py) Y oy

SNAP Recipients June 2022
a) iM @ 2m @3m @4m @5m

https://worldpopulationreview.com/state-rankings/welfare-recipients-by-state

Thank you for your time and attention,

Gary Laughlin

789 of 891


--- page 790 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21, 2025

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:52 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Omar Galinlo [rrr

Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 3:36 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>; akohjikian@cityofsanmateo.org; City Attorney's

Office <CityAttorneysOffice @cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Maria Manzo Sa
Subject: Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21, 2025

Omar Galindo

April 17, 2025

San Mateo City Council
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Subject: Opposition to Proposed Rent Control Regulations — Study Session April 21,
2025

Dear Honorable Mayor and City Council Members,

As a rental housing provider and long-time member of the San Mateo community, | am writing
to express my strong opposition to the proposed changes to the City’s rental housing
regulations, scheduled for review during the upcoming study session on Monday, April 21, 2025.

While | understand the Council's intent to address housing concerns and tenant protections, the
proposed amendments—particularly the immediate application of “just cause” protections from
the start of a tenancy, the increase in relocation assistance for no-fault terminations, and the
implementation of a rent registry—present serious concerns for local property owners like
myself.

| currently own and manage the following rental properties in San Mateo:

1. Immediate Just Cause Protections:
Under California law (AB 1482), the 12-month period before “just cause” protections apply

790 of 891


--- page 791 ---
allows landlords to make informed decisions about tenants during a reasonable trial period.
Eliminating this window removes a critical tool for property owners to ensure tenants are a good
fit, and may discourage future investment in rental housing within San Mateo.

2. Increased Relocation Assistance:

While | support fair and reasonable relocation compensation in genuine no-fault circumstances,
raising these requirements substantially above state mandates creates additional financial
burdens on landlords, particularly small-scale providers. These policies can lead to difficult and
unintended consequences, such as deferred maintenance or reduced housing availability,
which ultimately harm both landlords and tenants.

3. Rent Registry Requirements:

Mandatory submission of rent roll data introduces ongoing administrative obligations that are
both intrusive and unnecessary. Most landlords are already in compliance with applicable state
law and local codes. Arent registry adds complexity without offering meaningful insight or
benefit, especially for mom-and-pop landlords already stretched thin by compliance and
maintenance costs.

These proposals signal a shift toward overly punitive policies that disregard the challenges
faced by responsible landlords. As a member of the rental housing community, | take pride in
maintaining my properties and treating tenants with fairness and respect. | urge the City Council
to reconsider this approach and work collaboratively with property owners to create policies that
balance tenant protections with the viability and sustainability of rental housing providers.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. | respectfully ask you to oppose the adoption of
these regulations and instead pursue balanced solutions that encourage housing investment
while supporting tenants.

Sincerely,

Omar Galindo and Maria G. Manzo
San Mateo Property Owner & Housing Provider

791 of 891


--- page 792 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Thalia Georgopcus [i

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Thalia Georgopoulos

792 of 891


--- page 793 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — Slow Down! No New Laws!

From William Gorrran <r

Date Fri 4/18/2025 11:20 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

William Gorman

793 of 891


--- page 794 ---
ch Outlook
Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 11:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

794 of 891


--- page 795 ---
oh Outlook
Tenant Protections

Fern ae

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:30 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

This letter is to express my opposition to tenant protection policies you are proposing. Here's
why:

1. The people of San Mateo have already expressed their opposition to expansive rent
control beyond State Rent Control AB 1482. 60% of San Mateo voters voted against
Measure Q rent control several years ago and 62% recently voted against State Rent Control
eposmon 33. Are you just not listening/remembering or are you marching to your own
drummer‘?

2. What is the motive for setting up a rental registry and charging landlords for setting up
a bureaucracy to implement it? The obvious one is to install punitive/restrictive rent price
caps beyond the AB1482. All this will reduce the landlord’s income even more. If this is not the
motive, then there are many other free sources to obtain rental information without setting up a
landlord funded bureaucracy.

Nearly 46% of rental housing units are small rental properties of 1-4 units. Over 70% of these
are owned by individuals and managed by the same owners. These small Mom and Pops rely
on this investment not only for current income, but also like a 401K, for current or future
retirement income. They are entitled to make a reasonable profit for hard work to help them get
there. If they don’t, properties will be sold, taken off the rental market, limited new rentals added
and money put into other more profitable investments.

Mom and Pops are already facing challenging maintenance costs. The average home in San
Mateo was built in 1965. 48% of renter-occupied units are 55-95 years old. These units are
increasingly in need of costly maintenance/replacements and exacerbated with high inflation
rates and maintenance costs that continue to exceed that. Costs are becoming very significant
such as conversion from gas to electric appliances, energy efficient windows, roofs, plumbing,
sewer pipes, foundations, fences, concrete/hardscape, furnaces, electrical wiring/panels,
painting, insulation etc. added to property taxes and mortgage costs. Also, the wild fire crisis in
California is causing rental property insurance costs to escalate for all areas statewide to make
up for high localized property loses.

795 of 891


--- page 796 ---
3. The rental registry is a bad idea from so many points of view besides the financial
burden talked about in #2. Sharing rental information can raise privacy issues for both tenant
and landlord. This information could drive up prices if landlords see neighboring units paying
higher prices.

It’s going to be an added administrative burden upon landlords along with all the other State
laws that require many pages of documentation. Some landlords may not comply, unaware,
forget, leading to incomplete data. If the number of rental laws get too onerous, landlords will
become so overwhelmed with the administrative burden that they will sell and exit the rental
market and thereby avoid adding new rental properties. Trying to enforce this will be very
difficult for the city. Simple solutions to complicated problems never work.

Respectfully,

Gary lsoardi

796 of 891


--- page 797 ---
ch Outlook
Tenant Proposals

For

Date Mon 4/21/2025 8:05 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

| am a small Housing Provider (1-4 units) and | oppose the proposed rental restrictions:

San Mateo Voters Have Already Spoken

The people of San Mateo have already spoken against expansive rental restrictions beyond AB1482
with measure Q several years ago with a 60% vote against and recently state proposition 33 with a
62% vote against.

Small Housing Providers Represent A Significant Share of Rental Units
46% of rental units are small Housing Providers, ma and pops
Over 70% of those are managed by small Housing Providers

Rental Buildings Are Aging Significantly
Average house in San Mateo was built in 1965.
48% of San Mateo renter-occupied units are 55-95 years old

Aging Rental Buildings Are Causing Significant Maintenace Costs

Because of the aging, maintenance costs are increasing significantly- Gas to electric appliances,
sewer laterals, electrical panel upgrades, roofs, galvanized to copper plumbing, foundations,
earthquake retrofit, hardscape, energy efficient windows, furnaces etc. And maintenance costs are
far exceeding the already high inflation rate. Added to that are escalating statewide insurance costs
due to wild fire crisis plus mortgage and property taxes.

Rental Housing Proposals will worsen Negative Cash Flow

Alot of small Housing Providers already face negative cash flow (i.e. expenses exceed rents) fora
long time until it turns positive. And Small Housing Providers hope it will turn positive before
retirement. Rentals are like a retirement 401K plan.

Rent Registry Will Morph Into Punitive Rent Restrictions
The rent registry can only be looked at as an eventual punitive rent reduction bureaucracy with
added Housing Provider costs and greater reduction of income for landlords.

Financial Instability, Over Regulation Will Cause Reduction in Rental Inventory

What all this means is financial instability for small Housing Providers. It will also force rental unit
sales, discourage new rental purchases, encourage investment in better financial opportunities and
reduce rental inventory. Added discouragement will be the burden of the numerous state and local
laws and regulations that will become too onerous to deal with for the small Housing Provider.

There Are Other Options

797 of 891


--- page 798 ---
The city should redirect its focus to supporting programs that provide rental assistance assistance
through community funded solutions and invest in robust outreach that educate renters and housing
providers on the laws already available for land-lord tenant issues.

Also, | hear these proposals might be included in the Housing Element which is a State mandate,
but it does not apply there. Is this some backroom dealing going on to get these proposals
implemented?

Respectfully

Gary Isoardi

798 of 891


--- page 799 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

As a small business owner, this is an attack on my livelihood. This is NOT San Francisco, and is a much smaller
city. Please do not force these requirements on small business owners like me.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

J. Ga

799 of 891


--- page 800 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Chris Krause [ae

Date Fri 4/18/2025 9:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Absolutely not!! You renter activists are out of your f ing kind!! Go buy a house like the rest of us!!!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Chris Krause

800 of 891


--- page 801 ---
City of San Mateo Council Members Concerning New Tenant-Landlord Laws

Dear City Council Members,

lam writing to express my deep concern regarding the recently proposed tenant-Landlord
Laws that are under review by the city council. As an owner and manager of rental property
in San Mateo County for almost 30 years, and as a former long-term resident, third
generation, | feel compelled to share my perspective on how these laws could impact both
tenants and landlords.

lam against these new tenant landlord proposals:

Proposals included but not limited to:

Applying “just cause” provisions starting on Day 1 of tenancy instead of after year 1
Increasing relocation payment of no-fault terminations

Requiring housing procedures to submit rent roll data through a rent registry

The new regulations propose harsher control and greater oversight of rental agreements.
While | understand the intention behind these measures is to protect tenants from unfair
practices, itis crucial to consider the ramifications for landlords as well. Many landlords,
as |, are small-scale property owners who rely on rental income to support their families
and maintain their properties. Imposing excessive regulations could discourage them, as
with me, from renting out their properties, potentially reducing the availability of housing
and driving up rental prices. Overall, good tenants lose good housing tailored to their
needs. No one wants to live in a “beehive” apartment complex full of unknowns, as in the
newly built “stack um and pack um” apartments littered along the freeway. | get applicants
coming from these apartments for my rental homes.

AB-1482 was not a necessary law. Good tenants are in demand, long term tenants were
always the goal for landlords. Rental housing is self-regulating by prospective tenants. Ifa
landlord does not maintain their rental, stay in competition with other high demand rentals,
or the rents are too high, good tenants will find other rentals -which defeats the overall goal
of the landlord. The one-year time frame for this law to be imposed after the tenant moves
in is not long enough. One year is not an investment for a tenant, | have had one family stay
up to 15 years — that is an investment worth allowing them one month’s free rent if there is a
no-fault eviction - which | have not had to do to date.

Proposing AB-1482 to begin at the start of a tenancy has no justification:

Page 1- OS r1g jorne \

801 of 891


--- page 802 ---
1. It appears that this law is geared towards companies with hundreds of units. The
owner of a handful of properties, such as myself, has much greater consequences
for each property than a corporation with hundreds of units scattered across several
states and /or cities within California. A single bad tenant can bankrupt a small
landlord who doesn’t have the legal staff, does maintenance on their own as
opposed to live in handymen such as in large apartments, and (for landlords | am
friends with, and including myself) might be facing age-related health issues which
appear out of nowhere. We need the longer time frame in case of emergencies,
other contingencies which require us to put our rental up for sale or do major repairs

that were unplanned.

2. The start of AB 1482 at the beginning of a tenancy does not allow the landlord the
opportunity to find out if a tenant is honorable or not.

The Bay Area is the most desirable place to live in CA. Many homes are up to if not more
than $1 million investments. Landlords have mortgages, such as us, we entrust our
personal property to complete strangers. One year is not enough time to truly get to know
tenants. We landlords need at the least one full year (actually more like three years) to
ensure that the tenant is not taking advantage of us —- such as using our rentals to establish
an AIR BNB and other unauthorized subleasing activities; also potential illegal activities —
sex trafficking, drug dealing, prostitution and so forth. Landlords must the opportunity to
come in and inspect the unit to make sure it’s being care for the way the rental contract
specifies. If this law is imposed on day one, it gives us no opportunity to ensure our
investment is secured since landlords are not allowed or discouraged to enter the unit
unless the tenant complains about a needed repair. We can enter to do maintenance, but
that is usually one year after the tenant moves in (such as replacing smoke detector /CO2
batteries), but by then, the unit could be trashed. Imposing AB 1482 at the start of a
tenancy will drive more landlords out of the rental business and cause real estate business
to stagnate. Large investors have already stopped building due to the insecurity as well as
the cyclical nature of funding for these developments. | have seen new apartments built
and not filled to capacity to date.

It does not seem fair to allow a tenant to move in, and if there is an unforeseen event which
requires them to move, they should not be allowed 2-3 months’ worth of rent to enrich
themselves at the owner’s expense. | invested over $100,000 to $150,000 to re-renovate my

(or >

802 of 891


--- page 803 ---
rentals prior to the tenants moving in. | was still making payments on this loan, when one
family of tenants suddenly decided they could not pay rent. They used Covid-19 (as many
others did) as an excuse to stop paying rent. These tenants were investigated and denied
assistance by a charity who determined the tenants had the means to pay rent. However,
tenants persisted and enrolled in the Covid-19 rent relieve fund. Even this agency flagged
them because they saw on their application that they were already getting funds from yet a
another charity organization — double dipping into the relief funds. Despite all of this, they
did not pay rent. | was forced to participate in Covid-19 Rent Relief Fund to get paid rent or
it would go into the hands of the tenants directly and | would not see it. | needed to pay my
debts for my renovations as well as maintenance, as well as make some profit to live on. It
took many months to get paid by the rent relieve fund. | was forced to take a 25%
deduction of rent for several of these months. The rent was already below market. If | could,
| would have sold this property then to pay my bills, but no one was buying. It was a
stressful time.

To complicated our lives further, these same tenants falsely accused me of discrimination
because they claimed that | told one of them to put their dog on a leash. They were in
violation of the rental agreement by having two unauthorized dogs sharing a common
backyard with another set of tenants. The tenants’ dogs were both large breeds, and one
was very aggressive towards strangers — handymen, other tenants, gardeners and me. It
should have been easy to evict based upon faulty eviction because they were in violation of
our rental agreement, but this is not the case. After the tenants received coaching by a
well-known Bay Area Non-Profit group who sides with tenants, both dogs were declared
ESA after the tenants and they were allowed to keep the dogs and continue to reside in the
rental. Despite having aggressive dogs, my attorney told me that they dogs would have to
bite someone before | could ask them to get rid of their now ESA’s.

The issue started when | discovered that their were 2 dogs on the premises. | asked them to
removed one of them, their choice, the tenants pleaded with me to allow them time to re-
home the dog. They asked me if | would allow this if they out their dogs ona leash in the
common backyard, and started training so the dog would be adoptable. | accommodated
them and allowed many months. But after complaints, | brought up the subject again —
move or get rid of the dog. They refused to do either. To keep both dogs and reside in a very
nice home, they declared both dogs ESA and claimed / asked them to put the dogs ona
leash. This they learned how to extort money by studying all the angles of the law. Now
encouraged by the tenant’s representative working for the non-profit group, the tenants
claimed by having to leash their dogs exacerbated their stress and proceeded to extort
$50,000 from me. These tenants planned to move out prior to this due to construction
noise in the area but were looking for a way to enrich themselves. They lied, and it took a

Rag ?

803 of 891


--- page 804 ---
year out of our lives to prove them wrong. My life savings were gone to pay for my attorney’s
fees to defend myself from her outrageously false claim. | ultimately won and the case was
dismissed by the state but with a cost to me and my family. Our mental, emotional and
physical health was adversely affected. This is the start of my husband’s cancer symptoms.
If this is not enough, | discovered the same tenants who claimed they could not afford to
pay rent were subleasing out, making money off of my property while | struggled to pay my
bills and had to ask the contractors for an extension to continue to pay them. The mother of
this group of tenants appears to not have even been living in the unit while she claimed she
was putting her dog on a leash. No other person, including me, have ever seen either dog
on a leash during their occupancy.

It is imperative that there is a “grace” period for a landlord to get to really know their
tenants, one year is not enough. | wish | had listened to my inner voice telling me not to rent
to this family, but they lied to get into my property, and | took them based upon their word. |
discovered later on, the tenant’s former landlord lied to me in order to get rid of them, and
the tenants habitually sued people/companies to get ahead in life —1 coined the term
“professional tenant” after them and use this to educate other landlords and realtors. My
point is, you never Know what a tenant will do, it takes time to get to know them, and for
information to appear which can be detrimental to landlords.

| have rented to all types of people, in various economic situations. If the economy is bad,
and my tenant cannot pay, a have allowed them to stay without payment. They eventually
will get back on their feet and pay rent. Landlord-tenant relationship is a relationship. | have
been told | am a great landlord, one tenant has named me God Mother of their child, and
another named me Aunt to her child. | have remained friends with many tenants. Especially
those who lived in one unit of my duplex when | lived in the other. We were like family. | have
been more than accommodating, fair minded, never charging late fees. However, the
government is undermining my rental contracts which have evolved over the decades. My
rental agreements were simple in the beginning. They are now over 102 pages long due to
lengthy rental agreements, as well as addendums and educational material.

The amount of documentation, photos, texts, has caused me to buy more storage devices
and cellular phones to keep all the necessary information in case | get sued by a tenant. It
is aconstant stress. | have not re-rented 3 units due to the constant stress of the unfair
laws punishing landlords. | have tried to sell the two units, but no one is willing to invest in
rental property. |am on my second, perhaps third, realtor trying to find a buyer. To make
matters worse, the “stack um and pack um” apartments which have been erected across
from my property has lowered the value tremendously. | have re-invested the rental income

di sa 4

804 of 891


--- page 805 ---
back into my rentals for decades and no longer have a saving account due to the
unscrupulous former tenant. Now in my sixties, my rentals were to be my retirement, but |
cannot even sell them to retire on or pay off our mortgage.

The proposal of offering 2-3 months rent towards relocation in non-fault evictions is
unjust, bias against landlords.

What does this mean? Does this mean the tenants get 2-3 months’ worth of rent paid to
them after they vacate the premises? Does this mean 2-3 months of rent-free living in the
rental prior to vacating? What if the rental unit is left in disarray, major damage, and
previously unpaid rent and the tenant’s security deposit is not enough to cover the costs?
We are only allowed to charge one -months’ worth of rent. It is not fair to give tenants
money when they owe more than 2-3 months’ worth of rent upon vacating. There is no
assurance that the tenants will leave the rental in good repair. My experience has been that
the tenants always leave the rental with more repairs greater than what a two month’s rent
security deposit will pay for; and in some cases, unpaid rent brings up to three months of
needed security deposit. Once | took a tenant to court for unpaid rent, damages and other
fees which were almost $10,000. | won, hired a collection agency who were unsuccessful,
decades later | still have not received any monies owned to me. | have taken many loses by
not having being able to charge enough security deposit to cover damages from former
tenants. This deficient contributes to raising the rent for the new tenants.

What concerns me is the limited rent increases under the AB 1482 law, which do not take
into consideration the real costs of ownership. Most tenants, including their advocates, do
not know the cost of maintaining real property. | have worked physically on my own
property in a variety of ways (such as not limited to: putting up sheet rock, installing
electrical sockets, painting a two-story home, landscaping) to help save money because
my rents were historically low compared to the rental market and | could not afford to hire
handymen at times. | am self-taught, and by working alongside contractors for decades |
have assisted them to help save money to do the upgrades and maintenance. | used to do
the clean up after tenants moved out free of charge. Now | am physically impaired due to
age and arthritis in my back due to the hard work | have put into my rentals.

My mistake is | did not charge the amount of rent | could have in order to save money for
future repairs, renovations and ultimately paying for the services of painters, cleaning
companies and handymen to do the work | used to be able to do myself. | learned after the
second time | remodeled the kitchens and bathroom -after 20 years from the first remodel,

the cost of doing so was shockingly high. | learned not to shortchange myself and when
someone moves out, | now study the market and get close to market value. However, | still

undercharge rents for the 2 units | still rent. It is now impossible to catch up due to this law.

805 of 891


--- page 806 ---
Tenants do not have an investment; they only create damages after they leave - even with
the best of tenants, most do not Know who to take care of a house despite putting in
recommendations in an addendum with their contracts. Under AB-1482 rent controlis
limited to 5% plus CPI - this is too low and does not cover the cost of inflation, nor does this
take into consideration the over inflated rates plumbers, contractors, painters and pest
control companies throughout California. Reputable companies are very hard to find, too
few of them around and there are no restrictions on what they charge. This creates a
financial strain on landlords who face increasing costs for maintenance, property taxes,
utilities, mortgages rates, rental insurance, travel and office expenses (as in any other
business). It is important to strike a balance that allows landlords to adjust rent in line
with inflation and market trends while ensuring tenants are not subjected to

exorbitant increases.

Issues at hand with the current laws allow bad tenants to play the system. The tenant has
the upper hand.

Recently, | gave legal notice to one set of tenants that their month to month will not be
renewed, they stopped paying rent. A tenant only needs to give one month’s notice where |
must give the equivalent of two months’ notice (60 days) plus mailing time added to this.
During this period, the tenant skipped out on paying two months’ rent. | was legally
required to continue to pay their utility bill. The house was trashed inside and outside when
they vacated. The house was newly painted before they moved in, recently remodeled
kitchen, professionally scrubbed tiled floors, newly relandscaped yard. They left it a dirty
mess, with so much unusable junk inside the garage and backyard, along with fecal matter
from their dogs which was fermented. They left the garage door open for feral cats to go
inside while residing in my rental. The smell of cat urine was very strong. | gave them the
legal notices for pre-inspection, no reply. No one showed up for the post inspection. No
reply to the notices of the abandonment of personal property they left behind. By law | have
to keep their abandoned property for 18 days plus more for mailing time. This reduced my
rental income by 3 months lost rent. The new law only allows one month’s rent for security
deposit. The cost to clean the house ($2,200.00), repair damages, and dispose of things
they left behind was in the thousands. Their security deposit did not cover these costs, let
alone the previously unpaid rent. | still must pay for acid washing the garage floor and
removal of wooden frame due to the smell of the cat urine —- odor neutralizer products failed
to remove the bad odor. To date the unit has not been rented for 4 months awaiting this
problem to be solved before | can show it to prospective tenants. Getting bids takes time.
Organizing repair schedules also takes time. This adds up to a tremendous amount of lost
rental income when the rental unit stays vacant due to tenant damage.

Page @

806 of 891


--- page 807 ---
If these tenants described above were “professional tenants”, and not just bad tenants,
they would have been “hold overs”. Playing the system since it takes now 4 to 6 months to
go through the eviction process — if so, | would still be paying for utilities or face tens of
thousands of dollars in fines, and maybe jail time if | shut off services. They would have
essentially had up to 8 months’ deferred rent, while | am still required to pay for
maintenance, property taxes, utilities, insurance and mortgage. | would still be faced with
the fees for cleanup and repair of damages once they vacate. Winning a court case takes
attorney fees, tenants get free legal advice. Although | would have a good chance to win in
court, the tenant will never pay the back rent owed.

This same tenant did the same thing to another landlord as she did to me. When in court,
the tenant’s former landlord won, however the tenant claimed hardship and said she could
not even pay the minimum judgement in a second court date. The tenant was absolved of
her debts to the former landlord — who never received a dime although she previously won
over a $5,000.00 judgement. This tenant lied in court, failed to mention she received money
for about a year which paid almost all of her rent-! knew this because | accepted payments
from the church who paid her rent, but unfortunately the tenant’s former landlord did not
know this during her second court appearance to counteract the tenant’s claim of
hardship.

What makes it difficult to address these issues is the lack of information on what the city’s
council members are proposing.

Questions Regarding Rental Registry:

What is the council’s goal for creating a rental registry?
Where can | get a copy of the data collected to support this idea?
Is there a fee involved in registering? Why is it the landlord’s responsibility to pay it?

| am already paying now to have a business license to operate a rental unit, is this rental
registration redundant?

Why does the city need rental data?
Who has the city consulted with regarding these proposals?

What is the data you want to collect in the rental registry?
aa G2 F-

807 of 891


--- page 808 ---
What are the criteria for what they call “standard Housing”?
Are AIR BNB, Bed and Breakfast, rooms for rent, Hotels, Motels, required to register?

What if a tenant fails to maintain the rental unit at the “standard Housing” criteria? A lot of
bad tenants will not allow a landlord in to do maintenance, nor tell a landlord if there are
needed repairs so that they wont be disturbed, and/or exposed violating their rental lease
agreements.

Is this registration a means to have mandatory rent control a flat rate across the board only
based upon the side number of bedrooms and bathrooms? Is this proposed law taking into
account the condition of the rentals - high-end materials verses cheap materials? Will it
consider that contractors, plumbers and such, will charge different rates for different
landlords for the same repairs?

Consider some landlords, like me, have put decades of rental money back into our rentals.
Not all landlords are treated fairly, and the nicer looking a rentalis, the more we get
charged for basic repairs because of the impression we give to handymen and the like that
we have higher rents and can afford to be taken advantage of — not the case, my rent is
always below market value. | do so to keep good tenants. Arbitrarily collecting data without
a purpose makes not sense. We already are required to register our rentals by getting a
business license _ SSF. Renters can get tax credits for renting for a minimum of one-half
year. Tax agency will already have data on how much a landlord has collected and is
required to declare on their taxes because of this.

What is beneficial is a National Tenant Registry. For obvious reasons for ICE, protecting
against overcrowding by landlord, as well as by tenants who are illegally subleasing to
multiple people - there is an undeclared tax revenue when these tenants are enriching
themselves with someone else’s investments; and these tenants assume no risks: more
damages, quicker wear and tear, liability. What if the tenant or the subtenants are the ones
creating unhealthy living conditions, who is liable the tenant or the landlord? Who gets

fined?

Code enforcements should be between the owner and the city and not subject to another
bureaucratic agency. Is there a fee involved in sending a code enforcement officer? It
seems to me to undermine the relationship between the tenants and the landlord. It is the
tenant’s responsibility to report any issues directly to the landlord, are they now going to
report issues directly to the city? Does the city really need to spend money on another

agency?

(“7 ®

808 of 891


--- page 809 ---
The proposal for a rental registry seems to be focused on:

Te

Policing landlords. Where does the city get the authority to do this? Whoever
oversees this, needs to submit their data summarizing it to the Federal agency —
HUD, and Senators. Policing landlords means they will draft policies against
landlords. If there is no “tenant registry” then this is purely one sided, biased against
landlords.

Entrapment. No wiggle room for landlords. They will be subject to legal challenges,
no free legal help to landlords. Is there a legal requirement for this rental registry?

The government has declared us landlords as having a cash producing asset rather
than just a home and we are expected to pay taxes on revenue, but what about the
tenant who illegally subleases a rental without the consent or knowledge of the
landlord? Are these tenants required to pay a fine? Register despite violating rental
agreements? Penalized for not paying taxes on the income from our rentals? Give
proceeds to landlords if caught subleasing and making a profit? Remember: cities
are businesses that require revenue to stay profitable. But it can not keep penalizing
landlords. The rental business is drying up because of this. We need a tenant
registry to capture lost revenue dollars when tenants sublease, and assist in
preserving our investments by ensuring rules, codes, and requirements are being
followed for the safety and protection for all concerned.

This proposed law is trying to determine my profit margin without considering my
risks and costs of operation. It does not consider the amount of profit redistributed
back into my rental property to make them modern and desirable by today’s
standard, nor the cost for maintenance and repairs. It does not consider what a
contractor will charge me vs another landlord, there is no consistency, and | seem to
get taken advantage of by unfamiliar contractors and businesses. The price to
replace my sewer laterals estimates from 3 different plumbing companies was:
$48,000.00; $58,000.00-$85,000.00 same company but different types of plumbing
methods; and $103,000.00. Realtors told me they paid $12,000.00 and it should not
cost that much.

My rentals stand above those landlords who do nothing to renovate their rentals,

therefore these landlords can afford to charge less rent. This being the case,
perhaps | will be required to change my approach and do nothing — leaving the unit

+ a

809 of 891


--- page 810 ---
for other tenants the way the last tenant left it, since the security deposits will not
even cover default rent nor the cost to bring the unit back to its original condition
after the tenants vacate. Maybe remove all appliances, requiring the tenant to
supply their own, less repairs and no cost for replacement to me. There is never
enough security deposit to cover even re-painting the unit, let alone other damage
to cabinets, countertops, flooring and more. We had a tenant who never told us of
smoke damage. The smoke permeated the entire house — even inside of closets. Our
insurance did not pay, because it was not considered a one-time event. It took
$5,600 to paint the interior of a 3-bedroom 2-bath house, the rent was $2,100.

We need to go back to allowing two months’ rent as security deposit, it should be
increased to three months regardless of whether the rental is under AB 1482 or not.

We need a Tenant Registry not a landlord-oriented registry. ICE might be interested
in this, as well as the state. | have heard of people from other states claiming
residency in CA during covid-19 to get money from the rent relief fund. Not one from
the government flagged them. The government did not require proof, nor did they
need the landlord to participate to write a check to the applicant. The tenant then
cashes the rent relief fund into his/her private account. As a landlord | hear and see
a lot of abuse of funding which is meant to help those in real dire need. Now when
California’s money runs out, they turn to the landlords to supply it and solve their
homeless problem. The problem with the government is that they choose to side
with those who have not put into our system. As a property and income tax payer, |
have yet to see my well-earned money go to my benefit and not someone who did
nothing.

We need to flag tenants who have been problematic, habitual “professional
Tenants’. We need accounting of everyone person who lives in the rental unit. Too
many times, due to the inability to raise the rent to market value due to AB 1482,
tenants will sublease the unit whether the tenant remains in the unit or not. | have
heard of a tenant turning his unit into an AIR BNB. This is a violation in my rental
contracts and as with other landlords will not endorse subleasing. Subleasing poses
risks of liability to the landlord, potential over crowding a unit without the landlord’s
knowledge due to the limitation created by law restricting their ability to inspect
their rental property during a tenant’s residency. Health and safety risks with
overcrowding, possible criminal activity such as drug dealing, prostitution, sex
trafficking, and unreported income by the tenant who is illegally subleasing.

Pige|o

810 of 891


--- page 811 ---
It is imperative we maintain control over our properties and take it out of the hands of
tenants, and their advocates who are not the solution but the problem.

Laws should be a two-way street, benefits to both landlords and tenants. This is not
the case here. The reality is that this bill is clearly prejudicial against the landlords,
and there are too many laws governing our livelihood as it is.

These policies are the continuation of California’s ideology of “social engineering” —
Laws already in place as those being proposed geared towards “redistributing”
income away from the landlord and unjustly placing it in the hands of undeserving
tenants. Tenants have nothing to lose, everything to gain. They assume no risk, no
responsibilities even for their own expenses which should be expected to occur
such as moving costs. As ahomeowner no one paid for our moving expenses when
we had to take a job out of state to continue to make a living. It is life. Tenants should
not get any rewards for moving costs, yet they do. Tenants are a temporary paying
guest/occupant, not permanent resident. Rentals are not solutions to the housing
problem. Lower interest rates, affordable housing for purchase, guidance on how to
establish good credit, and encouraging education for financial stability and
punishing problematic tenants is.

California overrides my contracts and it is impossible to evict a bad tenant based on
“fault” eviction — even now it is being considered that the tenant can go on not
paying rent, it takes 4-6 months to evict them based on non-payment of rent, but
even winning a judgement against the tenant, they can give a check for rent on the
day of eviction. This proposed law will cause tremendous hardship on landlords.
Fewer and fewer landlords are re-renting their properties due to these absurd

proposals.
Summary:

Tenants are in a temporary arraignment and must assume the cost of moving not the
landlord.

Good tenants cause the landlords to self-regulate their rental policies.
There is no need to look at creating new rental regulations since there is no risk of
being a tenant except losing their tenancy due to an unforeseen change in the

{ a9 \\

811 of 891


--- page 812 ---
landlord’s situation. Landlords should be allowed the same opportunity to have the
freedom to change their situation without government interference.

Rental Registry is biased against landlords. Data collected will only be used to harm
the landlord ability to make a living based upon their own standards and not the
government lumping everyone into a “one size fits all” concerning rent control. A
landlord who improves his property should be allowed to charge rent accordingly
based upon renovations not limited to the number of bedrooms/bathrooms, and
location.

Privacy concerns with rental registry for both tenant and landlord.
Lack of data provided by consumer groups who favor tenants and spit on landlords.

These policies as beginning AB 1482 at the start of the tenancy is a forced
arraignment for the landlords. More time is needed to make sure the relationship
between tenants and landlord is agreeable.

Need to encourage a healthy relationship between tenant and landlords.

Increased cost at taxpayers expense associated with these re-dos in the tenant-
landlord laws. Where is the data to support these new policies?

The negative outweighs the positive. Landlords, like me are not going to re-rent our
properties if these laws get passed. Leading to fewer rental houses and duplexes.
Tenants will be forced into high rise apartments.

Lack of proof. Tenants behind these laws lie about their situation. Not enough
landlords are speaking up on their own behalf. Feeling helpless to fight for their
rights as respectable and necessary business owners.

There is no need for a landlord rental registry. Tenants could receive Non-refundable
renters’ credit they can claim this tax credit if they lived in a rental for at least half a
year. This will expose landlords who do not report rental income on their taxes. A
national tenants’ registry is needed for assisting such as with ICE, untapped income
from tenants illegally subleasing, and tenants who are double dipping into assisted
housing funds and discourage squatters.

ge (2

812 of 891


--- page 813 ---
A need to change the language due to political biases attached to the terms:
“landlord” equated with “privileged” “rich” “white”, and “tenant” equated with
“poor” “underprivileged” “minority”.

| prefer the terms below to facility a natural partnership between those who rent out
our homes and those who need temporary dwelling.

“Habitability investor” opposed to landlord.
“Temporary paying inhabitant” opposed to tenant.

| urge the council to consider these points carefully and engage in meaningful dialog
with both tenant and landlord representative to refine the proposed laws. It is in our
collective interest to create a housing environment that is fair, transparent, and

conductive to the well-being of all community members. Please do not follow the
template SF, East Bay and LA counties are doing - it is a failure.

G. T. Laughlin

page 3

813 of 891


--- page 814 ---
lo’ Outlook

Rent Control

From Trask Leonard cree

Date Sat 4/19/2025 2:26 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

No rent control in San Mateo, please.

Wayland Leonard

814 of 891


--- page 815 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Sat 4/19/2025 9:05 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Martin,

Please see below.

From: Trask Leonard {je

Sent: Saturday, April 19, 2025 2:31 PM
To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

Say no to rent Control.

Wayland Leonard

815 of 891


--- page 816 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From is Leung re

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lisa Leung

816 of 891


--- page 817 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From sa Leung {ie

Date Sat 4/19/2025 6:30 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

We own 5 houses in San Mateo County and are responsible owners who take pride in maintaining our properties
and responding immediately to our tenant concems.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Lisa Leun

817 of 891


--- page 818 ---
Gh Outlook

FW: Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:53 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Ines Malardino rr
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 3:53 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

Please, no to rental control in San Mateo.

Ines Malardino
Broker Associate

818 of 891


--- page 819 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — Opposed to Introduction of New Laws

via votervoice.ne

Date Fri 4/18/2025 5:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Please keep in mind that beyond introducing complications for non-corporate owners, these proposed regulations
will have one or both of the following outcomes across our community:

1) Reduction in rental unit quality as less is invested into upkeep and improvements.

2) Inflated rents for incoming tenants to offset new costs, rent limitations, and risk of unexpected payments.

The best policy is to support the sensible development of new housing to increase supply. This solution prevents
unsustainable regulation upon local owners while providing renters with more options. With more units available,
landlords must compete to provide the best quality while keeping rents within reason as demand is lowered. This
environment is tenant-friendly without asking owners to risk the financial viability of their properties when
maintaining, improving, and leasing living spaces.

Thank you for you consideration.

Sincerely,

Kyle McCreight

819 of 891


--- page 820 ---
Oh Outlook

Adopt "One Home San Mateo" eviction policy proposals

From Acheigh vers

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:31 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

April 18, 2025

San Mateo City Councilmembers:

San Mateo County Democracy for America, a chartered Democratic club, commends the San Mateo City
Council’s commitment to finding ways to expand renter protections in San Mateo, in order to provide
stable and secure housing in times that are increasingly insecure.

Because renters are so vulnerable to the traumatic life-changing effects of unjust evictions, we urge you
to adopt the five eviction protection policy proposals from the “One Home San Mateo” coalition* at your
San Mateo City Council meeting on Monday, April 21.

The “One Home San Mateo” proposals:

1. Just cause for evictions from Day One

2. Prohibition of no-fault evictions during the school year
3. Right to return after a substantial remodel

4. Increased relocation assistance

5. Creation of a rental data registry

* “One Home San Mateo” coalition members:

Housing Leadership Council

Peninsula Solidarity Cohort

San Mateo Climate Action Team

The Latino Ministry of the Congregational Church of San Mateo
Peninsula for Everyone

Housing Action Coalition

The League of Women Voters of North & Central San Mateo County
United Way Bay Area

Again, thank you for your leadership on behalf of renters in San Mateo.

820 of 891


--- page 821 ---
Sincerely,

Susie Raye
Chair
San Mateo County Democracy for America

821 of 891


--- page 822 ---
Oh Outlook

FW: Expansion of Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Thu 4/17/2025 4:25 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Bill McQuaid
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2025 4:24 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Expansion of Rent Control

My wife and | own a five unit apartment building in San Mateo.

We are opposed to any expansion of rent control in San Mateo.

We don't need more bureaucracy in the form of a rental registry and other onerous regulations.
.The state’s Tenant Protection Act of 2019 already provides comprehensive rent control and
eviction protections. The more regulations, the more likely "mom and pop" landlords like us, will
"throw in the towel" and sell out to a corporate type entity that can

afford legal counsel to navigate and decipher the more and more

complex nature of owning a small property.

If the desire of the City of San Mateo is to encourage the corporate

ownership of local real estate, more rent control and tenant eviction

protections is certainly a step in the right direction.

Bill and Maureen McQuaid

822 of 891


--- page 823 ---
Oh Outlook

Rent Control Special Study Session 4/21/25

Date Thu 4/17/2025 4:06 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council Members,
| am firmly against expanding AB1482.
Good tenants have adequate protection.

Expanding the protections will only encourage bad tenants and their attorneys to exploit the legal
process further. The courts already favor the tenants and have burdened good landlords with false
habitability claims, groundless retaliatory claims, etc. These types of cases are brought by predatory
law firms that game the system with bad tenants encouraged to play the game. Insurance companies
and landlords are being exploited with false claims due to added rent control and tenant protections.

What we need is more affordable rental housing, market-rate apartment buildings, etc.
Expanding AB1482 will discourage further future rental housing development.

| have been in the real estate business since 1978, | am a landlord in San Mateo, Alameda County, and
San Francisco. | currently deal with San Francisco's Rent Board that added a new rental registry which
adds to the yearly reporting and additional fees that all landlords have to incur.

| am 100 percent against adding any registry, as Landlords are already burdened with filing
requirements, rising insurance rates, rising maintenance costs due to rising labor and material costs.
These added requirements make any future and current landlord think twice about having a future as
a rental provider.

Rising operating expenses make rent control properties very hard to properly maintain and have
forced numerous mom-and-pop operators to sell out.

Property turnovers have led to larger rent increases due to higher maintenance costs and renovations
by investment groups with deep pockets.

| have numerous long-term tenants in San Mateo that have not seen any rent increases from me for
over 5 years.

| just recently had to send out a modest rent increase to one of my tenants due to the possibility of
added rent control concerns and the rent is still 15 to 20 percent below market.

No one understands how rent control hurts both landlords and tenants alike.

823 of 891


--- page 824 ---
As for more tenant protections, | can only state this: | have been a real estate broker since 1981 and
back in the early '80s a simple tenant lease with disclosures totaled no more than four pages. The
current CAR residential lease form with state-mandated disclosures now totals approximately 23

pages.

In closing, | believe AB1482 in its current form provides more than adequate tenant protections.

Sincerely,

George Mitropoulos

George Mitropoulos
Metro Properties

824 of 891


--- page 825 ---
Gh Outlook

RE: New Business Item #10 - Tenant Protection

Date Mon 4/21/2025 9:54 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

4/21/25

TO: City of San Mateo, Council and Staff
FROM: Suzanne Moore

RE: New Business Item #10 - Tenant Protection

Honorable Council members and staff.
Thank you for prioritizing tenant protection as part of your Housing Element.

My name is Suzanne Moore, sitting Board Member for Healthcare for the Homeless and Farmworkers
Program, and | speak for myself this evening.

Eviction remains one of the greatest barriers to finding another home; therefore, preventing evictions
is an obvious way to best assist tenants and interrupt the homelessness pipeline.

Here are how some communities chose to decrease evictions: they adopted ordinances

- that extend just cause for eviction from day one,

- ban junk fees in leases and halt THAT path to eviction for failure to pay,

- require landlords to provide access to tenant legal aid as they serve an eviction. Tenants who have an
attorney present in eviction court are more likely to stay housed.

I'm grateful to landlords who provide safe, affordable housing for our neighbors. Our tenants are an
important part of our community. We, as a community, can adopt ordinances that guide and protect.

Thank you.

Suzanne Moore

825 of 891


--- page 826 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

You are trying to take away my rights as a small rental provider. My husband and | have worked hard and
sacrificed to purchase, maintain, and provide housing at lower than average rents. Our costs are rising with
insurance increases, property tax increases, bond, measures, utilities, etc. How dare you try to pass regulations
protecting other individual 's needs to be more important than mine. Your new regulations will make it impossible
for me to keep my rental properties and keep providing fair market rents. Who are you people to be making
decisions which directly negatively effects my rights and financial future? | truly believe what you are proposing is

illegal.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city's renters.

Sincerely,

Laura nagle

826 of 891


--- page 827 ---
oh Outlook

FW: On Further Tenant Protections

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org >
Date Mon 4/21/2025 2:11 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Martin - please see below. It went to councilmembers, but not the City Council email...
Rachel

-----Original Message---—

From: Doris Nishimoto

Sent: Monday, April 21, 2025 12:52 PM

To: Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-
Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Prasanna Rasiah <prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rachel Horst
<rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>; Noel Nish

Subject: On Further Tenant Protections

Policy induced methods to hold landlords hostage to the situational distress of a breach of contract between
landlord and tenant is not the solution.

The "off ramp" to this problem is recognizing and addressing the deficiencies between eamed income and the
need to deregulate an environment that has ADDED costs to provider housing. Please, no more added costs of
rent registries and creation of a new department to monitor the housing market in the private market. Instead, this
money could be used as rental subsidies and would have a direct and meaningful impact for tenants.

The current rental security deposit that is allowed is insufficient to cover "wear and tear" tumaround costs for an
apartment and also for the proposed "move out" (up to 3 months rent) you are considering for tenants due to AB12
bill:

In California, Assembly Bill 12 (AB 12), which went into effect on July 1, 2024, limits security deposits for most
landlords to one month's rent, regardless of whether the unit is fumished or unfurnished. This law

amends California Civil Code Section 1950.5. There are exceptions, including for smaller landlords (those who own
two or fewer properties with a total of four or fewer rental units) who may still be able to collect up to two months'
rent.

Thank you for reading.

Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.

827 of 891



--- page 828 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Ann Odonoghve iii

Date Sun 4/20/2025 8:30 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

The attack on landlords continues! Why is it the city’s business what | am collecting in rent, this is my privately
owned property that worked hard to purchase. I’m not asking the Board of San Mateo for their private finances. It
seems like the State of Califomia wants to continue to punish people that have worked hard their whole lives to
purchase property to get ahead. I’m not sure why it is our responsibility to take care of everyone else in the state,
shouldn't that be States responsibility not the private sector!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Ann Odonoghue

828 of 891


--- page 829 ---
th Outlook
Housing Element Implementation — Anti-Displacement and Tenant Protection Policies

From Seema Pot! {i

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:45 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello City Councilmembers!

| currently serve as the Chair of the San Mateo Planning Commission but am writing on my own behalf as a resident of San Mateo.

In its certified Housing Element San Mateo commits to a Fair Housing Action Plan in order to Affirmatively Further Fair Housing as required by state law. The
actions in this plan include:

Policy H5.2.4: In conjunction with San Mateo County, develop a housing
mobility program that provides support to tenants seeking to move to high opportunity areas in the region. (No timeline given)

Action 4.1: Establish tenant protections in local ordinance to extend
measures of AB1482 related to relocation, documentation, and right to return policy in eviction cases.

Extend AB1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for
No Fault evictions for those with tenure less than one year. (Target timeline 2024)

Make recommendations to the City Council for establishing tenant

protection policies that include the requirement of documentation from landlords who use the substantial remodel exemption to evict tenants and a Rig
2026)

Amend the Code to strengthen enforcement penalty structure to aid
in protecting tenants from unsafe or substandard units. (Target timeline of 2024)

Action 4.2: Partner with Project Sentinel to perform fair housing
training for landlords and tenants. (Timeline Annual by July 1)

The
city also commits to Policy H 3.6, Monitor Rents, Evictions and Tenant Displacement Citywide, including:

a.

Research options and best practices for

a rental registry list, including determining necessary financial and human resources needed to establish such a program. Make recommendations to
City Council. (Target timeline 2024)

Collaborate with regional partners, such
as 21 Elements or ABAG, to develop ways to monitor rental rates, evictions and displacement citywide and countywide to track trends and use the
information to guide policy priorities. (Target timeline 2024-2031)

| encourage the City Council to follow through with these commitments to ensure that our Housing Element remains in compliance with the state, so that we
do not risk decertification and exposure to penalties like the Builder's Remedy.

Thank you for your consideration.

829 of 891


--- page 830 ---
Regards,
Seema Patel

830 of 891


--- page 831 ---
lo Outlook

FW: Rent Control

From Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Date Thu 4/17/2025 3:52 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Please see below.

From: Nino rer on
Sent: Thursday, April'17, 2025 3:39 PM

To: Rachel Horst <rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Rent Control

Hello

Please resist any rent control. It is hard enough to rent your property to anyone. Between
upkeep, utilities, taxes and repairs during and after a tenant leaves is hard enough. Renting
should be temporary for everyone. Making it harder to own will only push landlords to charge
as much as they possibly can.

Many landlords including myself pay the first 2-3 months rent to the county for property taxes.
The cost to replace just carpeting can eat up 6 months rent alone. The cost to repaint a unit
can cost another 6 month rent. If it was easy, everybody would do it.

Nino Perrone

831 of 891


--- page 832 ---
Oh Outlook

Strong Protections of Renters Urgently Needed

From Ciara Reddy

Date Mon 4/21/2025 4:00 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Esteemed Council Members:

As the Council considers ways in which to expand protections under AB 1482, I encourage you to make
changes that will meaningfully enhance housing security for renters in the City of San Mateo.

According to multiple sources, renters in San Mateo comprise nearly half the population, and with the
exceedingly high rents in the City, many of them lead highly tenuous lives. One in four pays more than
50 percent of their income on rent, leaving very little for other essential needs that include food, health
care, transportation, utilities and child care. Furthermore, there is strong reason to expect that in the
coming four years, they will be subjected to takeaways that make life increasingly difficult for them.
Already there is talk of assaults upon Medicaid, housing vouchers and SNAP benefits, all of which are
vital supports for people of lower income. In an environment such as this, where the needs of our more
vulnerable community members are so readily compromised, there is ever more reason to keep renters
from being subjected to the cost and trauma they face when evicted from their homes.

Stable and secure housing is fundamental to the ability of families to thrive. As a houser, who believes
housing is a regional issue in which we all need to be mindful and proactive, please support the
proposals set forth by the coalition of organizations called “Our Home San Mateo” to help increase
housing security for renters in a regrettably insecure time.

Diana Reddy

Former Vice Mayor, Redwood City

Long-time Affordable Housing Advocate

832 of 891


--- page 833 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Rober Schwarze

via votervoice.net
Date Mon 4/21/2025 8:50 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Robert Schwartzer

833 of 891


--- page 834 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Anti-Property Owner Punishments

From Pau! Toppy

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Please do not enact more restructuring on owners and small landlords.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Paul Tappan

834 of 891


--- page 835 ---
ch Outlook
Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Khatchig Taziar [ie

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

As property owner in Los Angeles County that is under Rent Control | can tell when | drive down a street which
building fall under rent control and which don't due to their condition. If you want to have a delpatated city with even
more scarcity for rentals go ahead and pass more restrictive laws. Laws should protect owners as well as renters.
San Mateo was incorporated 1894 and for the duration of that period has done well enough without those intrusive
laws you are suggesting.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Khatchig Tazian

835 of 891


--- page 836 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:40 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

McCall Thompson

836 of 891


--- page 837 ---
Gh Outlook

Oppose new rent control regulations and bureaucracy.

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:02 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

We oppose new costly local regulations that exceed state law. CAA emphasizes that the City of San
Mateo "has not provided sufficient data to justify these stricter proposals and continues to overlook the
real issue — a shortage of affordable housing."

We need new housing. These choking overreaching regulations do not encourage owners to rent their
units, but rather cause them to withdraw, reducing housing stock.

The documentation, regulations and nonsense in this proposal is an example of why almost 40% of

Californians voted against Harris—. Keep San Mateo the common sense community it’s known for. (We
own no rental property) Tom and Carol Gillett,

837 of 891


--- page 838 ---
Oh Outlook

NO Change to Rental Laws

Date Sun 4/20/2025 9:48 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash
<Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org >;
nfernadez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernadez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor and Council members

This is in response to the attack on property owners of our great city. This attack is relentless
and targeted at the weak and people that can not defend themselves such as many mom and
pop rental owners.

The organizers against landlords, including the city staff, goal seems to be to take away
property rights from the hardworking grandma/grandpas who have worked their whole lives on
their investment. These predators go city to city attacking landlords because they don't have
the guts to go after the big corporations and foreign owed entities that own and run enormous
high rise apartments. They have big $ and they know they can't go after them so the go after
the little guy.

All these attacks only make this worse for tenants and landlords. How?

* Because of the hostile environment of being a landlord, we know many who have already sold
or plan to sell, and no longer wish to have the liability associated with tenants. Some have even
left their properties vacant.

* The excessive rent control measures have left landlords and tenants in a state of animosity
instead of working together.

* Landlords now have no choice but to increase rents each time to the highest limits. In the
past, landlords would not do that as they had a friendly relationship with their tenants

“If your staff did the proper research and reported accurately, they would discover that as you
increase regulations/rent control/tenant protections measures, more property owners choose to
take their properties off the rental market leaving us with fewer inventory, thus increasing rents.

Based on what I've seen and heard at various council meetings, your staff spends a lot of time
interviewing tenants with little to no effort of identifying issues that affect landlords. They seem
to forget that landlords provide an essential service to our community.

I've attended several meeting at several cities and it seems to be the same people giving the
same sob stories, providing no receipts to back up what they're saying.

You need to find solutions other than attacking landlords. You want to put limits on what
landlords can do, what they can charge, how long they can rent, etc but there are no limits on
the costs of water, PGE, insurance, maintenance etc. This can not be sustained which is why
inventory will continue to decrease.

One common theme | also hear is "I can't afford to live here now that I'm retired". That is an
issue that we ALL have to contend with whether you're a renter or landlord. No one is
guaranteed they can live in their home for life. We all will have to deal with decreased income
when we retire and it is NOT the responsibility of a landlord to subsidize housing.

838 of 891


--- page 839 ---
Another theme is "I'm a teacher, | work for the city etc” and | should be able to live closer to
where | work. Their chosen job dictates their salary. If they can not afford to live close, they
must commute like so many of us do. Landlord should not subsidize. I'd love to live in the
beautiful hills of Portola Valley. | can’t afford it. No subsidy here.

Everything the city and state has done so far has only increased rents and driving landlords and
tenants apart. No where in the country has putting in rent control or highly regulating landlords
ever worked as proven time and time again.

SOLUTIONS

*You must create a more friendly environment to become a landlord and encourage rather than
restrict.

* Build more housing is not a solution as rent control is not their problem because they provide
minimal low income housing. As you know, new buildings are exempt from rent control which is
why mom and pops are being attacked.

“Provide free legal assistance to landlords. Tenants get it all the time which is why costs are so
high for landlords and which is why they are so frivolous in attacking.

*Restrict tenants ability to sue by requiring mediation which is paid for by the city. We are
already spending so much §$ on this issue. Spend it in a way that helps with actual problems
not theoretical ones.

* NGOs etc have become paid organizers to go after landlords because that's how they make
their $$ - "helping with housing". They are nothing but the problem because in the end, they
have caused these issues. NGOs have got to go.

It's unfair that there are different regulations for the mom and pop vs new building. Why?
Because they are big and powerful and provide the cities with lots of revenue when they build.

NO MORE CHANGES TO RENTAL LAWS. NO MORE ATTACKS ON LANDLORDS.

Thank you
Herman van Blommestein

839 of 891


--- page 840 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Coroine Washo ii

Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am a single woman who owns a Duplex in San Mateo. It is the first property | have ever owned and these new
laws would be devastating for my small investment.

Please DO NOT VOTE YES ON THIS!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Caroline Walshe

840 of 891


--- page 841 ---
Gh Outlook

Opposing Agenda Item #10

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:17 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Council
Member Lisa Diaz Nash <Idnash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki

<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of the City Council,

As small landlord providing affordable rental housing in San Mateo, | am opposed to more housing
regulations. This will add more confusion and costs for the small housing providers in San Mateo. We do not
need a new set of laws in San Mateo beyond what is already regulated at the State level. San Mateo has a
shortage of affordable housing, please do not add more regulations to make this more costly for the small
housing providers?

Most property owners are reasonable about rental prices, try to work things out with tenants, and try to avoid
evictions. There are so many laws today which favor tenants at the State level, it would be beneficial to get a
better understanding of the current laws before adding more.

The primary cause of renter displacement is non-payment of rent according to the Staff Report. This is not
the fault of the housing provider. The focus should be toward programs and funding to help renters who face

these financial emergencies. Samaritan House helps with rental assistance in emergencies for renters.

More than 60% voted rejected expanded rent control with Proposition 33. These new local regulations will
make it more difficult for smaller landlords to offer affordable housing in San Mateo.

| oppose these new laws:

Changing tenancy to Day 1 and increasing relocation fees up to 3 months rent. This is covered in AB 1482.
Requirements to give the vacating renter a right to return to the unit after substantial remodel. A price control
measure may be included. This is not an incentive to improve a unit.

A rent registry does nothing for tenants, and impacts the privacy of landlords and tenants.

Please focus on programs and funding that provide rental assistance to the renter in emergency situations like
Samaritan House.

Thank you.

841 of 891


--- page 842 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Passing more laws only protects a minor class of residents who are in place. While that is good it just passes on
the rent to income new residents and make housing unaffordable going forward. The best approach to housing is
relaxing zoning and planning barriers and permit high density and height limits where possible to facilitate more
building of housing units. This is the only true effective approach to affordable housing for the long term. Don't
copy the failed policies of San Francisco and other rent controlled cities!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Wei

842 of 891


--- page 843 ---
yx! 21, 2028
"PRAPR 21 Lish@ar

| nds swan IE cud own | pte

‘willie amy <4

843 of 891


--- page 844 ---
Ape | 2 , 22x
Pepe are UW eee

i dlade

Us rope ote India» we
2) Ravel’ 1m " ey “a Sip

Y Let AeA Weginads



--- page 845 ---
> =
4 | 2 apa:
ni 7 eh gale

er ven aah soe yom aud pe P
wd whe volt oggestis : Poot A, mot”

a Wek i ts, oe * sale a pr

Towdd ime Eo WV AS xa seem. (ale e tre



--- page 846 ---
) Seemann

~ m “ “> = ah

a Se a. daalant : * ty 2
5 4 7 ) wi § ah = at v

ee peerereen ann es renee See ce coat for Se aad
of! ao + Se ats ed / we mh, a
. Fi Ne iad 7 } NS SS ; By
panacea ocd a ee eel AS a ee ee "Dad ne
x ‘ ~ osopeagez a 2 i a J ; = _
romcareiree | \ an cae ie _ ae Se - ont .

ed \ f «ft .
: : “ 3 2 be *
bis, ‘ y eis . 4 .
FJ ,, ~~ . \ , : : ‘
. , # = — a
rower a rennlt aaa) ee) somenesoneeinei : : ‘> ;
RE ee od ~ Corer a << ed
‘wt 5 q “ = "2
a a aeiatia atl ee Une oy Si
= — =) ; 2» N a) a?
he nar eeilcomennst nana a \ ont \ a3 Seed ‘.,
Yah 3 ie * ow ‘ > € SS cas, Ss re nae : 3 ; —)
“eed 7 ue | Lon po, : 3
Tel E _

doTY oe ~ ’
SS Pe

at
‘ Dn eeeuaiens eee ee S
‘s all — AiR , a
ax — a) —_ y . = Pos x. tl B { =
i { hi 2 as) as = Sent, “ { ‘ 7 . wae roan ea cs —

846 of 891


--- page 847 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From S2s2i Zh27< re

Date Fri 4/18/2025 4:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Hi, My name is Sasai, a local resident and a small landlady in San Mateo. | have been suffering with multiple non-
payment tenants for many years. | strongly oppose the new law that will destroy small landlords like me who
depend on the rental income to pay for family medical bills.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

asai Zhan

847 of 891


--- page 848 ---
Oh Outlook

Strong Protections of Renters Urgently Needed

From Ciara Reddy

Date Mon 4/21/2025 4:00 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Esteemed Council Members:

As the Council considers ways in which to expand protections under AB 1482, I encourage you to make
changes that will meaningfully enhance housing security for renters in the City of San Mateo.

According to multiple sources, renters in San Mateo comprise nearly half the population, and with the
exceedingly high rents in the City, many of them lead highly tenuous lives. One in four pays more than
50 percent of their income on rent, leaving very little for other essential needs that include food, health
care, transportation, utilities and child care. Furthermore, there is strong reason to expect that in the
coming four years, they will be subjected to takeaways that make life increasingly difficult for them.
Already there is talk of assaults upon Medicaid, housing vouchers and SNAP benefits, all of which are
vital supports for people of lower income. In an environment such as this, where the needs of our more
vulnerable community members are so readily compromised, there is ever more reason to keep renters
from being subjected to the cost and trauma they face when evicted from their homes.

Stable and secure housing is fundamental to the ability of families to thrive. As a houser, who believes
housing is a regional issue in which we all need to be mindful and proactive, please support the
proposals set forth by the coalition of organizations called “Our Home San Mateo” to help increase
housing security for renters in a regrettably insecure time.

Diana Reddy

Former Vice Mayor, Redwood City

Long-time Affordable Housing Advocate

848 of 891


--- page 849 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Rober Schwarze

via votervoice.net
Date Mon 4/21/2025 8:50 AM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Robert Schwartzer

849 of 891


--- page 850 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Anti-Property Owner Punishments

From Pau! Toppy

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:50 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,
Please do not enact more restructuring on owners and small landlords.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Paul Tappan

850 of 891


--- page 851 ---
ch Outlook
Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Khatchig Taziar [ie

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

As property owner in Los Angeles County that is under Rent Control | can tell when | drive down a street which
building fall under rent control and which don't due to their condition. If you want to have a delpatated city with even
more scarcity for rentals go ahead and pass more restrictive laws. Laws should protect owners as well as renters.
San Mateo was incorporated 1894 and for the duration of that period has done well enough without those intrusive
laws you are suggesting.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Khatchig Tazian

851 of 891


--- page 852 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

Date Fri 4/18/2025 2:40 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

McCall Thompson

852 of 891


--- page 853 ---
Gh Outlook

Oppose new rent control regulations and bureaucracy.

Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:02 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

We oppose new costly local regulations that exceed state law. CAA emphasizes that the City of San
Mateo "has not provided sufficient data to justify these stricter proposals and continues to overlook the
real issue — a shortage of affordable housing."

We need new housing. These choking overreaching regulations do not encourage owners to rent their
units, but rather cause them to withdraw, reducing housing stock.

The documentation, regulations and nonsense in this proposal is an example of why almost 40% of

Californians voted against Harris—. Keep San Mateo the common sense community it’s known for. (We
own no rental property) Tom and Carol Gillett,

853 of 891


--- page 854 ---
Oh Outlook

NO Change to Rental Laws

Date Sun 4/20/2025 9:48 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash
<Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org >;
nfernadez@cityofsanmateo.org <nfernadez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor and Council members

This is in response to the attack on property owners of our great city. This attack is relentless
and targeted at the weak and people that can not defend themselves such as many mom and
pop rental owners.

The organizers against landlords, including the city staff, goal seems to be to take away
property rights from the hardworking grandma/grandpas who have worked their whole lives on
their investment. These predators go city to city attacking landlords because they don't have
the guts to go after the big corporations and foreign owed entities that own and run enormous
high rise apartments. They have big $ and they know they can't go after them so the go after
the little guy.

All these attacks only make this worse for tenants and landlords. How?

* Because of the hostile environment of being a landlord, we know many who have already sold
or plan to sell, and no longer wish to have the liability associated with tenants. Some have even
left their properties vacant.

* The excessive rent control measures have left landlords and tenants in a state of animosity
instead of working together.

* Landlords now have no choice but to increase rents each time to the highest limits. In the
past, landlords would not do that as they had a friendly relationship with their tenants

“If your staff did the proper research and reported accurately, they would discover that as you
increase regulations/rent control/tenant protections measures, more property owners choose to
take their properties off the rental market leaving us with fewer inventory, thus increasing rents.

Based on what I've seen and heard at various council meetings, your staff spends a lot of time
interviewing tenants with little to no effort of identifying issues that affect landlords. They seem
to forget that landlords provide an essential service to our community.

I've attended several meeting at several cities and it seems to be the same people giving the
same sob stories, providing no receipts to back up what they're saying.

You need to find solutions other than attacking landlords. You want to put limits on what
landlords can do, what they can charge, how long they can rent, etc but there are no limits on
the costs of water, PGE, insurance, maintenance etc. This can not be sustained which is why
inventory will continue to decrease.

One common theme | also hear is "I can't afford to live here now that I'm retired". That is an
issue that we ALL have to contend with whether you're a renter or landlord. No one is
guaranteed they can live in their home for life. We all will have to deal with decreased income
when we retire and it is NOT the responsibility of a landlord to subsidize housing.

854 of 891


--- page 855 ---
Another theme is "I'm a teacher, | work for the city etc” and | should be able to live closer to
where | work. Their chosen job dictates their salary. If they can not afford to live close, they
must commute like so many of us do. Landlord should not subsidize. I'd love to live in the
beautiful hills of Portola Valley. | can’t afford it. No subsidy here.

Everything the city and state has done so far has only increased rents and driving landlords and
tenants apart. No where in the country has putting in rent control or highly regulating landlords
ever worked as proven time and time again.

SOLUTIONS

*You must create a more friendly environment to become a landlord and encourage rather than
restrict.

* Build more housing is not a solution as rent control is not their problem because they provide
minimal low income housing. As you know, new buildings are exempt from rent control which is
why mom and pops are being attacked.

“Provide free legal assistance to landlords. Tenants get it all the time which is why costs are so
high for landlords and which is why they are so frivolous in attacking.

*Restrict tenants ability to sue by requiring mediation which is paid for by the city. We are
already spending so much §$ on this issue. Spend it in a way that helps with actual problems
not theoretical ones.

* NGOs etc have become paid organizers to go after landlords because that's how they make
their $$ - "helping with housing". They are nothing but the problem because in the end, they
have caused these issues. NGOs have got to go.

It's unfair that there are different regulations for the mom and pop vs new building. Why?
Because they are big and powerful and provide the cities with lots of revenue when they build.

NO MORE CHANGES TO RENTAL LAWS. NO MORE ATTACKS ON LANDLORDS.

Thank you
Herman van Blommestein

855 of 891


--- page 856 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From Coroine Washo ii

Date Fri 4/18/2025 1:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

| am a single woman who owns a Duplex in San Mateo. It is the first property | have ever owned and these new
laws would be devastating for my small investment.

Please DO NOT VOTE YES ON THIS!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Caroline Walshe

856 of 891


--- page 857 ---
Gh Outlook

Opposing Agenda Item #10

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:17 PM

To Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Council
Member Lisa Diaz Nash <Idnash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki

<dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of the City Council,

As small landlord providing affordable rental housing in San Mateo, | am opposed to more housing
regulations. This will add more confusion and costs for the small housing providers in San Mateo. We do not
need a new set of laws in San Mateo beyond what is already regulated at the State level. San Mateo has a
shortage of affordable housing, please do not add more regulations to make this more costly for the small
housing providers?

Most property owners are reasonable about rental prices, try to work things out with tenants, and try to avoid
evictions. There are so many laws today which favor tenants at the State level, it would be beneficial to get a
better understanding of the current laws before adding more.

The primary cause of renter displacement is non-payment of rent according to the Staff Report. This is not
the fault of the housing provider. The focus should be toward programs and funding to help renters who face

these financial emergencies. Samaritan House helps with rental assistance in emergencies for renters.

More than 60% voted rejected expanded rent control with Proposition 33. These new local regulations will
make it more difficult for smaller landlords to offer affordable housing in San Mateo.

| oppose these new laws:

Changing tenancy to Day 1 and increasing relocation fees up to 3 months rent. This is covered in AB 1482.
Requirements to give the vacating renter a right to return to the unit after substantial remodel. A price control
measure may be included. This is not an incentive to improve a unit.

A rent registry does nothing for tenants, and impacts the privacy of landlords and tenants.

Please focus on programs and funding that provide rental assistance to the renter in emergency situations like
Samaritan House.

Thank you.

857 of 891


--- page 858 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

via votervoice.net
Date Fri 4/18/2025 3:10 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Passing more laws only protects a minor class of residents who are in place. While that is good it just passes on
the rent to income new residents and make housing unaffordable going forward. The best approach to housing is
relaxing zoning and planning barriers and permit high density and height limits where possible to facilitate more
building of housing units. This is the only true effective approach to affordable housing for the long term. Don't
copy the failed policies of San Francisco and other rent controlled cities!

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staffs report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Wei

858 of 891


--- page 859 ---
yx! 21, 2028
"PRAPR 21 Lish@ar

| nds swan IE cud own | pte

‘willie amy <4

859 of 891


--- page 860 ---
Ape | 2 , 22x
Pepe are UW eee

i dlade

Us rope ote India» we
2) Ravel’ 1m " ey “a Sip

Y Let AeA Weginads



--- page 861 ---
> =
4 | 2 apa:
ni 7 eh gale

er ven aah soe yom aud pe P
wd whe volt oggestis : Poot A, mot”

a Wek i ts, oe * sale a pr

Towdd ime Eo WV AS xa seem. (ale e tre



--- page 862 ---
) Seemann

~ m “ “> = ah

a Se a. daalant : * ty 2
5 4 7 ) wi § ah = at v

ee peerereen ann es renee See ce coat for Se aad
of! ao + Se ats ed / we mh, a
. Fi Ne iad 7 } NS SS ; By
panacea ocd a ee eel AS a ee ee "Dad ne
x ‘ ~ osopeagez a 2 i a J ; = _
romcareiree | \ an cae ie _ ae Se - ont .

ed \ f «ft .
: : “ 3 2 be *
bis, ‘ y eis . 4 .
FJ ,, ~~ . \ , : : ‘
. , # = — a
rower a rennlt aaa) ee) somenesoneeinei : : ‘> ;
RE ee od ~ Corer a << ed
‘wt 5 q “ = "2
a a aeiatia atl ee Une oy Si
= — =) ; 2» N a) a?
he nar eeilcomennst nana a \ ont \ a3 Seed ‘.,
Yah 3 ie * ow ‘ > € SS cas, Ss re nae : 3 ; —)
“eed 7 ue | Lon po, : 3
Tel E _

doTY oe ~ ’
SS Pe

at
‘ Dn eeeuaiens eee ee S
‘s all — AiR , a
ax — a) —_ y . = Pos x. tl B { =
i { hi 2 as) as = Sent, “ { ‘ 7 . wae roan ea cs —

862 of 891


--- page 863 ---
Gh Outlook

Item #10 — No New Laws!

From S2s2i Zh27< re

Date Fri 4/18/2025 4:00 PM
To Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Clerk McTaggart,

Hi, My name is Sasai, a local resident and a small landlady in San Mateo. | have been suffering with multiple non-
payment tenants for many years. | strongly oppose the new law that will destroy small landlords like me who
depend on the rental income to pay for family medical bills.

| am disappointed that city staff is fast-tracking a series of new laws to regulate privately owned rental housing in
the city.

| provide a much-needed resource in your city — rental housing. Yet, my voice is secondary to the voices of the
activists, amplified by city staff, who are demanding new laws.

City staff's report highlights that the No. 1 cause of renter displacement is nonpayment of rent. Your focus should
be directed toward programs and public funding that would help renters who face economic emergencies — not
the new regulations staff is promoting.

Please recognize that housing providers experience economic challenges as well. It is disheartening that staff's
report does not acknowledge the hardships housing providers also endure. Whether they are financial, regulatory
or legal hardships, we too need assistance from the city and do not need new punitive laws imposed on us.

We went through hardships during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not once did the city ask if we needed help.

| ask that you direct city staff to be fair and take a neutral approach. Do not proceed with new regulations until you
assess what problem you are trying to solve and evaluate what existing laws can be used to address those
concerns without adopting new laws that will continue to make it harder and costlier for us to provide rental housing
to the city’s renters.

Sincerely,

asai Zhan

863 of 891


--- page 864 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9853
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 21, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Priority List – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the City Council Priority List for fiscal year 2025-26.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the Adopted City Council 
Priority List for each fiscal year. The City Council Blue Sky workshop held on February 22, 2025 was the first step in this 
annual goal setting process. At that meeting, City Council received a status update on its 2024/2025 Fiscal Year Priority 
List, which contained 37 priorities within three timeframe categories. The categories represent expected completion 
within one fiscal year, 2-5 fiscal years, or 5 or more years. The List also includes a summary level work plan and estimated 
resource intensity for each priority. At the meeting staff made recommendations to remove, retain, or recategorize 
priorities based on their progress to date and work remaining. Staff was directed to:
•
Remove completed items 
•
Make minor revisions to items that needed adjusting, such as pushing out the date of the EV fleet item from 2030 
to 2035 for a more realistic completion schedule
•
Combine a few related items such as those related to stormwater management and the lagoon; and,
•
Recategorize some items to reflect a more accurate completion schedule, such as completion of the new 
Wastewater Treatment Plant and completion of the Central Park Improvements.
In addition, the Council also heard a report on staff’s existing work plan items that are unrelated to formalized Council 
priorities but are a part of each department’s daily work. Further, each Councilmember presented three (3) proposed new 
priorities to be integrated into the list of Adopted City Council priorities for the new fiscal year and deliberated on whether 
they should be retained. 
The April 21, 2025 meeting marks the second step in the process when the Council will be reviewing and providing final 
direction on the new draft 2025/2026 Fiscal Year Priority List. To assist in this conversation, Attachment 1 provides the full 
list of the original 37 Council priorities with a column on the far right noting where staff made noteworthy revisions based 
on status updates provided throughout the year or by Council at the Blue Sky meeting. Some minor changes have also 
been made since the Blue Sky meeting—for instance, an economic consultant was onboarded to assist with peer reviewing 
of mixed-use projects enabling the removal of former Priority #4. Also, the new proposed priorities that gained 
concurrence by at least three (3) Councilmembers are also integrated into this list and placed within the timeframe 
category where staff thought they were best suited. The new priorities are noted by the word “Added” in the far-right 
column and the new grand total for all priorities is 41. It is important to note that some of the proposed priorities were 
already accounted for in other work plan items and while they did not make it as stand-alone items, they are still 
864 of 891

--- page 865 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
accounted for in the Council priorities. Some examples include:
•
Exploring how small/medium apartment complexes can increase in units is part of Housing Element 
implementation work 
•
Fire House 27 improvements is part of the City’s facilities assessment work
•
Exploring lagoon pump station options is part of the Stormwater Master Plan and is captured in former Priorities 
#5 and 31 (now #42). 
•
With the Business Improvement District Priority, it was more detailed than a similar existing priority so it 
superseded the older priority.
The resource intensities included in the table remained largely unchanged for both existing and proposed priorities, as the 
projects are generally similar to how they were presented in February. For the existing priorities, the main revisions are 
related to timing/schedule and remaining work for the longer-term priorities which remain fairly resource intensive. As 
would be expected, the shorter-term priorities are less resource intensive either because they are nearly complete or just 
starting and entail primarily the exploratory or piloting phases of our work. Where the resource intensity is higher, it is 
generally indicative of a longer term priority that is nearing completion. Attachment 2 provides a clean copy of the new 
proposed Priorities.
At the meeting, staff will be available to answer any remaining questions and will be seeking final direction on the 
Priorities so we can proceed to the third and final step, which is to finalize and adopt the list as part of the City’s annual 
budgeting process. Tonight, we ask Council:
1.
Do you have any final revisions to the verbiage of any of the priorities?
2.
Do you have any final revisions to the category of any of the priorities?
3.
Are there any priorities you wish to remove? 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. A majority of the resource requirements for the adopted Priority List are 
incorporated into the fiscal year 2024-25 budget proposal and the remainder will be brought back as needed, as the 
projects evolve following further analysis and Council direction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This information update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Priorities Full Markup
Att 2 - Draft Priorities Clean
STAFF CONTACT
Christina Horrisberger
Assistant City Manager
chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7210
865 of 891

--- page 866 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN THE FISCAL YEAR
1
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings 
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use 
by 2030.
Medium
Continue to conduct community outreach and provide 
education; present findings to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission for recommendations to City 
Council; return to City Council with narrowed 
down final policy options and related resource needs 
for, and receive final Council direction on policy 
formation.
2
City Manager's Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide 
Community Outreach and Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications team, and 
retain professional communications consultants to 
reestablish regular eNews, implement biannual 
print newsletters, bolster social media campaigns,  
continue to improve high interest webpages, and 
work with staff Citywide to enhance public 
engagement, establish a townhall program, and 
develop civic engagement forums. Enhance 
customer service and community outreach training 
and education opportunities for staff citywide.
Consultant onboarded; 
cadence established for 
eNews, print news, and 
ongoing social media 
campaigns; Outreach and 
Engagement manual drafted.
3
Public Works
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for 
reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to 
evaluate City facilities and assets when upgrades 
are needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a 
Capital Improvement Program organizational 
assessment to optimize the process for identifying 
all City infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and assess 
the scheduling and budgeting methodologies. In 
addition, procure a consultant to complete a 
comprehensive facilities assessment to identify 
required improvements.
4
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Provide greater support to business development 
centers or mixed-use development areas to 
increase economic vitality.
Medium
Hire an economic consultant to provide peer 
reviews of proposed new development with ground 
floor commercial space; develop a list of best 
practices for ground floor commercial marketability 
that can be shared with developers and 
incorporated into future planning documents, 
including the Downtown Area Plan Update; 
continue to monitor commercial vacancies Citywide 
and engage with building owners as needed to 
Moved from 1 year to 2-5 
year implementation 
category to reflect ongoing 
nature of priority.
866 of 891

--- page 867 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
understand vacancy and support getting space re-
occupied.
5
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Continue Stormwater Master Plan Update and 
complete critical components of data collection. 
Complete Marina Lagoon Maintenance Dredging 
design and initiate construction in Summer 2025.
Combined with priority #31, 
revised the verbiage, and 
moved to 5+ years category 
due to ongoing nature of the 
work.
6
City Attorney's Office
Explore adopting a Gardening Waste ordinance.
Low
City Council consideration of an ordinance 
addressing gardening waste.
Removed due to completion.
74
City Manager's Office
Explore a resolution affirming the City's 
commitment to integrate new technologies, such as 
artificial intelligence (AI), without displacing work 
force.
Low
Research County of San Mateo resolution.Explore 
programs in use Countywide and what is already in 
use by staff and develop a plan to formalize 
integration of AI tools to assist staff without their 
displacement or compromising security.
Work has commenced on 
this item.
8
City Clerk's Office & Parks 
and Recreation
Increase organizational capacity to support the 
Toyonaka Sister City Program within the Parks & 
Recreation Department and City Clerk Department.
Medium
Develop a sister city policy or resolution to define 
City staff and non-profit roles and scope (look at 
Redwood City).
Removed - complete
59
Public Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of 
progress on all ongoing plans, including project 
updates and key metrics such as City mode share, 
collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual 
transportation review to City Council.
6
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
Added. 
76
City Manager’s Office
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial 
corridors
Low
Explore policy and enforcement options and 
present study session to Council.
Added
7
Parks and Recreation; 
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added 
867 of 891

--- page 868 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
8
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula Clean 
Energy in "Charge Forward San Mateo," a 
countywide effort to ensure that residents have 
equitable access to electric vehicle (EV) charging 
infrastructure (and reduce the county's greenhouse 
gas emissions from transportation, currently 49% of 
the region's emissions). Possibilities 
include: installing streetlight chargers near 
apartments and multifamily units; collaborating with 
Peninsula Clean Energy to identify apartment and 
multifamily contacts and offer financial and technical 
support for installing EV chargers; incentivize 
private employers to expand employee and 
customer EV charging.
Low
Conduct research and hold a City Council study 
session.
Added
9
City Manager’s Office
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the 
use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San 
Mateo.
Low/Medium
Draft an ordinance based on industry best practices 
for review and adoption by Council and develop an 
implementation and enforcement program.
Added
10
Police
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding 
program.
Low/Medium
City to work with the school districts over the next 
year to have the school districts help fund an 
additional school resource officer.
Added
11
City Clerk, City Manager’s 
Office, City Attorney
Develop City Council Code of conduct with 
measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo 
County Board of Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Low
Hold workshop and revise/update Council Rules and 
Procedures
Added
868 of 891

--- page 869 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
12
Community Development 
Department
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food 
trucks
Low
Work with various departments to explore available 
policy and enforcement options and present to 
Council at a study session.
Added
13
City Manager’s Office, 
City Attorney’s Office
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis 
storefront in downtown
Low
Explore available policy options along with potential 
revenue generation and present options to Council 
at a study session.
Added
14
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up from 2-5 years
15
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer 
Response Management or 311 system.
High
Onboard consultant support and select a suitable 
CRM that will work with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
16
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Break ground and complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one. 
17
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Engage in construction work throughout 2025. with 
completion targeted by the end of FY 25/26.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
18
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 2 TO 5 YEARS
1950
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections.
High
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor 
Standards and Enforcement.
11
City Manager's Office
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and 
community impact.
Low
Continuously cross reference all city planning 
documents to ensure consistency.
Removed
12
Public Works and City 
Manager's Office
Design and implement capital improvements for 
permanent street closure.
Medium
Complete construction of the B Street Pedestrian 
Mall Improvement Project by Fall 2024.
Removed
163
20
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for 
anticipated revenue from Measure CC.
Medium
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue. Report 
the results through quarterly updates.
14
Public Works
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood 
Assessment.
High
Continue coordination with FEMA on formal 
removal of flood zone designation by Summer 
2024/Fall 2024.
Removed
15
City Manager's Office
Explore the establishment of Property-Based 
Improvement Districts.
Medium
Bring a study session to council for discussion.
Removed and replaced with 
new more detailed priority 
from Council Member 
Lorraine.
869 of 891

--- page 870 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
1716
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer 
Response Management or 311 system.
High
Research methods by which the City currently 
receives service requests and back-end systems 
where requests are managed. SOnboard consultant 
support and select a suitable CRM that will work 
with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
Moved to year one
1817
21
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency 
preparedness.
High
Continue working with Office of Emergency 
Services on updates to the City's Emergency 
Operations Plan including associated staff training 
and exercises, ongoing training for staff roles and 
responsibilities at the Emergency Operations 
Center, and training on the transition to new virtual 
EOC software (Veoci); bolster City staff resources 
with emergency preparedness expertise; update 
departmental emergency plans and COOP/COGs; 
purchase additional emergencyemergency 
rations/provisions and equipment; pursue flood 
control permitting and upgrades; procure grant 
professional writing assistance; evaluate City 
infrastructure for resilience and fitness during 
disaster/extreme events.
Removed completed items 
from work plan
18
22
18
Community Development
Implement the adopted General Plan.
High
Support adoption of a resolution to place a ballot 
measure amending Measure Y on the November 
2024 election; initiateCommence a comprehensive 
Zoning Code update to implement the General 
Plan, including community outreach and 
engagement, starting with an RFP for a consultant 
to support the effort, with a target to initiate the 
update effort in Q3selection.
23
019
Community Development
Implement Housing Element Policies.
High
BeginContinue implementation of all 2023-2031 
Housing Element policies and programs with a 
2024/2025 and 2025/2026 target date.
210
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Complete design process, including addition 
structural analysis, by December 2024 and 
Moved to year one
870 of 891

--- page 871 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
beginEngage in construction work throughoutin 
late Spring 2025. with Ccompletione 
Constructiontargeted by the end of FY 25/26.
221
24
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 2025 
and award construction contract for Phase 5 
Summer 2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the 
Smooth Streets Program.Complete construction of 
Phase 4 by Fall 2024 and award construction 
contract for Phase 5 Spring 2025. Phase 5 is the 
final phase of the Smooth Streets Program.
Updated schedule and kept 
placement to allow for 
potential delays given project 
history and reliance on 
weather/outside factors
232
25
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to 
improve safety and reliability of the street light 
system.
High
Construction for Phase 4 is planned for Summer 
2025, with the schedule dependent upon PG&E. For 
Phase 5, design efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9 month lead time.Complete 
construction of Phase 3. Complete Design for Phase 
4 (Final Phase). Construction for Phase 4 is expected 
to begin in FY 25-26.
Schedule update based on 
PG&E input. Flextime 
included in 2-5 year priority 
category placement.
243
26
City Manager's Office
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown 
Activation Program as part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of 
Downtown.
27
Parks and Recreation; 
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner 
with the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added. 
254
28
Public Works
Prioritize planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of rapid safety improvement projects 
citywide and ensure there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing 
and future plans into a prioritized list. Develop an 
implementation strategy that includes staff 
resources and funding for each phase (planning, 
871 of 891

--- page 872 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
design, construction and maintenance). Continue to 
progress in safety projects in design, such as: 
Delaware Safe Routes to School Protected Bike 
Lane, Hillsdale GAP Closure, 3rd and Norfolk Safety 
Improvement Project.
265
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one
2726
29
City Clerk's Office & City 
Attorney's Office
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and 
decrease polarization.
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to 
current and future voters by, including registration 
events, utilizing mailers, and collaborating with 
service organizations. Staff will continue to conduct 
post-election review and will add additional metrics 
and analysis as an enhancement to this review.
2827
30
City Manager's Office and 
Human Resources
Work with schools, community colleges, 
businesses, and other organizations to expand 
youth and senior workforce development & civic 
leadership opportunities.
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by 
partnering with organizations, such as 
Empowerment Through Action and local 
businesses, and centralizing internships. Improve 
our volunteer program to attract and retain 
volunteers, especially seniors.
28
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up to 1 year category
29
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Provide greater support to business development 
centers or mixed-use development areas to 
increase economic vitality.
Medium
Regularly engage with hHired an economic 
consultant to provide peer reviews of proposed 
new development with ground floor commercial 
space; develop a list of best practices for ground 
floor commercial marketability that can be shared 
with developers and incorporated into future 
planning documents, including the Downtown Area 
Plan Update; continue to monitor commercial 
vacancies Citywide and engage with building 
owners as needed to understand vacancy and 
support getting space re-occupied.
Removed due to completion
3031
City Manager’s Office
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of 
San Mateo businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts (BIDs), including 
Medium/High
Conduct stakeholder mapping and identification in 
multiple targeted areas, create and conduct 
surveys, hold community meetings, visit businesses, 
Added
872 of 891

--- page 873 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
existing smaller districts outside of downtown, such 
as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs Shopping 
Center, and newer groupings such as sections of El 
Camino Real or downtown  businesses that may 
wish to pursue a property-based BID or other 
complementary structure to the existing Downtown 
San Mateo Association. 
etc. to gauge interest and needs and formulate 
what to present to Council at one or more study 
sessions.
321
Parks and Recreation
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior 
Centers
•
Senior Hubs: Expand our current senior 
programming offerings to better meet the 
needs of our senior community members by 
increasing the variety and frequency of 
events tailored specifically to seniors, such 
as adding options for engagement, 
socialization, and overall well-being. Also, 
investigate partnering with other 
organizations to provide coffee/tea or light 
refreshments that will enhance the overall 
experience but also encourage more 
participation by creating a welcoming and 
comfortable atmosphere.
Medium
Strategically identify which facilities(y) could best 
support piloting this type of program based on 
availability of space and staffing, and suitability of 
structure to remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, staffing, 
and outreach as needed to support the expansion 
of service.   
Added
332
City Manager’s Office, 
Public Works, Community 
Development
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a 
comprehensive strategy for resiliency and 
adaptation against sea level rise and flooding to 
ensure we are well poised for funding opportunities 
and include Foster City and Burlingame in planning 
efforts.
High
Use grant funding to commence this planned work, 
including consultant selection, ensuring all 
pertinent departments and our neighboring cities 
are included and any attention needed is given 
toward the future of the levy.
Added
34
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn 
noise at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification as quickly as possible. Staff to 
work with FRA and required stakeholders (e.g. 
CPUC, Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
Moved to year 2 to 5 from 5 
years or more
873 of 891

--- page 874 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
administrative steps to establish Quiet Zone by end 
of calendar year 2025.
29
Library
Implement Library Space Master Plan.
High
Complete rest of space enhance projects: Cafe, 
Lobby, Teen Area, Business Library, Jobseekers 
Space, Biotech Learning Center, Periodical Storage 
Space
Removed –to be integrated 
into Capital Improvement 
Program and brought back 
this Spring
330
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Staff will complete phase 1 of the Central Park 
Playground Improvements, which consist of 
directing the project manager to solicit bids and 
manage the construction process.Break ground and 
complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one.
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
3431
35
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan based on Stormwater Master 
Plan Update. Initiate and complete environmental 
approval process for dredging of the Marina 
Lagoon. Begin implementation of other highly 
prioritized stormwater capital improvement 
projects as funding and resources allow.
new combined priority.
3532
36
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 20350.
High
Complete design and initiate construction of City 
Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek 
additional grant funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD 
EV charging infrastructure improvements.
Updated project horizon
3633
37
Public Works
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent 
from the wastewater treatment plant upgrades to 
support the future production of potable water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water 
(formerly San Francisco Peninsula Regional 
Purification) project to pursue a wastewater 
purification facility at the Silicon Valley Clean Water 
facility in Redwood Shores.
3734
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn 
noise at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification by end of calendar year 2024as 
quickly as possible. Staff to work with FRA and 
required stakeholders (e.g. CPUC, Caltrain, and 
Union Pacific) to complete administrative steps to 
establish Quiet Zone by end of calendar year 2025.
Moved to year 2 to 5
874 of 891

--- page 875 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
38
35
38
Public Works
Study resource feasibility for the downtown grade 
separations and long-term train corridor 
improvements.
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, 
and design consultant to implement the feasibility 
study.
3936
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island 
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard.
High
Continue the design for 463338 Norfolk/Fashion 
Island intersection improvements. Continue design 
for the 19th Avenue Smart Corridor Project. Finalize 
negotiations to combine both projects on 19th 
Avenue and Fashion Island to help expedite 
delivery and coordination of both projects.The City 
is working with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Agency (TA) and leading the 
implementation of this project, with funding a 
constraint. Staff will continue working with the TA 
to evaluate options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, with the 
design efforts start date currently unconfirmed.
Schedule update; funding 
constraint inserted into work 
plan
4037
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority 
projects in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the 
Pedestrian Master Plan with the goal of prioritizing 
quick-build projects where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the 
Bike San Mateo Program in order toto expedite the 
design and delivery of all High and Med-High 
bicycle projects. This will include quick-build bicycle 
projects. Identify all incomplete PMP projects and 
develop a workplan for expedited completion. 
Complete design for the Delaware SRTS Protected 
Bike Lane Project, Hillsdale Gap Closure project and 
the 3rd and Norfolk Island Intersection Safety 
Improvement project. Continue to the design for 
the 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Class IV bike 
lane projects Some major projects 
complete/substantially underway.
41
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
Added
875 of 891

--- page 876 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
421
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve and build climate 
resiliency into the City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and levee systems, 
including dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Near Term (1-3 years): 
•
Adopt an updated Storm Drain Master Plan 
including a prioritized, long-term Capital 
Improvement Program.
•
Complete Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging 
design and construction.
•
Explore options for providing additional 
pumping capacity at the Marina Lagoon 
Pump Station and increasing overall 
resiliency for climate change and more 
intense storm events.  
•
Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan to 
establish a comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against sea level 
rise and flooding, including a prioritized list 
of projects, and in accordance with BCDC 
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan 
requirements. 
•
Pursue funding for implementation of a 
comprehensive flood management study 
with the Army Corps of Engineers per the 
City’s federal Water Resources 
Development Act authorization.  
•
Initiate design on high priority stormwater 
capital improvement projects identified in 
the Storm Drain Master Plan
Medium Term (4-5 years):
•
Complete design, environmental review, and 
permitting process for large-scale 
maintenance dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Combined Existing priorities 
#5 & 31 with Council 
Member Cwirko-Godycki’s 
proposed priority #1. 
876 of 891

--- page 877 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
•
Begin implementation of high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan.
•
Collaborating with relevant stakeholders, 
pursue prioritized funding for shoreline 
adaptation projects as identified in the Sea 
Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
Long Term (6+ years):
•
Continue implementing priority projects 
from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
              Initiate design, environmental review,        
              and permitting on priority shoreline  
              adaptation projects
877 of 891

--- page 878 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN THE FISCAL YEAR
1
City Manager's Office
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings 
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 
2030.
Medium
Continue to conduct community outreach and provide 
education; present findings to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission for recommendations to City 
Council; return to City Council final policy options and 
related resource needs for, Council direction.
2
City Manager's Office
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide 
Community Outreach and Engagement Program.
High
Onboard and train new communications team, 
continue to improve high interest webpages and 
work with staff Citywide to enhance public 
engagement, establish a townhall program, and 
develop civic engagement forums. Enhance 
customer service and community outreach training 
and education opportunities for staff citywide.
Consultant onboarded; 
cadence established for 
eNews, print news, and 
ongoing social media 
campaigns; Outreach and 
Engagement manual drafted.
3
Public Works
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for 
reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to 
evaluate City facilities and assets when upgrades are 
needed.
High
Budget for and engage a consultant to complete a 
Capital Improvement Program organizational 
assessment to optimize the process for identifying 
all City infrastructure improvements, evaluate the 
process of prioritizing improvements, and assess the 
scheduling and budgeting methodologies. In 
addition, procure a consultant to complete a 
comprehensive facilities assessment to identify 
required improvements.
4
City Manager's Office
Explore a resolution affirming the City's commitment 
to integrate new technologies, such as artificial 
intelligence (AI), without displacing work force.
Low
Explore programs in use Countywide and what is 
already in use by staff and develop a plan to 
formalize integration of AI tools to assist staff 
without their displacement or compromising 
security.
Work has commenced on this 
item.
5
Public Works
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of 
progress on all ongoing plans, including project 
updates and key metrics such as City mode share, 
collision and safety data.
Low
Staff will gather key metrics and present an annual 
transportation review to City Council.
6
Public Works 
Complete Speed Surveys
Medium/High
Complete necessary analyses and adoption of 
ordinances as required by the California Vehicle 
Code to ensure speed limits on the City’s roadways 
are enforceable. Begin by developing an analysis 
Added. 
878 of 891

--- page 879 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
and implementation strategy for systematic 
evaluation of our roadways.
7
City Manager’s Office
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial 
corridors
Low
Explore policy and enforcement options and present 
study session to Council.
Added
8
City Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with 
Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula Clean Energy 
in "Charge Forward San Mateo," a countywide effort 
to ensure that residents have equitable access to 
electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure (and 
reduce the county's greenhouse gas emissions from 
transportation, currently 49% of the region's 
emissions). Possibilities include: installing streetlight 
chargers near apartments and multifamily units; 
collaborating with Peninsula Clean Energy to identify 
apartment and multifamily contacts and offer financial 
and technical support for installing EV chargers; 
incentivize private employers to expand employee 
and customer EV charging.
Low
Conduct research and hold a City Council study 
session.
Added
9
City Manager’s Office
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the 
use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San Mateo.
Low/Medium
Draft an ordinance based on industry best practices 
for review and adoption by Council and develop an 
implementation and enforcement program.
Added
10
Police
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding program.
Low/Medium
City to work with the school districts over the next 
year to have the school districts help fund an 
additional school resource officer.
Added
11
City Clerk, City Manager’s 
Office, City Attorney
Develop City Council Code of conduct with 
measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo 
County Board of Supervisors language with 
enforcement
Low
Hold workshop and revise/update Council Rules and 
Procedures
Added
12
Community Development 
Department
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food 
trucks
Low
Work with various departments to explore available 
policy and enforcement options and present to 
Council at a study session.
Added
13
City Manager’s Office, 
City Attorney’s Office
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis 
storefront in downtown
Low
Explore available policy options along with potential 
revenue generation and present options to Council at 
a study session.
Added
879 of 891

--- page 880 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
14
Public Works
Deliver the Clean Water Program.
High
Complete all identified construction projects by the 
end of FY 25/26.
Moved up from 2-5 years
15
City Manager's 
Office/Information 
Technology
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response 
Management or 311 system.
High
Onboard consultant support and select a suitable 
CRM that will work with existing back-end systems.
Added to lead department 
since IT is playing a major 
role in shepherding this 
project forward.
16
Parks & Recreation
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
High
Break ground and complete construction.
Updated schedule. Moved to 
year one. 
17
Library and Public Works
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
High
Engage in construction work throughout 2025. with 
completion targeted by the end of FY 25/26.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
18
City Manager's 
Office/Community 
Development
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
Medium
Identify funding source and amount (50k), staff 
resources, structure, and process.
Moved to year one from year 
2 to 5
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED WITHIN 2 TO 5 YEARS
19
City Manager's Office
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections.
High
Partner and work with the County's Office of Labor 
Standards and Enforcement.
20
Finance
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated 
revenue from Measure CC.
Medium
Continue to monitor Measure CC revenue. Report 
the results through quarterly updates.
21
City Manager's Office and 
Public Works
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency 
preparedness.
High
Continue working with Office of Emergency Services 
on updates to the City's Emergency Operations Plan 
including associated staff training and exercises, 
ongoing training for staff roles and responsibilities 
at the Emergency Operations Center, and training 
on the transition to new virtual EOC software 
(Veoci); update departmental emergency plans and 
COOP/COGs; purchase emergency equipment; 
pursue flood control permitting and upgrades; 
evaluate City infrastructure for resilience and fitness 
during disaster/extreme events.
Removed completed items 
from work plan
22
Community Development
Implement the adopted General Plan.
High
Commence comprehensive Zoning Code update to 
implement the General Plan, including community 
outreach and engagement, starting with consultant 
selection.
880 of 891

--- page 881 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
23
Community Development
Implement Housing Element Policies.
High
Continue implementation of all 2023-2031 Housing 
Element policies and programs with a 2024/2025 
and 2025/2026 target date.
24
Public Works
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
High
Complete construction of Phase 4 by Spring 2025 
and award construction contract for Phase 5 
Summer 2025. Phase 5 is the final phase of the 
Smooth Streets Program.
Updated schedule and kept 
placement to allow for 
potential delays given project 
history and reliance on 
weather/outside factors
25
Public Works
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to 
improve safety and reliability of the street light 
system.
High
Construction for Phase 4 is planned for Summer 
2025, with the schedule dependent upon PG&E. For 
Phase 5, design efforts are planned, but PG&E has 
requested a 9 month lead time.
Schedule update based on 
PG&E input. Flextime 
included in 2-5 year priority 
category placement.
26
City Manager's Office
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown 
Activation Program as part of our core City services.
High
Organize a committee to focus on the vibrancy of 
Downtown.
27
Parks and Recreation; City 
Manager’s Office
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with 
the San Mateo Union High School District, San 
Mateo-Foster City School District and other public, 
private and nonprofit organizations to support 
"Empower San Mateo," a community collaborative 
model aiming to help 1000 equity priority San Mateo 
students graduate and thrive. Possibilities include: 
evaluating how our city's assets (e.g. parks and 
recreation centers, libraries and more) could be 
further activated to support these and other San 
Mateo students; considering expansion/piloting of 
programming that could help such students find 
internships and local work experience, including 
within the City itself.
Medium
Map out and identify inter governmental and  
community stakeholder support. Affirm formal 
support from Both High School and Elementary 
School District School Boards. 
Added. 
28
Public Works
Prioritize planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of rapid safety improvement projects 
citywide and ensure there is a reliable City fund for 
long term success.
High
Consolidate safety projects identified in existing and 
future plans into a prioritized list. Develop an 
implementation strategy that includes staff 
resources and funding for each phase (planning, 
design, construction and maintenance). Continue to 
progress in safety projects in design, such as: 
Delaware Safe Routes to School Protected Bike Lane, 
Hillsdale GAP Closure, 3rd and Norfolk Safety 
Improvement Project.
881 of 891

--- page 882 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
29
City Clerk's Office & City 
Attorney's Office
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and 
decrease polarization.
Medium
Conduct a variety of educational outreach to current 
and future voters by, including registration events, 
utilizing mailers, and collaborating with service 
organizations. Staff will continue to conduct post-
election review and will add additional metrics and 
analysis as an enhancement to this review.
30
City Manager's Office and 
Human Resources
Work with schools, community colleges, businesses, 
and other organizations to expand youth and senior 
workforce development & civic leadership 
opportunities.
Medium
Attract and retain youth/young adult interns by 
partnering with organizations, such as 
Empowerment Through Action and local businesses, 
and centralizing internships. Improve our volunteer 
program to attract and retain volunteers, especially 
seniors.
31
City Manager’s Office
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of 
San Mateo businesses interested in forming 
business improvement districts (BIDs), including 
existing smaller districts outside of downtown, such 
as 25th Avenue and Crystal Springs Shopping 
Center, and newer groupings such as sections of El 
Camino Real or downtown  businesses that may 
wish to pursue a property-based BID or other 
complementary structure to the existing Downtown 
San Mateo Association. 
Medium/High
Conduct stakeholder mapping and identification in 
multiple targeted areas, create and conduct surveys, 
hold community meetings, visit businesses, etc. to 
gauge interest and needs and formulate what to 
present to Council at one or more study sessions.
Added
32
Parks and Recreation
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior 
Centers
•
Senior Hubs: Expand our current senior 
programming offerings to better meet the 
needs of our senior community members by 
increasing the variety and frequency of 
events tailored specifically to seniors, such as 
adding options for engagement, socialization, 
and overall well-being. Also, investigate 
partnering with other organizations to provide 
coffee/tea or light refreshments that will 
enhance the overall experience but also 
Medium
Strategically identify which facilities(y) could best 
support piloting this type of program based on 
availability of space and staffing, and suitability of 
structure to remain open and accessible in the 
foreseeable future. Update programing, staffing, 
and outreach as needed to support the expansion of 
service.   
Added
882 of 891

--- page 883 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
encourage more participation by creating a 
welcoming and comfortable atmosphere.
33
City Manager’s Office, 
Public Works, Community 
Development
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a 
comprehensive strategy for resiliency and adaptation 
against sea level rise and flooding to ensure we are 
well poised for funding opportunities and include 
Foster City and Burlingame in planning efforts.
High
Use grant funding to commence this planned work, 
including consultant selection, ensuring all pertinent 
departments and our neighboring cities are included 
and any attention needed is given toward the future 
of the levy.
Added
34
Public Works
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise 
at City at-grade crossings.
High
Complete construction of all rail safety measures 
required for Train Horn Noise Quiet Zone (Quiet 
Zone) qualification as quickly as possible. Staff to 
work with FRA and required stakeholders (e.g. 
CPUC, Caltrain, and Union Pacific) to complete 
administrative steps to establish Quiet Zone by end 
of calendar year 2025.
Moved to year 2 to 5 from 5 
years or more
ITEMS TO BE COMPLETED IN 5 YEARS OR MORE
35
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Adopt a prioritized, long-term 5-Year Capital 
Improvement Plan based on Stormwater Master 
Plan Update. Initiate and complete environmental 
approval process for dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
Begin implementation of other highly prioritized 
stormwater capital improvement projects as funding 
and resources allow.
new combined priority.
36
Public Works
Implement a Green Fleet by 2035.
High
Complete design and initiate construction of City 
Hall/City Plaza EV charging infrastructure 
improvements by end of calendar year 2025. Seek 
additional grant funding and plan for Corp Yard/PD 
EV charging infrastructure improvements.
Updated project horizon
37
Public Works
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent 
from the wastewater treatment plant upgrades to 
support the future production of potable water.
High
Continue participating in the Peninsula Pure Water 
(formerly San Francisco Peninsula Regional 
Purification) project to pursue a wastewater 
purification facility at the Silicon Valley Clean Water 
facility in Redwood Shores.
883 of 891

--- page 884 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
38
Public Works
Study resource feasibility for the downtown grade 
separations and long-term train corridor 
improvements.
High
Identify resource needs for staffing, grant writer, 
and design consultant to implement the feasibility 
study.
39
Public Works
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island 
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard.
High
The City is working with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Agency (TA) and leading the 
implementation of this project, with funding a 
constraint. Staff will continue working with the TA 
to evaluate options to reprogram funding from the 
construction phase to the design phase, with the 
design efforts start date currently unconfirmed.
Schedule update; funding 
constraint inserted into work 
plan
40
Public Works
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan with the goal of prioritizing quick-build 
projects where feasible.
High
Program all existing 2020 BMP projects into the Bike 
San Mateo Program to expedite the design and 
delivery of all High and Med-High bicycle projects. 
This will include quick-build bicycle projects. Identify 
all incomplete PMP projects and develop a workplan 
for expedited completion. Some major projects 
complete/substantially underway.
41
Public Works
Expedite efforts to improve and build climate 
resiliency into the City’s stormwater collection, 
conveyance, flood control, and levee systems, 
including dredging the Marina lagoon.
High
Near Term (1-3 years): 
•
Adopt an updated Storm Drain Master Plan 
including a prioritized, long-term Capital 
Improvement Program.
•
Complete Marina Lagoon Spot Dredging 
design and construction.
•
Explore options for providing additional 
pumping capacity at the Marina Lagoon 
Pump Station and increasing overall 
resiliency for climate change and more 
intense storm events.  
•
Develop a Sea Level Rise Adaptation Plan to 
establish a comprehensive strategy for 
resiliency and adaptation against sea level 
rise and flooding, including a prioritized list 
of projects, and in accordance with BCDC 
Combined Existing priorities 
#5 & 31 with Council 
Member Cwirko-Godycki’s 
proposed priority #1. 
884 of 891

--- page 885 ---
#
Department Lead(s)
Council Priority
Resource 
Intensity
Work Plan FY 25-26
Major Revisions
Regional Shoreline Adaptation Plan 
requirements. 
•
Pursue funding for implementation of a 
comprehensive flood management study 
with the Army Corps of Engineers per the 
City’s federal Water Resources Development 
Act authorization.  
•
Initiate design on high priority stormwater 
capital improvement projects identified in 
the Storm Drain Master Plan
Medium Term (4-5 years):
•
Complete design, environmental review, and 
permitting process for large-scale maintenance 
dredging of the Marina Lagoon. 
•
Begin implementation of high priority 
stormwater capital improvement projects 
identified in the Storm Drain Master Plan.
•
Collaborating with relevant stakeholders, 
pursue prioritized funding for shoreline 
adaptation projects as identified in the Sea 
Level Rise Adaptation Plan 
Long Term (6+ years):
•
Continue implementing priority projects 
from the Storm Drain Master Plan 
              Initiate design, environmental review,        
              and permitting on priority shoreline  
              adaptation projects
885 of 891

--- page 886 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting
POST PACKET
PUBLIC COMMENT
As of April 21, 2025, at 4:00 PM
886 of 891

--- page 887 ---
Oh Outlook

4/21/2025 agenda item #11 public comment: priority list adoption

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:45 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

| attended the Blue Sky Goal Setting Workshop on February 22. It
was an interesting, well-run meeting. Among the many good ideas
presented, the leaf blower ordinance in particular will not only

help our community, but also help us support our county and state
goals with respect to reducing carbon and smog-forming emissions.
Thanks to city staff and council members for their hard work, and
for showing up on a beautiful sunny Saturday.

Speaking now as a member of Quiet Clean San Mateo and the national
Quiet Clean Alliance —

Thank you Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash for sponsoring an ordinance
banning the use of highly polluting gas-powered leaf blowers. The
entire community, especially the equipment operators, will experience
better health and quality of life once the transition is made to
battery-powered tools. Good health is priceless! Because this is

a health initiative, we'd like the ordinance to go into effect no

later than January 1, 2026. This means announcing the ordinance
in June, to allow businesses a 6-month grace period to make the
transition. This is more than fair considering that some California
cities offer no grace period at all. We already have draft ordinance
language prepared to assist the city manager's office, and we are
ready to help communicate with landscaping businesses and their
customers regarding this improvement to their services.

We ask the council members and the city manager's office to let us
know precisely what they need to get this done for a January 2026
start date, including what is meant by the phrase "based on industry
best practices". Community members — that is, residents of the City
of San Mateo — are the ones who must be able to provide input to the
process.

We are here to help. Thank you.

Sincerely,

887 of 891


--- page 888 ---
Carol Wilhelmy, District 5 resident
quietcleansanmateo.org
quietcleanalliance.org

888 of 891


--- page 889 ---
lo M Outlook

City Priorities - Electric Leaf Blower Transition

From Dustin Chase

Date Mon 4/21/2025 3:41 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

I’d like to comment on the gas leaf blower regulation initiative. I have played a major
role in it, and I’d like to talk about why.

I am a part of a vulnerable, marginalized minority that tends to be severely harmed by
gas leaf blower pollution.

I am also part of a privileged, powerful minority. I have some resources and power that
many others do not have.

I am in a unique situation - I am both in a vulnerable, marginalized group and ina
powerful, privileged one. One of our responsibilities as privileged people is to look out
for those who are more vulnerable. I feel it is my role to use my experiences to help me
understand other vulnerable people, and to use my privilege to help shield them.

With this idea, our community asks “what can we do for our most vulnerable
neighbors?” I thank Council Member Diaz Nash for bringing this important idea
forward. We urgently need to transition to electric leaf blowers.

We know leaf blowers are not necessary for plant care. Blowing leaves is a luxury; it is
for the convenience of the property owner, who, rightly or wrongly, feels using hand
tools would take too long.

Very well. This ordinance will allow leaf blower use in San Mateo, but it will require
employers to switch from gas leaf blowers to electric leaf blowers.

This change is primarily for landscaping workers. Right now, they have to accept serious
short and long term health risks, not to mention ugly confrontation and nasty conflict
with other community members, just to make a living. That is not fair.

889 of 891


--- page 890 ---
Using gas leaf blowers is not fair to the rest of the community, either. The community
cannot adapt to them because they are impossible to use safely. But it’s possible to adapt
to the electric models. For starters, they have zero local emissions, so all the large
volumes of toxic substances and carcinogens that gas leaf blowers spew into our
neighborhoods, lingering near the ground long after the crews are gone, will be
eliminated.

The electric leaf blowers are also significantly quieter than gas models, and the noise
does not carry nearly as far or penetrate physical barriers as easily as gas leaf blower
noise does. In my experience, many electric leaf blowers are very quiet, and I can be
nearby without any trouble. Some electric leaf blower models are troublesome, but I
find my ear defense works well in those cases. We may not like electric leaf blowers, but
we can live with them.

Landscaping businesses tend to resist electric leaf blowers, but they like them once they
get used to them. These are safer, quieter tools with much lower operating costs. Workers
will have to adapt, but with the harms of gas leaf blowers being so great, that adaptation
is little to ask.

I want to acknowledge that many of us want to ban all leaf blowers and for good reasons,
including health and environmental protection. I’m sorry we cannot provide the
complete relief you have been searching for. We are doing the best we can.

We are offering harm reduction. In return, we are asking for the community's help.
Please help us spread the word about this upcoming rule change, and the reasons for it.
Please change your lawn service to electric leaf blowing as soon as possible, and ask
your neighbors to do the same.

Please be patient as we transition. I understand many of you are very frustrated, but
please don’t plan to rely completely on code enforcement. If you see a violation, try to
work things out. A simple conversation with your neighbor may be all you need to find
relief, and that diffuses any unnecessary conflict. If a landscaping worker is struggling
with this change, please think about what you could do to help them. Some simple
understanding might go a long way.

890 of 891


--- page 891 ---
We can’t live with gas blowers, but we can live together. Let us compromise and carry
on as a more healed community where everyone has a better chance to meet their
potential.

Thank you.

Dustin Chase
San Francisco Resident, former San Mateo resident

891 of 891
