--- page 1 ---
Council introduces proposed audit of
Toledo's Flock cameras
 
SEP 16, 2026
 
1:50 AM
Toledo City Council is requesting an independent audit of the city’s Flock Safety
cameras to ensure that the technology is being used appropriately.
The legislation was formally introduced Tuesday by Council President Vanice
Williams and Councilman John Hobbs III. The audit comes as many municipalities
in Ohio and across the country are reviewing the technology amid privacy
concerns from residents.
Council members could vote to approve the audit as early as Sept. 22.
“Residents have expressed concerns regarding the use, access, and sharing of
information through the Flock system under the control or supervision of the city
of Toledo,” Mr. Hobbs said. “This audit, we are hoping to have … all of these
things addressed and to be evaluated.”

--- page 2 ---
Flock Safety’s automated license plate recognition cameras photograph passing
vehicles, recognize license plates and vehicle identifiers, and store that information
in a database. The company’s software allows officers to search for vehicles and
receive real-time alerts if they match a vehicle sought by police.
If approved, the audit would evaluate policies, procedures, and controls that have
been used to ensure the information accessed, searched, shared, retained, and used
via the Flock system is for authorized and appropriate purposes.
Additionally, some of the other items the auditor could review as authorized by the
proposed legislation include:
● Searches performed by city personnel
● Searches of the city’s Flock network or data by outside agencies
● Network-sharing arrangements and controls governing access by outside
agencies
● Data-retention requirements
● Policies, procedures, training, and other requirements governing use of the
technology
● Controls designed to identify unauthorized or inappropriate use
● Compliance with the city’s policies
The city auditor, who is independent of the city, and works for city council, will
conduct the review.
Mr. Hobbs said the audit could be complete as soon as the end of October.
The proposed legislation would not pause the cameras while the audit is
performed, despite requests from several council members.
“I think it is imperative, at this point, that the administration pause the use of this
technology until we find out how to better protect our residents, who I think, are
very clear on this topic,” Councilman Nick Komives said at a council meeting last
week.
Section 30 of the Toledo Municipal Code states that council members can not
interfere, directly or indirectly, with the conduct of the mayor’s administration.

--- page 3 ---
While a council member could request to pause the cameras, they cannot require it.
Both Mr. Hobbs and Ms. Williams have spoken in support of the technology, and
the Toledo Police Department has continuously stated it is an essential tool for
investigations.
Still, there have been instances of misuse in other cities.
Columbus has paused its cameras amid an investigation into an officer who
allegedly searched the system for the same license plates hundreds of times. The
Monroe County Board of Commissioners in Michigan has also voted to end the
use of its license plate readers.
Toledo’s cameras will be further discussed at a public safety committee meeting
Thursday, which gives residents a chance to weigh in.
The council’s proposed audit comes about one month after Lucas County
Commissioner Pete Gerken called for an audit on the county’s use of Flock
cameras.
Mr. Gerken’s staff conducted an initial review of the county’s database, and from
June 20 to July 20, more than 904,000 searches were conducted by more than
3,200 agencies, according to the findings.
Like the Toledo Police Department, Lucas County Sheriff Mike Navarre has
defended the license plate readers, calling them a “crime-solving tool.”
The city’s public safety meeting on Flock cameras is scheduled for 4 p.m.
Thursday at One Government Center.
First Published September 16, 2026, 1:50 a.m.