Council introduces proposed audit of Toledo's Flock cameras | The Blade Enter-To-Win Obituaries Events Jobs Classifieds MENU SUBSCRIBE LOGIN REGISTER LOG OUT MY PROFILE Home Local News Sports A&E Business Opinion Contact Us eBlade NEWSLETTERS Warsh likely to side with financial markets over Trump as Fed rate hike expected Real estate transfers: 9/16 To the editor: Community investment must include the community Editorial: Politics hurts economy Mud Hens down Bats behind 3 home runs in 7th inning Area residents encouraged to save food waste for composting Blade Rewards Blade Vault Kennedy Center board votes to close over financial woes, Trump branding dispute, sources say Supreme Court rejects Trump mail ballot restrictions ahead of midterms Zelensky says Ukraine will pause strikes on Russia if Kremlin spares critical infrastructure Trump calls on Ukraine to halt strikes on Russian diesel, saying attacks causing a shortage Russia hits Poland-Ukraine border area targeting gas stations, Kyiv says NATO jets shoot down drone over Lithuania and Russian ship fires flares at Danish helicopter News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World Council introduces proposed audit of Toledo's Flock cameras New water, sewer lines in Dunbridge address water quality concerns Ohio elections chief unsurprised by high court's mail ballot decision Ohio EPA responds to spill after semi rollover in Toledo TPS earns 2 out of 5 stars; Ottawa Hills, Perrysburg tops locally Area residents encouraged to save food waste for composting Animals City Community Events Courts Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation Toledo's Bence Bertenyi claims medalist honors at Inverness Intercollegiate High school football: Liberty Center No. 1, Perrysburg 6th in 1st AP state poll Ryan Day calls Ohio State's Texas collapse 'maddening' as 6th-ranked Buckeyes seek quick fixes MAC football moving to 9-game conference schedule in 2028 Eastwood girls soccer stays unbeaten with penalty equalizer against Notre Dame Mud Hens down Bats behind 3 home runs in 7th inning Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye Editorial: Politics hurts economy Shribman: The long and winding road of conservatism Calmes: Instead of learning, Bush’s post-9/11 flubs revisited To the editor: Don't hold breath on $5K promise Editorial: Speak out on arch To the editor: Community investment must include the community Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter 2026 fall movie guide Storyteller Erickka Jones marks homecoming with new downtown podcast Monday memories: Even the youngest were determined to help victims after 9/11 Photo gallery: Toledo Card Show Season of the Arts: Toledo sees touring theater firsts in upcoming season ‘Widow’s Bay’ breaks Emmys comedy record with 14 wins including best comedy series Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant-Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio Real estate transfers: 9/16 U.S. stocks slip after oil prices and the bond market crank up the pressure AI stocks drop, but the rest of Wall Street holds steadier after oil prices give back an early jump $2M grant to fund water, sewer line repairs at Spitzer building New warnings about the risks of AI to humanity revive a long-running debate Warsh likely to side with financial markets over Trump as Fed rate hike expected Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology MENU ACCOUNT Subscribe Login Register Log out My Profile Subscriber Services Search SECTIONS HOME Homepage LOCAL Local Home Animals City Courts Community Events Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation NEWS News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World SPORTS Sports Home Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye A&E A&E Home Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio BUSINESS Business Home Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology OPINION Opinion Home Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter B PARTNERS B Partners Home B Partners Directory MEALS WITH MADDIE Meals with Maddie Home OTHER EBLADE ENTER-TO-WIN BLADE REWARDS BLADE VAULT / REPRINTS CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES JOBS CLASSIFIEDS BLADE HOMES HOMES WEEKLY ADS EVENTS CONTACT US / FAQ CONTACT US SUBSCRIBER GUIDE ADVERTISING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Advertisement MORE Council introduces proposed audit of Toledo's Flock cameras THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS Council introduces proposed audit of Toledo's Flock cameras Sep 16, 2026 1:50 AM Toledo City Council is requesting an independent audit of the city’s Flock Safety cameras to ensure that the technology is being used appropriately. The legislation was formally introduced Tuesday by Council President Vanice Williams and Councilman John Hobbs III. The audit comes as many municipalities in Ohio and across the country are reviewing the technology amid privacy concerns from residents. Council members could vote to approve the audit as early as Sept. 22. “Residents have expressed concerns regarding the use, access, and sharing of information through the Flock system under the control or supervision of the city of Toledo,” Mr. Hobbs said. “This audit, we are hoping to have … all of these things addressed and to be evaluated.” Flock Safety’s automated license plate recognition cameras photograph passing vehicles, recognize license plates and vehicle identifiers, and store that information in a database. The company’s software allows officers to search for vehicles and receive real-time alerts if they match a vehicle sought by police. If approved, the audit would evaluate policies, procedures, and controls that have been used to ensure the information accessed, searched, shared, retained, and used via the Flock system is for authorized and appropriate purposes. Additionally, some of the other items the auditor could review as authorized by the proposed legislation include: ● Searches performed by city personnel ● Searches of the city’s Flock network or data by outside agencies ● Network-sharing arrangements and controls governing access by outside agencies ● Data-retention requirements ● Policies, procedures, training, and other requirements governing use of the technology ● Controls designed to identify unauthorized or inappropriate use ● Compliance with the city’s policies The city auditor, who is independent of the city, and works for city council, will conduct the review. Mr. Hobbs said the audit could be complete as soon as the end of October. The proposed legislation would not pause the cameras while the audit is performed, despite requests from several council members. “I think it is imperative, at this point, that the administration pause the use of this technology until we find out how to better protect our residents, who I think, are very clear on this topic,” Councilman Nick Komives said at a council meeting last week. Section 30 of the Toledo Municipal Code states that council members can not interfere, directly or indirectly, with the conduct of the mayor’s administration. While a council member could request to pause the cameras, they cannot require it. Both Mr. Hobbs and Ms. Williams have spoken in support of the technology, and the Toledo Police Department has continuously stated it is an essential tool for investigations. Still, there have been instances of misuse in other cities. Columbus has paused its cameras amid an investigation into an officer who allegedly searched the system for the same license plates hundreds of times. The Monroe County Board of Commissioners in Michigan has also voted to end the use of its license plate readers. Toledo’s cameras will be further discussed at a public safety committee meeting Thursday, which gives residents a chance to weigh in. The council’s proposed audit comes about one month after Lucas County Commissioner Pete Gerken called for an audit on the county’s use of Flock cameras. Mr. Gerken’s staff conducted an initial review of the county’s database, and from June 20 to July 20, more than 904,000 searches were conducted by more than 3,200 agencies, according to the findings. Like the Toledo Police Department, Lucas County Sheriff Mike Navarre has defended the license plate readers, calling them a “crime-solving tool.” The city’s public safety meeting on Flock cameras is scheduled for 4 p.m. Thursday at One Government Center. First Published September 16, 2026, 1:50 a.m. HIDE COMMENTS SHOW COMMENTS LOADING COMMENTS Join the Conversation Reader comments are now hosted on our social media platforms. We invite you to share your perspective with fellow readers on Facebook and X . You can also make your voice heard by submitting a letter for our opinion pages . Featured Local Savings Featured Local Savings Must Read Partners Advertisement TRENDING A Flock Safety camera sits at the corner of West Central Avenue and Auburn Avenue in Toledo on Aug. 20. (THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS) Buy Image THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS Advertisement LATEST local Advertisement Advertising Contact Us Site Map About Us eBlade RSS Feeds Terms of Use Privacy Policy TOLEDO BLADE Copyright © 1997-2026 Toledo Blade Co. All rights reserved TOP Email a Story Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit