--- page 1 ---
Toledo council approves audit of Flock
camera use
 
ALICE MOMANY
The Blade
amomany@theblade.com

 
SEP 23, 2026
 
12:12 AM
Toledo City Council voted unanimously Tuesday to audit the city’s use of Flock
Safety cameras while allowing the cameras to remain in operation during the
review.
Council voted 9-0 to request an independent audit of the city’s use and oversight of
the Flock system. The audit will examine how information is accessed, searched,
shared, retained, and used.
Councilmen Nick Komives and Brittany Jones were absent from Tuesday’s
meeting, and Councilman Cerssandra McPherson was not present for the vote.
The audit comes as Toledo residents and council members have expressed
increasing concerns about privacy, surveillance, and potential misuse.

--- page 2 ---
It also comes as other municipalities in Ohio and across the country have cut ties
with the technology.
Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers photograph passing vehicles and
record license plates and other identifying features in a database. Police can search
the database and receive real-time alerts when a camera detects a vehicle they are
seeking.
During council’s public safety committee meeting on Thursday, Toledo Police
Chief Michael Troendle said he is not aware of any misuse of the Flock system by
Toledo officers but that he supports the independent audit.
“We won’t fight the audit,” Chief Troendle said. “We want our officers to be using
the cameras in the correct way, and if someone is misusing our technology, we
want to know about it.”
While he supports the audit, Chief Troendle said he is not interested in pausing the
cameras.
Although none of the council members called on the administration to pause the
cameras Tuesday night, several members previously said they felt the cameras
should be paused while an audit is conducted.
“I do feel like we should pause our Flock system at least during that time,”
Councilman Mac Driscoll previously said. “[But] that’s an administrative
decision.”
Section 30 of the Toledo Municipal Code prohibits council members from
interfering directly or indirectly with the mayor’s administration. Council could
request that the cameras be paused but could not require it.
Toledo Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz confirmed after the meeting that the cameras
would not be paused during the audit, but he said if the audit reveals abuse of the
system, the city could turn them off.
The legislation passed by council Tuesday authorizes the city auditor to evaluate
policies, procedures, and controls used to ensure that information accessed,
searched, shared, retained, and used via the Flock system is for authorized and
appropriate purposes.
Auditor John Rivalsky is independent of the city and works for Toledo City
Council.

--- page 3 ---
Some of the other items Mr. Rivalsky could review as authorized by the legislation
include:
● Searches performed by city personnel.
● Searches of the city’s Flock network or data by outside agencies.
● Network-sharing arrangements and controls governing access by outside
agencies.
● Data-retention requirements.
● Policies, procedures, training, and other requirements governing use of the
technology.
● Controls designed to identify unauthorized or inappropriate use.
● Compliance with the city’s policies.
Councilman John Hobbs III, who co-sponsored the legislation with Council
President Vanice Williams, estimated the audit could be complete as soon as the
end of October.
In other business, council members:
● Voted 9-0 to amend the Toledo Municipal Code to add licensing requirements for
hotels and motels.
● Voted 1-8 against a recycling audit contract with GT Environmental Inc. Of the
members present, only Councilman Sam Melden voted in favor of the audit. Other
members cited concerns with the need for the audit, as well as the funding for it.
● Gave a first reading to an ordinance that would add a chapter to the Toledo
Municipal Code that would reinforce state protections for tenants from retaliatory
evictions by landlords.
First Published September 23, 2026, 12:12 a.m.