Council debates Flock contract renewal as public safety concerns persist | The Blade Enter-To-Win Obituaries Events Jobs Classifieds MENU SUBSCRIBE LOGIN REGISTER LOG OUT MY PROFILE Home Local News Sports A&E Business Opinion Contact Us eBlade NEWSLETTERS 40 mayors worldwide endorse a pact to shape data center development White Sox walk off Guardians 6-5 Woodruff's stellar return and Ortiz's sacrifice fly in 10th lift Brewers past Reds Riley Greene, Framber Valdez lead Tigers past Yankees for 4th straight win Editorial: Seizing the economic future $75 caviar-topped tots. A day's pay worth of beer. Here's the World Cup menu — and prices Blade Rewards Blade Vault Vance says talks with Iranian officials set 'good foundation' for deal to end war Clive Davis, music industry starmaker, has died at 94 Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan dies at 100 Starmer announces he'll resign as UK prime minister with Burnham confirming bid to succeed him Starmer is on the precipice as pressure builds for the UK leader to resign Michigan floods expose lack of information, preparation in many rural areas News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World Judge rules Maumee zoning code enforced improperly against building owner Ohio capital budget includes $400K for Van Wert history center As housing pressures grow, Toledo leaders push for local solutions Parts of Richards, Angola roads to close for work Levis Commons hosts free events ahead of Fourth of July Council debates Flock contract renewal as public safety concerns persist Animals City Community Events Courts Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation Woodruff's stellar return and Ortiz's sacrifice fly in 10th lift Brewers past Reds Riley Greene, Framber Valdez lead Tigers past Yankees for 4th straight win St. John's football to move up from Division II to Division I Briggs: What's next for Michigan — and embattled AD — after Dusty May's bombshell exit to NBA? Mike Boynton promoted to interim coach at Michigan as Dusty May leaves for the NBA White Sox walk off Guardians 6-5 Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye To the editor: In reality, there is no crisis in Old West End To the editor: Do not tire in political quest Morici: U.S. must repair, harden, maintain Mideast bases To the editor: Why there’s a street sign for Monsignor Schmit Editorial: Don’t underutilize Glass City Riverwalk Editorial: Seizing the economic future Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter Photo gallery: Drum circle Back in business: Sarnie's opens up shop in downtown Toledo Indie movie 'Method' trains locals to handle film sets Hendel: Mills race keeps focus on sailing, tradition Review: 'The Death of Robin Hood' drains the blood, and life, out of an old English legend Monday Memories: Lunch perch had bird’s eye view Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant-Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio 40 mayors worldwide endorse a pact to shape data center development U.S. stocks drift after oil prices ease and Big Tech stocks fall Speed networking event to connect local professionals Father, daughter team up to help Toledo children through new program Health-care sector emerges as a lifeline for struggling job seekers $75 caviar-topped tots. A day's pay worth of beer. Here's the World Cup menu — and prices Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology MENU ACCOUNT Subscribe Login Register Log out My Profile Subscriber Services Search SECTIONS HOME Homepage LOCAL Local Home Animals City Courts Community Events Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation NEWS News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World SPORTS Sports Home Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye A&E A&E Home Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio BUSINESS Business Home Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology OPINION Opinion Home Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter B PARTNERS B Partners Home Ability Center Anthem Blue Cross Arrowhead Behavioral Balance & Mobility BGSU Black Diamond Blue Ribbon Hemp Bolt Express Boyk Law Offices CASA Epworth Church Exciting Windows by Couture Fair Housing Center Finixio Fulton Cty Health Center Glass City Academy GTCF Hammill Medical Holiday Gift Guide Holt Roofing Company Homes HOPE Toledo Hylant Imagination Station JustCBD Kapios Keystone Kids of Character La-Z-Boy Leadership Toledo Levis Commons Lott Industries Lourdes University Lucas County Recorder Luther Home of Mercy McLaren St. Luke's Med1Care Medtronic Mighty Earth Ministry of Hemp Miracle-Ear Mission Lean MVCDS Nationwide Children Hospital Ohioans Home Healthcare OSU Engineering Oswald Companies Phoenix Investors ProMedica ProMedica Medical Mgmt Readers' Choice Awards Restaurants Ronald McDonald House Shumaker Solheim Cup Spengler Nathanson TARTA Ternion Toledo Clinic Toledo Museum of Art Toledo Public Library Toledo Zoo & Aquarium United Way University of Toledo UT Physicians UTMC USA Insulation Zenobia Shriners MEALS WITH MADDIE Meals with Maddie Home OTHER EBLADE ENTER-TO-WIN BLADE REWARDS BLADE VAULT / REPRINTS CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES JOBS CLASSIFIEDS BLADE HOMES HOMES WEEKLY ADS EVENTS CONTACT US / FAQ CONTACT US SUBSCRIBER GUIDE ADVERTISING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Advertisement MORE Council debates Flock contract renewal as public safety concerns persist THE BLADE/LAURA AMEZQUITA Council debates Flock contract renewal as public safety concerns persist Jun 23, 2026 12:32 AM Concerns about public safety arose on Monday as Toledo City Council’s Public Safety Committee considered a contract extension with Flock Group Inc. for portable automatic license plate readers. The proposed ordinance would amend Toledo's existing agreement with Flock for a one-year extension for the operation of portable license plate readers through the Toledo Police Department's Real-Time Crime Center. Support came primarily from Toledo police officials, prosecutors, and Flock representatives, who argued the technology has become an essential tool for investigations. Deputy Chief Kevin Braun told council that Flock technology has assisted in investigations of all sorts of crimes. “Just about every felony case has used Flock in one way or another,” he said. “I can't overstate how useful it is.” Maggie Koch, an assistant Lucas County prosecutor, said the cameras have become an important source of evidence in criminal cases. “I cannot stand in front of a jury of our community and say, ‘Find this individual guilty because I said so,’” she said. “There has to be evidence, and Flock cameras have assisted us.” Council presented substantial questions to Flock representatives in attendance. Councilman Theresa Gadus cited reports from Washington state that examined how outside agencies accessed license plate reader data. “How can the city of Toledo ensure that that doesn’t happen here?” she asked. Trevor Chandler, senior director of public affairs of Flock, said the company does not own data collected by local agencies. “Every city has control over what they share and who they share it with,” he said. Addressing concerns raised by Ms. Gadus regarding the handling of sensitive information, Mr. Chandler said data is permanently deleted once retention periods expire. “Once that data is deleted, it is hard deleted off of all of the servers,” he said. Ms. Gadus also raised concerns about reports from other jurisdictions involving searches related to immigration and reproductive health. Mr. Braun said Toledo has enabled filters that block both immigration and reproductive health searches. Councilman Erin Kramer asked about oversight mechanisms designed to prevent misuse of the system. Mr. Chandler emphasized the security measures that Flock has put into place. “We are every month putting in additional features,” he said. “We’re working to make it easier to identify patterns and potential misuse.” He said improper use of Flock has only occurred in isolated cases. “There have been publicly reported maybe two dozen examples of misuse,” Mr. Chandler said. “We have around 100,000-plus users of Flock per month.” Councilman George Sarantou expressed support of the system, echoing that reported misuse cases represent a small fraction of its overall use. “Only two dozen cases out of at least one billion,” he said Public commentary during the meeting was extensive, with a majority of individuals opposed to the technology due to risks to privacy and civil liberties. Susan Kuehn, co-chair of the Northwest Ohio Peace Coalition, said the cameras are an offense to First Amendment rights. “F lock cameras have been used and will be used against activists simply exercising their right of free speech,” she said. Tom Pruss, Libertarian candidate for Ohio Secretary of State, described the issue as a choice between expanded government surveillance and individual privacy protections. “This is a discussion of the relationship between citizens and government,” he said. “Mass surveillance treats every citizen as a potential suspect.” Rebecca Bundy, a Toledo attorney, urged council members to consider how surveillance technologies unequally affect minority residents. “Safety depends very much on who is the watcher and who is the watched,” she said. “So I ask this council again to stand up for members of our community who are most vulnerable.” Council is expected to vote on the contract Tuesday, following the defeat of a two-year extension proposal last week. First Published June 23, 2026, 12:25 a.m. HIDE COMMENTS SHOW COMMENTS LOADING COMMENTS Join the Conversation Reader comments are now hosted on our social media platforms. We invite you to share your perspective with fellow readers on Facebook and X . You can also make your voice heard by submitting a letter for our opinion pages . Featured Local Savings Featured Local Savings Must Read Partners Advertisement TRENDING Trevor Chandler, senior director of public affairs of Flock, addresses the Toledo City Council Public Safety Committee on June 22. (THE BLADE/LAURA AMEZQUITA) Buy Image Susan Kuehn of the Northwest Ohio Peace Coalition expresses her concerns to the Public Safety Committee on Monday. (THE BLADE/LAURA AMEZQUITA) Buy Image THE BLADE/LAURA AMEZQUITA Advertisement LATEST local Advertisement Advertising Contact Us Site Map About Us eBlade RSS Feeds Terms of Use Privacy Policy TOLEDO BLADE Copyright © 1997-2026 Toledo Blade Co. All rights reserved TOP Email a Story Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit