--- page 1 ---
County commissioners reverse decision
to pay for automated license plate
readers
 
JUL 23, 2025
 
6:48 PM
In an unusual about-face, Lucas County commissioners voted Tuesday to rescind
previously approved funding for license plate surveillance in Lucas County.
At a commissioners’ meeting the week prior, the commissioners unanimously
approved a $250,000, four-year contract between the sheriff’s office and Flock
Group, a security technology company.
Flock Group provides its signature Falcon LPR camera systems, which, in
conjunction with its proprietary software platform, allow operators to monitor and
track license plates and vehicle details throughout its operational zone.
According to the previously approved resolution, Lucas County would pay the
company $62,500 per year for its software platform and for 25 Falcon cameras.

--- page 2 ---
At Tuesday’s meeting, Commissioner Pete Gerken announced the resolution to
rescind, previously unscheduled on the day’s agenda.
“I did vote yes on that [previous resolution]. Having time to reflect on my vote, I
would like to rescind the approval of that agreement,” Mr. Gerken said.
He told the other commissioners that, despite previously voting to approve funding
without argument, he later realized Lucas County should not further the “mass
surveillance” of its citizens.
“It is inappropriate for the sheriff, in the time of budget constraints on all of us, to
spend $250,000 to mass surveil our community without any intended outcome,”
Mr. Gerken said.
He added that systems like the Flock license plate readers couldn’t be trusted with
the vast amounts of data they collect, and that such programs have had “chilling
effects on our population, especially the minority population.”
The original agreement with Flock, presented by Kristie Mundt of the Lucas
County Sheriff’s Office on July 15, would have committed Lucas County to a four-
year contract running through May, 2029.
That day, all three commissioners passed the agreement without any questions or
concerns, and it was Mr. Gerken who first moved to pass the motion to fund the
initiative.
He and Anita Lopez voted Tuesday in favor of the resolution to rescind.
Commissioner Lopez was also concerned about Flock’s effectiveness and said she
felt it was “reasonable” to rescind the agreement.
Ms. Lopez said she hopes to see the data on how Flock has “been used in other
areas, how it has helped [in] preventing crime or identifying individuals who may
be wanted in other jurisdictions.” She also said she prefers a one-year contract,
rather than the previously approved four-year contract.
She said she appreciated the fact that the commissioners were able to review their
previous decision, rather than sticking with a bad decision.
“Too many times, elected officials make a vote, have questions afterward, and then
are too afraid to come back forward and say ‘let’s review this again,’” Ms. Lopez
said.

--- page 3 ---
Commissioner Lisa Sobecki welcomed the idea that concerns with Flock should be
addressed again, but said she preferred to withhold on canceling the contract until
after the commissioners made an educated decision on how to proceed.
Earlier in the meeting, Mr. Gerken had another impromptu moment, when he
publicly pushed back against a Toledo Blade op-ed by Lucas County Treasurer
Lindsay Webb.
Ms. Webb’s piece, published July 19, lambasted the commissioners for
overextending its borrowing so much that it endangers core services.
Mr. Gerken denied that core services were under threat.
“She’s wrong. She’s uninformed on this,” Mr. Gerken said. “Our bond ratings are
good, we’ve increased wealth, we have maintained good reserves.”
Mr. Gerken also added that the county treasurer should not be commenting
publicly about these issues.
“She’s the treasurer. Her job is to do two things: collect taxes and collect
delinquent debt,” he said. “I would suggest maybe she ought to stick to that.”
When presented with Mr. Gerken’s comments Tuesday afternoon, Ms. Webb said
Mr. Gerken previously approached her for help regarding bond issuances for the
conversion of the Park Inn into a Hilton Garden Inn and Homewood Suites, but
didn’t “like the answer” she gave.
“The commissioner came to me and asked me to help him with the short-term
issuances for the hotel. I proposed a strategy to pay down that debt. They did not
like the answer, and now, according to their own policy, this year they have to
come up with a strategy for paying down that debt,” she told The Blade.
Ms. Webb was referring to policy 36 of the Lucas County Commission, which
outlines its debt management policy. Ms. Webb also said she felt that the
commissioners should re-examine its debt management policy, which was last
updated in 2009.
“The very policy that should govern their decisions about debt issuances dates to
2009, which makes it outdated,” she said.
She also responded Tuesday to Mr. Gerken’s statement that it was improper for her
to write a Letter to the Editor.

--- page 4 ---
While the commissioners makes the ultimate spending decisions, she said, “I am
responsible for paying for those decisions, so I am doing my job by raising
questions on behalf of the taxpayers that I serve.”
First Published July 22, 2025, 10:28 p.m.