--- page 1 ---
Toledo City Council approves Flock
camera contract extension in 8-4 vote
 
JUN 24, 2026
 
12:20 AM
After weeks of debate over public safety and privacy concerns, Toledo City
Council approved a one-year extension of the city’s contract with Flock Group Inc.
on Tuesday.
The ordinance authorizes a one-year continuation of the Toledo Police
Department’s use of Flock cameras. Council approved the measure 8-4.
Councilmen Erin Kramer, Theresa Gadus, Brittany Jones, and Nick Komives voted
against the measure.
Other council members expressed their support for the cameras as tools for the
police force.
“I am not in the mindset to take tools away from police that actually help our
community,” Council President Vanice Williams said. “I am all about giving police

--- page 2 ---
what they need to do good work.”
Councilman George Sarantou also supported the extension.
“I think it’s a valuable tool,” he said. “Very few errors have occurred.”
Concerns about private companies handling public data deserve attention but
should be addressed separately from police officer access to investigative tools,
said Councilman Sam Melden.
“We need to govern that use separately,” he said.
Councilman Adam Martinez agreed with the distinction between issues of data
privacy and the use of cameras as police tools.
However, Ms. Kramer said she remained concerned about the privacy implications
of the technology.
“I support TPD in all that they do, but we do need to listen to the residents and
look at what is happening across our country,” she said.
Ms. Kramer recalled public opposition from Monday’s public safety meeting and
the multitude of emails she has received.
“It gives me pause when I hear from so many residents,” she said. “I have some
real concerns.”
The council also unanimously approved an ordinance for a safety zone during the
Fourth of July fireworks in Promenade Park.
The safety zone will be in effect from 6 p.m. July 4 through 6 a.m. July 5. It will
also establish youth supervision requirements and enforcement provisions.
While Ms. Williams acknowledged that the safety zone ordinance is needed over
the holiday, she also emphasized that it is not meant to exclude young people from
public events.
“I hope that we can all understand that we are doing this so our residents can be
safe when going out for events, but we are not being exclusive to our youth,” she
said.
Mr. Martinez said the council’s work on the issue is far from finished.

--- page 3 ---
“I want to ensure that there’s a working committee and more legislation coming,”
he said.
Council also voted on two proposals for new gas stations.
A special-use permit that would have allowed gasoline and fuel sales at 1322
Bernath Pkwy. failed in an 11-1 vote.
Mr. Martinez, who voted against the permit, acknowledged the significant
opposition from residents.
“There was a lot of community, I don’t want to say outrage, but they were not
supportive of it,” he said.
Although the fuel sales permit was denied, council approved related legislation
removing the property from an existing community unit plan and approving a
zoning change.
Council did approve in a 9-3 vote a special-use permit for gasoline and fuel sales
at 5305 and 5321 Monroe St. and 4700 Nantuckett Dr.
The proposal will allow a Sheetz development to move forward despite public
concerns about traffic and neighborhood impact.
In other business, council unanimously approved legislation authorizing
expenditures related to the city’s spent lime removal program.
First Published June 24, 2026, 12:20 a.m.