Toledo council approves audit of Flock camera use | The Blade Enter-To-Win Obituaries Events Jobs Classifieds MENU SUBSCRIBE LOGIN REGISTER LOG OUT MY PROFILE Home Local News Sports A&E Business Opinion Contact Us eBlade NEWSLETTERS At St. John Lutheran in Williston, women stitch from the heart Polo off Mexican coast is among 'the strongest storms ever' as Odalys becomes a hurricane Plan It Calendar: 9/24-9/30 Editorial: Ramaswamy ducks press To the editor: Blade paper boy learns life lessons TPS paraprofessional shortage leaves families seeking help Blade Rewards Blade Vault Polo off Mexican coast is among 'the strongest storms ever' as Odalys becomes a hurricane Trump says U.S. and Iranian officials met Tuesday, shortly after warning he may 'annihilate' Iran News outlets sue Trump over lost White House access, citing 'blatant violation' of First Amendment War, runaway AI and climate shocks to take center stage as world leaders meet at U.N. The main Kremlin party wins tighter control of parliament in Russia's carefully orchestrated vote At St. John Lutheran in Williston, women stitch from the heart News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World BIKEtoberFEST to support youth action sports program Photo Gallery: Ohio Tech Day at BGSU Rising costs top concern at Ohio Farm Science Review Toledo council approves audit of Flock camera use Local Democratic parties call on Kaptur to pull transgender campaign ads TPS paraprofessional shortage leaves families seeking help Animals City Community Events Courts Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation Williamson throws six sharp innings as Reds blank Braves 4-0 Lowe's sacrifice fly breaks tie and lifts Guardians past Red Sox 3-2 Photo gallery: Anthony Wayne vs. Southview boys soccer Simon’s hat trick, set-piece prowess propels Anthony Wayne boys soccer past Southview High school football: Central Catholic, Archbold climb in AP state poll CJ Abrams homers twice, drives in three runs as Nationals beat Tigers 3-1 Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye To the editor: Blade paper boy learns life lessons To the editor: State legislature misleading on school funding’s base cost Hussain: An ode to St. Luke’s Hospital Editorial: County money unaccounted Robbins: Amid secrecy, Qatar floods zone with cash Editorial: Ramaswamy ducks press Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter Toledo Museum of Art acquires rare Bolivian modernist painting Toledo Opera and longtime director ‘part ways’ weeks before new show Box Office: 'Resident Evil' tops box office with franchise best debut of $60 million BGSU researcher leads push against dangerous opioid in Ohio Monday Memories: Wild celebration followed UT's win over Pitt in 2003 Plan It Calendar: 9/24-9/30 Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant-Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio States settle lawsuit over Paramount-Warner merger, clearing key hurdle for $81 billion deal Wall Street rallies within 0.4% of its record after oil prices and bond yields ease The humans are rejecting the machines that were supposed to help them U.S.-Canada trade war further taxes small businesses as costs rise during the Iran war Mouthfeel joins flavor as a food industry focus to satisfy consumers craving extra texture Wall Street holds near its record after Brent oil falls below $100 per barrel Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology MENU ACCOUNT Subscribe Login Register Log out My Profile Subscriber Services Search SECTIONS HOME Homepage LOCAL Local Home Animals City Courts Community Events Daily Log Dogs for Adoption Education Environment Homicides Police Fire Politics Suburbs Transportation NEWS News Home Deaths Health & Well-Being Medical Nation Religion World SPORTS Sports Home Amateur BGSU Browns Cavaliers College Golf Guardians High School Lions Michigan Mud Hens Ohio State Outdoors Owens Pistons Pro Red Wings Tigers UT Walleye A&E A&E Home Art Culture Food Gardening Living Movies Music, Theater, & Dance Peach Weekender Restaurant Reviews Toledo Magazine TV & Radio BUSINESS Business Home Agriculture Automotive Development Energy Labor Personal Finance Real Estate Retail Stock Market Technology OPINION Opinion Home Columnists Editorial Cartoons Editorials Letters to the Editor Submit a Letter B PARTNERS B Partners Home B Partners Directory MEALS WITH MADDIE Meals with Maddie Home OTHER EBLADE ENTER-TO-WIN BLADE REWARDS BLADE VAULT / REPRINTS CLASSIFIEDS OBITUARIES JOBS CLASSIFIEDS BLADE HOMES HOMES WEEKLY ADS EVENTS CONTACT US / FAQ CONTACT US SUBSCRIBER GUIDE ADVERTISING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Advertisement MORE Toledo council approves audit of Flock camera use THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS Toledo council approves audit of Flock camera use Sep 23, 2026 12:12 AM Toledo City Council voted unanimously Tuesday to audit the city’s use of Flock Safety cameras while allowing the cameras to remain in operation during the review. Council voted 9-0 to request an independent audit of the city’s use and oversight of the Flock system. The audit will examine how information is accessed, searched, shared, retained, and used. Councilmen Nick Komives and Brittany Jones were absent from Tuesday’s meeting, and Councilman Cerssandra McPherson was not present for the vote. The audit comes as Toledo residents and council members have expressed increasing concerns about privacy, surveillance, and potential misuse. It also comes as other municipalities in Ohio and across the country have cut ties with the technology. Flock Safety’s automated license plate readers photograph passing vehicles and record license plates and other identifying features in a database. Police can search the database and receive real-time alerts when a camera detects a vehicle they are seeking. During council’s public safety committee meeting on Thursday, Toledo Police Chief Michael Troendle said he is not aware of any misuse of the Flock system by Toledo officers but that he supports the independent audit. “We won’t fight the audit,” Chief Troendle said. “We want our officers to be using the cameras in the correct way, and if someone is misusing our technology, we want to know about it.” While he supports the audit, Chief Troendle said he is not interested in pausing the cameras. Although none of the council members called on the administration to pause the cameras Tuesday night, several members previously said they felt the cameras should be paused while an audit is conducted. “I do feel like we should pause our Flock system at least during that time,” Councilman Mac Driscoll previously said. “[But] that’s an administrative decision.” Section 30 of the Toledo Municipal Code prohibits council members from interfering directly or indirectly with the mayor’s administration. Council could request that the cameras be paused but could not require it. Toledo Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz confirmed after the meeting that the cameras would not be paused during the audit, but he said if the audit reveals abuse of the system, the city could turn them off. The legislation passed by council Tuesday authorizes the city auditor to evaluate policies, procedures, and controls used to ensure that information accessed, searched, shared, retained, and used via the Flock system is for authorized and appropriate purposes. Auditor John Rivalsky is independent of the city and works for Toledo City Council. Some of the other items Mr. Rivalsky could review as authorized by the legislation include: ● Searches performed by city personnel. ● Searches of the city’s Flock network or data by outside agencies. ● Network-sharing arrangements and controls governing access by outside agencies. ● Data-retention requirements. ● Policies, procedures, training, and other requirements governing use of the technology. ● Controls designed to identify unauthorized or inappropriate use. ● Compliance with the city’s policies. Councilman John Hobbs III, who co-sponsored the legislation with Council President Vanice Williams, estimated the audit could be complete as soon as the end of October. In other business, council members: ● Voted 9-0 to amend the Toledo Municipal Code to add licensing requirements for hotels and motels. ● Voted 1-8 against a recycling audit contract with GT Environmental Inc. Of the members present, only Councilman Sam Melden voted in favor of the audit. Other members cited concerns with the need for the audit, as well as the funding for it. ● Gave a first reading to an ordinance that would add a chapter to the Toledo Municipal Code that would reinforce state protections for tenants from retaliatory evictions by landlords. First Published September 23, 2026, 12:12 a.m. HIDE COMMENTS SHOW COMMENTS LOADING COMMENTS Join the Conversation Reader comments are now hosted on our social media platforms. We invite you to share your perspective with fellow readers on Facebook and X . You can also make your voice heard by submitting a letter for our opinion pages . Featured Local Savings Featured Local Savings Must Read Partners Advertisement TRENDING Toledo City Council voted Tuesday to request an independent audit of the city’s use and oversight of Flock Safety cameras. The cameras will remain in operation while the audit is conducted. (THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS) Buy Image THE BLADE/ADDISON ANNIS Advertisement LATEST local Advertisement Advertising Contact Us Site Map About Us eBlade RSS Feeds Terms of Use Privacy Policy TOLEDO BLADE Copyright © 1997-2026 Toledo Blade Co. All rights reserved TOP Email a Story Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit Your e-mail: Friends e-mail: Submit