--- page 1 ---
Toledo residents voice concerns about
Flock cameras
 
BY MIKE SIGOV
BLADE STAFF WRITER
 
SEP 17, 2026
 
1:34 AM
Toledo residents have privacy and transparency concerns about the use, access, and
sharing of information through the city’s Flock Safety cameras.
“OK, you can block anybody if they’re on the [Flock camera] network, but what
the [expletive] are they doing with that information?” Marci Galambos, a city
resident for 53 years asked Wednesday. “And why are they pointed at our kids’
schools, taking pictures of our children, and why are they pointed at our parks?” 
Ms. Galambos spoke during a town hall meeting held by Toledo Councilman Erin
Kramer on the cameras. About 25 people attended the meeting at Heatherdowns
Branch Library in South Toledo.
A few other attendees, including Lynn Adkins, a longtime city resident, and CK
Kramer, an 18-year-old Owens Community College student who is Ms. Kramer’s
son, expressed similar concerns.

--- page 2 ---
Councilman Kramer said that she, too, is wary of Flock cameras, noting that she
voted against their use in the city.
Councilman Adam Martinez, who represents District 2, which covers the city’s
southwest and southern portions, also attended the session.
He spoke mainly about the Flock system’s perceived value as a crime-fighting tool
shared by communities across the nation for mutual benefit and about proposed
limitations of their use.
“Adam [Martinez] and I have, you know, our differences on those Flock cameras,”
Councilman Kramer said. “And I have continually voted no because I do worry
about the risk of having cameras everywhere.” 
Ms. Kramer then said the council is aware of residential concerns about the city’s
Flock cameras and is requesting an independent audit of them to ensure the
technology is being used appropriately.
She also invited those concerned about the Flock system to attend the Thursday
meeting of the council’s Public Safety & Criminal Justice Reform Committee that
has a Flock system discussion on the agenda.
The Wednesday meeting was the first in a six-event series of free, public
“Community Conversations with Councilwoman Erin Kramer” scheduled through
October.
The remaining 60-minute events all start at 6 p.m., scheduled as follows:
● Sept. 24, Sanger Branch Library, 3030 Central Ave.
● Sept. 29, Locke Branch Library, 703 Miami St.
● Oct. 8, Mott Branch Library, 1010 Dorr St.
● Oct. 14, Kent Branch Library, 3101 Collingwood Blvd.
● Oct. 22, Reynolds Corner Branch Library, 4833 Dorr St.
The meetings don’t have a fixed agenda and serve to help her “engage directly”
with her constituents throughout the city, Ms. Kramer, an at-large councilman, said
before the event. She noted that she has been on the council since January.

--- page 3 ---
The audit legislation she referenced Wednesday was formally introduced Tuesday
by Council President Vanice Williams and Councilman John Hobbs III, following
an 8-4 vote in June to extend the Flock contract for one year. 
The proposed audit comes as many municipalities in Ohio and across the country
are reviewing the technology amid residents' privacy concerns.
Council members could vote to approve the audit as early as Sept. 22.
First Published September 17, 2026, 1:34 a.m.