Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Amberley Village OH PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Sep 15 2026

Overview

The Amberley Village Police Department utilize Flock Safety technology to enhance public safety while protecting individual privacy. This technology is used to capture objective evidence that assists investigators without compromising the privacy of law-abiding citizens. The system is not continuously monitored or used for continuous surveillance. Instead, it is primarily used as an investigative tool, with information being queried only when there is a legitimate law enforcement or public safety purpose. This includes investigating criminal activity, identifying vehicles associated with incidents, recovering stolen vehicles, locating wanted individuals, and assisting in the safe recovery of missing or endangered children and at-risk adults. The system also generates real-time alerts for vehicles associated with validated hotlists, enabling officers to respond more quickly to significant public safety threats. The Amberley Village Police Department are committed to transparency and the responsible use of technology. As part of that commitment, this Transparency Portal provides the public with information about our use of the Flock Safety system, including usage statistics and other relevant data, reinforcing our dedication to accountability while safeguarding both public safety and individual privacy.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

16

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

172,346

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

17

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,511
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Flock data is used for official law enforcement purposes only.

Prohibited Uses

The following uses of Flock Safety software are strictly prohibited; Immigration enforcement, proactive traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, gender, religion, political affiliation, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status), or other classification protected by law, or personal use of any nature.

Access Policy

System access is limited to authorized department personnel only, using their personal log-in credentials. Users must complete all mandated fields in the search page, and comply with Flock regulations.

Hotlist Policy

A Hotlist entry can only be added in compliance with department policies and directives. Officers shall take proactive steps to verify the validity of vehicles on the hot list before attempting to stop these vehicles.

Provided by Flock Safety