Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Amberley Village OH PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

Amberley Village OH PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Amberley Village OH PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Amberley Village OH PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

16

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

19

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,488
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Flock data is used for official law enforcement purposes only.

Prohibited Uses

The following uses of Flock Safety software are strictly prohibited; Immigration enforcement, proactive traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, gender, religion, political affiliation, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status), or other classification protected by law, or personal use of any nature.

Access Policy

System access is limited to authorized department personnel only, using their personal log-in credentials. Users must complete all mandated fields in the search page, and comply with Flock regulations.

Hotlist Policy

A Hotlist entry must be approved by the on-duty supervisor, and in compliance with department policies and directives. Officers shall take proactive steps to verify the validity of vehicles on the hot list before attempting to stop these vehicles.

Provided by Flock Safety