source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4e39706b9ade5f75b1efff944e292b3c0c1c814e28b7e9f580d7161431605b64
pages: 6
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
August 16, 2021
6:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 16, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 848 4851 6812
Passcode: 384823
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers' Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9
Name of Case: Michael Quenneville
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Green Fleet Vehicles – Update
Receive information and provide input on achieving the Council priority of converting City fleet vehicles to a
Green Fleet by the year 2030.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
(continue next page)
1 of 6

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 6

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CLOSED SESSION
File ID: 21-5032
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
August 16, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers' Compensation
RECOMMENDATION:
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9 Name of Case: Michael Quenneville
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Yuliya Shukhat, Senior Risk Management Analyst
yshukhat@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7263
3 of 6

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4932
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 16, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Green Fleet Vehicles – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information and provide input on achieving the Council priority of converting City fleet vehicles to a Green Fleet by 
the year 2030.
BACKGROUND:
Council established a priority for Public Works to evaluate the conversion to a Green Fleet by 2030.  As part of the 
evaluation performed to date, staff has reviewed the current fleet composition and usage, estimated the costs to operate 
and maintain the City’s Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) facility, identified potential regulatory changes that will affect 
future purchases of fleet vehicles, and conducted a preliminary analysis of potential conversion to zero emission vehicle 
(ZEV) alternatives.  Staff is seeking Council’s input on potential alternatives for achieving the Green Fleet priority.
Compressed Natural Gas Treatment Plant
Built in 2016, the City currently operates and maintains a CNG facility that treats biogas generated by the wastewater 
treatment plant (WWTP) to fuel a portion of the City’s vehicles. The CNG facility cost approximately $6.1 million to design 
and construct and received approximately $2.5 million in grant funding from the California Energy Commission.  At the 
time of construction, use of CNG in City vehicles and the potential sale of CNG to third parties was considered very viable. 
While the City had previously retained a third-party seller and met with companies and agencies that manage large 
commercial vehicle fleets regarding the potential purchase of the City’s excess CNG, there have been no potential buyers 
to date. 
Existing City Fleet
The City currently has a total fleet of 189 vehicles valued at approximately $10 million, of which 68 vehicles were originally 
designated for conversion to CNG fuel as they were to be replaced with new vehicles. To date, the City has replaced 
20 petroleum-fueled vehicles with vehicles that utilize CNG fuel. Of the City’s total fleet, currently 49 vehicles valued at 
approximately $2.3 million are past due for replacement.  An additional 77 vehicles valued at approximately $4.1 million 
are due for replacement by fiscal year 2026, 53 vehicles valued at approximately $2.9 million are due for replacement 
between 2026 and 2030, and another 21 vehicles valued at approximately $840,000 are due for replacement after 2030.  
Based on recent purchases, CNG vehicles cost approximately 15-20% more than conventionally fueled vehicles.  
Additionally, the procurement timeframe for CNG vehicles is approximately 8-10 months longer than conventionally fueled 
vehicles to allow time for the conversion to CNG fuel.  
Accordingly, the City will be replacing 126 vehicles within the next five years and near-term investments in appropriate 
technologies will be necessary to meet the Council’s Green Fleet priority.
4 of 6

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Anticipated Regulatory Changes
The California Governor issued Executive Order N-79-20 that directed the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to assess 
possible regulatory requirements to ensure greater inclusion of ZEVs in public and private light- and heavy-duty vehicle 
fleets.  CARB’s Advanced Clean Truck regulation was approved in 2020 and sets to limit manufacturers’ sales of non- ZEVs, 
establish reporting requirements for large fleets, and add anti-idling regulations. CARB is also developing Advanced Clean 
Fleet regulations for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles with a goal of achieving zero-emission public fleets by 2035 to the 
extent feasible.  According to CARB’s proposed regulations, CNG vehicles would not qualify toward compliance with the 
proposed ZEV fleet requirements.
Operation, Maintenance, and Vehicle Fueling 
Ongoing annual maintenance costs for the CNG plant are approximately $100,000 at current usage and would increase to 
$200,000 at the originally planned fleet size of 68 CNG vehicles. Staff estimates the 10-year recurring costs for 
replacement of worn equipment and replacement of treatment media to be approximately $650,000. Additionally, fueling 
City vehicles at the CNG plant, which is located at the WWTP, instead of at the Corporation Yard adds approximately ½ 
hour of time per vehicle fueling event.  The extra time associated with fueling at the CNG plant equates to an estimated 
loss in productivity of almost two full-time equivalents at the planned total of 68 CNG vehicles.  When factoring operation 
and maintenance costs, extra labor costs for fueling, adjusting for avoided cost of purchasing fuel, and adjusting for other 
financial incentives obtained from the use of renewable fuel, the present worth of costs to operate and maintain the CNG 
plant is estimated at approximately $1.5 million over the 10-year operating life of a typical vehicle.
To reduce the loss of productivity associated with the fueling of CNG vehicles at the WWTP, staff evaluated the possibility 
of portable fueling trailers at the Corporation Yard.  It is estimated that $1 million would be required for the purchase, 
installation, and permitting of two portable fueling trailers that can be filled at the CNG plant and transferred to the 
Corporation Yard for use.  The estimated cost for portable fueling excludes the ongoing labor cost to fill and transfer the 
portable fueling trailers, maintenance cost of the portable fueling trailers, regulatory compliance costs for permit 
maintenance, and cost of land within the Corporation Yard that would be repurposed for fueling CNG vehicles.
Potential Conversion to Fossil-Fuel-Free Fuels
Not all vehicles, particularly very large vehicles, will have viable ZEV alternatives available in the near future.  Additionally, 
the options for zero emission equipment (e.g., backhoes) are not expected to increase substantially in the foreseeable 
future.  However, the use of fossil-fuel-free (F3) liquid fuels that use renewable biomass as their fuel source has increased 
and could be considered for all City vehicles and equipment when commercially available.  Currently, a number of cities, 
including Fremont and Berkeley, have transitioned to renewable diesel for use in their fleet without the need to replace 
fueling infrastructure or modify vehicle engines.  Additionally, renewable diesel can be manufactured such that it is 
chemically identical to fossil fuel diesel, significantly reduces overall carbon emissions compared to fossil fuel diesel, and 
does not result in performance issues known to be caused by some biodiesels or diesel blends.  The use of F3 liquid fuels 
could be a component of the City’s more sustainable green fleet efforts particularly for large vehicles and equipment that 
may not have viable ZEV alternatives.  Additionally, F3 liquid fuels could be used as part of a transition to ZEVs by allowing 
continued use of renewable fuels pending commercial availability of ZEVs or to allow time for construction of charging 
infrastructure.
Green Fleet by 2030 
Council established a priority for Public Works to evaluate the conversion to a “Green Fleet” by 2030. Given the 
approximately $6.4 million in vehicles that will be due for replacement within the next five years, staff is seeking feedback 
from Council on overall direction to achieve this priority.  Given the costs associated with the CNG plant, costs associated 
with procuring and utilizing CNG vehicles, the anticipated effects of existing and proposed CARB regulations, the 
availability of other renewable fuels, and the near-term investment in new vehicles, staff believes it may be an opportune 
time reconsider the operation of the CNG plant and begin a conversion to ZEVs for the City’s fleet.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the budget associated with this agenda report. 
5 of 6

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this study session is not a project subject to CEQA because the 
City Council is providing direction to staff and is not taking action at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Eric Bell, Fleet and Facilities Maintenance Manager
ebell@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7328
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
6 of 6