source: packet.pdf
sha256: c3db55be51410bb1c4f7c402a5c7152b67bd133af01712a64f1e676a455e9d50
pages: 18
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Joint Session: Planning
Commission/Sustainability &
Infrastructure Special Meeting
August 22, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
PLANNING COMMISSION
John Ebneter, Chair
Seema Patel, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Martin Wiggins
Margaret Williams
SUSTAINABILITY & INFRASTRUCTURE
Susan Rowinski, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Clifford Robinson
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 22, 2023 
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 878 8295 3671      Passcode: 206715
Clifford Robbins of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Committee will participate in this meeting via
teleconference from:
12441B Northwoods
Truckee, CA 96161
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
OneShoreline Planning Policy Guidance – Informational Workshop
Receive an update from the San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise Resiliency District (One Shoreline)
relating to its newly-released Planning Policy Guidance to address anticipated increases in flooding, sea level rise,
and shallow groundwater rise due to climate change.
CEQA: In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this item is not subject to CEQA, because it is an
informational study session item that the Planning Commission is not taking action on at this time.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
OneShoreline Planning 
Policy Guidance
Manira Sandhir
Planning Manager/ Community 
Development
Matt Fabry
Deputy Director/ Public Works
3 of 18

--- page 4 ---
Background
• 4.5 Miles of Bay Shoreline
• General Plan Update Map for 
projected Sea Level Rise
• 2050 + 100 Year Storm*
• Regional Collaborative Efforts
* does not account for levee systems
4 of 18

--- page 5 ---
August 22, 2023
San Mateo Planning and S&I Commissions 
Joint Study Session
San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise Resiliency District
Len Materman, CEO
Makena Wong, Project Manager
info@OneShoreline.org
5 of 18

--- page 6 ---
Climate change is a transformative 
challenge the County and cities 
were not well-positioned to 
address individually.
August 2022
Scripps Institute
Caltrans
Dec. 2020
Stanford
July 2021
A long-standing Flood 
Control District collected 
taxes and worked in 10% 
of the county and Bay 
shoreline and along none 
of the Pacific coastline
State legislation established 
OneShoreline as a special district 
on January 1, 2020. It is the first 
independent government agency 
in CA to plan and build regional 
resilience related to flooding, SLR, 
coastal erosion, stormwater, and 
water supply; and support 
recreation and the environment.
MTC/ABAG & BCDC
July 2023
6 of 18

--- page 7 ---
PLANNING:  Work with cities on general plans, 
specific plans, and zoning ordinances – and with 
developers – to build site-specific resilience that 
contributes to and aligns with regional resilience
Priorities
PROJECTS:  Build multi-jurisdictional climate 
resilience complemented by future conditions-
inspired land use policies and developments 
One Shoreline, Brisbane, and Caltrans 
Baylands/Hwy 101
OneShoreline’s 
Bay Program
To align and connect           
the protection and 
enhancement of the entire 
53 miles of San Mateo 
County’s shoreline
STORMS:  Reduce the impacts of today’s climate-
driven atmospheric rivers
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE EFFORT:  Develop 
ongoing funding streams, including from private 
sector beneficiaries, and have all sectors of 
society see climate resilience as their issue
Amber Manfree, KneeDeep Times
7 of 18

--- page 8 ---
Long-term resilience to future conditions requires that:
1. Local leaders champion long-term resilience
2. Developments are leveraged by land use plans and integrated into a regional protection 
and enhancement project
OneShoreline project with Millbrae & Burlingame, 
and the Burlingame Zoning Ordinance
• Project objective to protect properties in the yellow 
areas by keeping red lined waterways & shorelines 
from overtopping when the Bay water level equals 
FEMA BFE + 6 feet. Project guides shoreline 
protection infrastructure.
• In 2022, Burlingame became one of the first Bay Area 
cities to incorporate SLR into its zoning ordinance.     
Key development requirements: shoreline protection 
infrastructure, buffer zone, development elevations, 
stormwater capture/drainage, and groundwater. 
Projects take a holistic 
approach to geography, 
threats, and objectives
8 of 18

--- page 9 ---
A standardized, evolving resource for jurisdictions to account for 
climate-driven future conditions in general plans, specific plans, 
and zoning ordinances, and review of new private developments.  
What it isn’t
•Mandatory regulations
•Static
•Reference document only
•Focused on existing or 
public development
What it is
•Voluntary guidance
•Evolving
•Actionable template
What is the Planning Policy Guidance?
•Focused on new/ 
substantial private 
development
Learn more at: OneShoreline.org/Planning-Guidance
9 of 18

--- page 10 ---
• Applicability – exemptions for low-density housing
• Creek and Bay Buffer Zones
• Shoreline Protection
• Elevating Development
• Stormwater Drainage
• Shallow Groundwater Rise
• Exceptions
How to use the Planning Guidance Policy and 
introduction of the Bay Protection Standard
Implementation: OneShoreline’s proposed role in 
technical assistance and local development review
Template language for General/Specific Plans
Template language for Zoning Ordinances: 
Template language for approvals of 
specific development projects
10 of 18

--- page 11 ---
The Road to the Planning Policy Guidance
Boston, Broward Co, 
Kauai, Norfolk, NYC,        
Rhode Island
2021
2022 & early 2023
OneShoreline.org/planning-guidance
11 of 18

--- page 12 ---
3. OneShoreline’s Bay Protection Standard
4. Alternatives to further 
development in historic Baylands 
areas, including “managed retreat” 
beyond the buffer zone
5. A zoning overlay district focused on 
stormwater detention in upper 
watershed areas to reduce flooding 
downstream
Five Emerging Areas and Key Issues raised regarding the Planning Policy Guidance
1. Stormwater Drainage
2. Shallow Groundwater Rise
12 of 18

--- page 13 ---
• Local jurisdictions review Planning Policy Guidance
• Study local extents of SLR and Groundwater Rise Overlay Districts to understand context
• Conduct community outreach
• Integrate template policies into general plans, and zoning text amendments into zoning 
ordinances, as a draft to be considered by decision-making bodies
• Receive feedback from local decision-making bodies: City Council, County Board of 
Supervisors, Planning Commissions, etc.
• Adopt local resilience policies and regulations as a stand-alone initiative, or in concert 
with planned general plan and zoning code updates if those updates are imminent 
What should implementation look like?
13 of 18

--- page 14 ---
OneShoreline can provide cities and the County with technical assistance, including:
OneShoreline’s Recommended Role in Technical Assistance and Local Development Review
• presenting to governing bodies and commissions
As with all aspects of the Planning Policy Guidance, 
including OneShoreline in planning processes and 
project review is voluntary.
• providing data regarding vulnerabilities and vulnerable areas
• reviewing and providing comments on long-range 
planning initiatives, capital projects, and proposals 
for private projects in the entitlement process
14 of 18

--- page 15 ---
info@OneShoreline.org
Thank you
OneShoreline.org
15 of 18

--- page 16 ---
City Actions and Next Steps
Current Efforts
• Draft General Plan Policies
• Landfill Long-Term Flood Protection 
Plan
• Infrastructure Improvements
• North Central/Shoreview Levee 
Project
• Coyote/Poplar Pump Station 
Improvements
• Wastewater Treatment Plant
• Community Flood and Storm 
Protection Initiative
Next Steps
• Continue to collaborate with 
OneShoreline
• Identify Funding 
Opportunities/Additional 
Infrastructure Improvements
• Adopt and Implement the Adaptation 
Plan
16 of 18

--- page 17 ---
Adaptation Planning

2024 Adaptation Plan

+ Assessment of sea level rise impacts to City

+ Evaluation of vulnerability, exposure, and risk

* Developmentof adaptation strategies based
on existing levee protection infrastructure

+ Future monitoring recommendations

« Funding mechanism recommendations

CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 18 ---
Questions and Comments
• OneShoreline
• Len Materman
• Makena Wong
• Colin Martorana
• City Staff (Public Works)
• Brad Underwood
• Matt Fabry
• Jimmy Vo
• City Staff (Community Development)
• Zachary Dahl
• Manira Sandhir
18 of 18