Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Foster City CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Aug 16 2026

Overview

Foster City CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Foster City CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Foster City CA PD utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals.

We are making the applicable policy and the following agency usage information available in furtherance of our commitment to accountability and transparency.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

28

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

366,788

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

202

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,296

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Foster City CA PD data.

Belmont CA PD
Burlingame CA PD
Colma CA PD
Daly City CA PD
East Palo Alto CA PD
Hillsborough CA PD
Menlo Park CA PD
Pacifica CA PD
Redwood City CA PD
San Bruno CA PD
San Mateo CA PD
San Mateo County CA SO
South San Francisco CA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Foster City CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid case number and is stored indefinitely. This data is regularly audited bi-annually.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Additional Info



ALPR Policy Link: https://www.fostercity.org/sites/default/files/fileattachments/police/page/26711/2021_alpr_policy.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety