Hutto City Council votes to end use of Flock Safety license plate readers | Pflugerville - Hutto | Community Impact Skip to main content Map Newsletters Archive Advertise Requester Become a Requester Search Sign In Menu Pflugerville - Hutto Austin Bryan - College Station Dallas - Fort Worth Houston San Antonio Sections Business Education Government Dining Healthcare Real Estate Transportation Company About Us Advertise With Us Careers Newsletters Local · Trusted · Free The local news you want, every day, in your inbox for free. The Morning Impact — your neighborhood's most important stories, delivered every morning. Subscribe for free Hyperlocal news for Texas communities since 2005. About Contact Become an InCIder Careers Blog Storytelling Advertise (opens in new tab) Privacy Policy Consumer Rights DSR Terms of Service Cookie Preferences © 2026 Community Impact Newspaper. All rights reserved. Home Austin Pflugerville - Hutto Government Hutto City Council votes to end use of Flock Safety license plate readers Government Pflugerville - Hutto Hutto City Council votes to end use of Flock Safety license plate readers Explore Pflugerville - Hutto on the Impact Map stories, offers and more Jillian Nachtigal 1 min read Published September 18, 2026 at 3:01 p.m. CT Hutto City Council voted unanimously to end the use of Flock Safety cameras on Sept. 18. ( Amanda Cutshall/Community Impact ) Hutto City Council decided to discontinue the police department’s use of 10 Flock Safety automated license plate reader cameras during a Sept. 18 meeting. What happened Hutto Police Chief Jeffrey Yarbrough said the city turned off and took down the cameras ahead of the vote. According to the city, the Hutto Police Department identified concerns that partner agencies accessing information from the system are not bound by HPD's own policies governing that data. Developments in artificial intelligence technology also raised questions, city staff said. What they’re saying Yarbrough said the department weighed whether it would be a dealbreaker to not have the cameras, and whether they provided a level of investigatory value to the point that the department could not function without them. However, he said that was not the case. “Flock is a valuable tool and we value the opportunity to use that tool,” Yarbrough told Community Impact . “We value the successes that we've had with that platform, but we also value the concerns that the public has and some of the concerns that we've seen as a department.” Without information provided by Flock cameras, Yarbrough said investigators will rely on the department's other resources and methods to continue solving cases and protecting the community. “We're going to continue to rely on our law enforcement partners,” Yarbrough said. “The difference is, it may make the investigatory efforts a bit more cumbersome.” The background Flock ALPRs capture still images of vehicles on public roads and use artificial intelligence to log license plates and vehicle details. Over the past few weeks, the city of Pflugerville voted not to renew its Flock contract, Bastrop ended its Flock contract, Liberty Hill removed its Flock cameras and Leander discontinued Flock services. More Government news from Pflugerville - Hutto Government Georgetown Williamson County seeks applications for Precinct 1 constable 21h ago Government Central Austin Central Health approves $54M for mental healthcare 3d ago Government Pflugerville - Hutto Pflugerville gives initial approval for West Pecan cafe space in City Hall September 10, 2026 More from Pflugerville - Hutto Business Pflugerville - Hutto Doll House Beauty Lounge now open in Hutto 18h ago Business Georgetown Business news, wave pool, school closures: 6 trending Austin-area stories 20h ago Business Round Rock Polished Smiles of Round Rock now serving patients 21h ago More from Austin Business Bastrop - Cedar Creek Dick’s Sporting Goods teased for Bastrop 15h ago Development Lake Travis - Westlake Four Points-area residents discuss future of former 3M campus 16h ago Education Georgetown Georgetown ISD leaders discuss scenarios to provide pay raises if Proposition A fails 17h ago Austin Bastrop - Cedar Creek Cedar Park Central Austin East Austin Georgetown Lake Travis - Westlake + more communities Dallas - Fort Worth Allen Denton Frisco Grapevine - Colleyville - Southlake Keller - Roanoke - Northeast Fort Worth McKinney + more communities Houston Bay Area Bellaire - Meyerland - West University Conroe - Montgomery Cy-Fair - Jersey Village Cypress Heights - River Oaks - Montrose + more communities Bryan - College Station San Antonio Pflugerville - Hutto Business Education Government Dining Healthcare Real Estate Transportation