source: packet.pdf
sha256: 633bda311f500c01da8748f8d1d66192c3226141550bb204d4a07b8fa16a9ddb
pages: 152
ocr_pages: 19
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
August 24, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 24, 2021
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 817 0236 7960 Passcode: 402621
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meeting of June 22, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Preparation of Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2019-016)
Receive an informational report on Objective Design Standards and provide staff with feedback and direction.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the

--- page 2 ---
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
3.
Recommendation – Draft Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance
Review an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior
Accessory Dwelling Unit” in accordance with current state law and make a recommendation to the City Council.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5056
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 24, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meeting of June 22, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Minutes 06.22.21
STAFF CONTACT
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7213

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 1
COMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Seema Patel
Margaret Williams
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, June 22, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Roll Call
Remote: Chair Mallory, Vice Chair Maldonado, Commissioners: Etheridge, Williams, Patel
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Regular meetings of April 27, 2021 and May 11, 2021. 
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:     Mallory, Maldonado, Etheridge, Patel, Williams, 
Noes:     None
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers. 
PUBLIC HEARING 
2.
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 SPAR Modification (PA-2020-053) 
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner presented an overview of the project with a recommendation of a resolution to 
approve a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification and Tentative Map for Bay Meadows Phase II 
Mixed-Use (MU) Blocks 2 and 3, and adopt an Addendum to the certified Final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) 
to assess the environmental impacts of the project. The developer presentation was led by Janice Thatcher with 
Bay Meadows who provided a recap of the Bay Meadows development including modifications to the architectural 
design, retail space square footage, increased childcare, and noted it was consistent with approved minimum / 
maximum limits for Bay Meadows. Dwight Long with Perkins & Will, Architect, provided an overview of the 
architectural changes to the office building.
The Commissioners asked questions of staff which included clarification of the ratio of Commercial vs. residential 
units, intent of childcare in development, solar requirements, Water Efficiency Landscape Requirements (WELR), 
Climate Action Plan (CAP) requirements, LEED (Lead in Energy and Environmental Design) certification, exceptions 
to “build to” standards, leasing data on commercial spaces, and reduction of residential and increase in 
commercial based on market conditions.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 2
 
Public Comment – Larisa Ocanada, SAMCEDA; Jonathan Schafman; Richard Hedges; AJ Schrader, Retail West; 
Cheryl Angeles, San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce; Barry Bradon, Fieldwork Brewing; and James Ruigomez, 
San Mateo Building Construction Trade Council; all stated support of this project and changes made to uses 
including the potential for childcare to be offered as part of the project. Jordan Grimes and Raayan Motashimi, 
and Dr. Brazie’r made comments not in support of the project siting concerns about jobs/housing imbalance and 
the increase of office space and concerns that the neighboring properties and community are being impacted and 
not considered. 
The Commission asked questions of staff and discussion ensued. Some commissioners expressed concerns with 
land uses; the decrease in residential housing and increase in office usage; concern with the jobs to housing ratio; 
and the possible contribution to the housing crisis due to incremental decreases in housing. The commissioners 
were in support of the possibility of childcare in the development; the proposed design and architectural changes; 
and the addition of more open space. Most commissioners were happy with the developer’s ability to address 
comments from past study sessions and for staying within the guidelines of the Development Agreement (DA). 
Clarification was provided by Gabrielle Whelan, Assistant City Attorney, on the Site Plan and Architectural Review 
and addendum EIR that was considered by the commission. Ben Saltsman, legal representative of developer 
Wilson Meany clarified that the DA in place since 2005 is within the guidelines of this SPAR regarding trip 
reduction and he indicated that mitigation of traffic data will continue to be collected to assure trip reduction. 
Acting Planning Manager Julia Klein clarified questions regarding the General Plan in place at the time of the DA 
agreement noting it is not the same as the General Plan guidelines currently in place and therefore current 
guidelines are not applicable to this project Commissioners Ebneter and Patel expressed concern that the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) is not adequately met, due to changes in the project and discussed 
the possibility of denying the resolution in order to revisit CEQA at a later date. 
 
Motion to adopt a resolution to approve Site Plan and Architectural Review Modifications and Tentative Map for 
Bay Meadows Phase II Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3, and adopt an Addendum to the certified Final Environmental 
Impact Report to assess the environmental impacts of the project. Motion passes (3-2)
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Williams
Ayes:    Mallory, Maldonado, Williams
Noes:     Ebneter, Patel
STUDY SESSION 
3.
Saratoga Dr. and Yates Way Office Medical Building Pre-Application (PA-2020-078)
Linda Ly, Associate Planner presented an overview of the project and provided a review of the 
proposed broader site and building design. Discussion items included Building Design and Site Plan Design.
The applicant represented by Ben Rosenfield & Michael Williams of PNB, Pacific Builders & Architects Inc., 
presented a proposed project design in detail including proposed uses including a medical and business office 
and Ambulatory Surgery Center (ASC).
The Commissioners asked questions of staff regarding the proposed use of the building; the proposed bike 
Lane; widening of pedestrian walkway connecting the neighboring properties; parking; and placement of 
specific architectural features including a canopy for the entrance.

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 3
Public Comment - Margaret Strand stated concerns about the number of public parking spaces and noted 
they should be decreased to allow for leveraging public transportation. Kevin C stated safety issue concerns 
regarding the two driveways, and for bike and pedestrian users and requested consideration for better 
pedestrian access (walkway) to and from cars in the parking lot. 
Commissioners provided direction noting they liked the overall architectural design, the design entrance 
signage and canopy; parking with defined path and possible refinement of materials used on screening. 
Commissioners expressed concerns over pedestrian/bike safety and look forward to more refinement of the 
parking design. Commissioners also considered the number of parking spaces and requested review 
and possible reduction of number of parking spaces if the intended use changes from medical office to 
administrative medical office. The Commissioners liked the Site plan and had no other comments.
NEW BUSINESS
4.
Election of Officers
Election of Chair and Vice-Chair, annual rotation. 
Nomination of Ramiro Maldonado as Chair
Moved: 
Chair Mallory, Seconded: Ebneter
Ayes: 
Chair Mallory, Ebneter, Patel, Williams
Noes: 
None
Abstain: 
Maldonado
Motion passes (4-0-1)
Nomination of Margaret Williams as Vice-Chair
Moved: 
Ebneter, Seconded: Maldonado
Ayes: 
Chair Mallory, Ebneter, Patel, Maldonado
Noes: 
None
Abstain: 
Williams
Motion passes (4-0-1)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Acting Planning Manager, Julia Klein, announced possible meeting cancellations, upcoming agenda items, and 
community workshops. Staff requested that Planning Commissioners review calendar for next three months 
to ensure a quorum for future meetings. Assistant City Attorney Gabrielle Whelan responded to a commissioner’s 
inquiry regarding attendance at workshops and possible Brown Act conflict if a quorum attends.  She noted a 
remedy is to notice the workshop so a quorum can attend.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:58 pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Ellen Mallory, Commission Chair                                            Mary Way, Planning Admin

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4967
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 24, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Preparation of Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2019-016)
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on Objective Design Standards and provide staff with feedback and direction.
BACKGROUND:
State Housing Legislation
In 2017, the Governor signed a 15-bill housing package aimed at addressing the state’s housing shortage and high housing 
costs. Included in the package was Senate Bill 35 Streamlined Approval Process (SB 35), which was adopted to provide for a 
streamlined, ministerial approval process for multi-family residential development projects. To increase housing 
production by accelerating through the development review process, eligible projects that opt into the streamlined 
approval process would only be required to comply with objective zoning and design review standards. 
The legislation defines “objective standards” as “standards that involve no personal or subjective judgment by a public 
official and are uniformly verifiable by reference to an external and uniform benchmark or criterion available and 
knowable by both the development applicant or proponent and the public official before submittal.” This is a significantly 
different practice from the City’s typical process of using subjective design guidelines to review and approve development 
projects.
Understanding that San Mateo has relied on the Planning Commission’s discretion to review large multi-family and mixed-
use residential projects and determine whether they conform to design guidelines and necessary findings, the City 
retained a consultant to help create new objective design standards and process for projects that opt into the streamlined 
approval process. Furthermore, effective until at least January 1, 2025, Senate Bill 330 Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (SB 330) 
prohibits jurisdictions from imposing subjective design standards. By creating new objective design standards for multi-
family projects, this can help ensure that such projects would still achieve a high quality, attractive architectural design 
while providing for a streamlined review process to increase housing in compliance with state law. Additional information 
about guiding legislation can be found in Attachment 1, Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards.
SB 2 Planning Grant
The work to develop objective design standards is being funded by a grant from the State’s SB 2 Planning Grants Program, 
which was legislation included in the 2017 housing package to increase housing.  At its July 15, 2019 meeting, the City 
Council authorized use of the grant funds to develop objective design standards for multi-family residential projects.  On 
March 5, 2020, City staff engaged MIG, Inc., an urban planning and architectural design firm, as consultants to provide 
technical and architectural design support to complete the project.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Applicability
The objective design standards for multi-family projects would apply in zoning districts throughout the city that allow for 
multi-family residential projects, which include duplexes and larger. In addition, mixed-use developments, where at least 
two-thirds of the building’s square footage is residential and the development is defined as a housing project per the 
Housing Accountability Act, would be eligible. Applicable zoning districts include multiple-family zoning districts (R2, R3, 
R4, R5, and R5-D); commercial districts (C1, C2, C3, C4, CBD) with residential uses; transit-oriented development and 
executive park districts (TOD and E1), and zoning districts with residential or downtown overlay. Please see Attachment 2, 
Applicability Map, for a map of applicable zoning districts. 
However, various sites would not be eligible to use objective design standards for multi-family projects. For example, 
historical buildings, commercial-only buildings, and single-family residences would not be able to use these objective 
design standards and opt into the streamlined approval process. The City may also require additional eligibility 
requirements.
Review Process
The City has adopted multiple design guidelines for specific building types and neighborhood areas, most of which require 
interpretation and subjective judgment by staff and Planning Commissioners.  Alternatively, objective design standards 
would not require personal or subjective judgment by a public official.  Under objective design standards, the City would 
still review projects to ensure conformance with regulations and zoning requirements, as well as all applicable objective 
design standards prior to approval.  However, requiring that a project comply with design guidelines or any subjective 
design review requirements would no longer be part of the approval process. 
As currently envisioned, the objective design standards would exist as an option for eligible multi-family projects per State 
law, and the current discretionary design review process would remain in place for all other projects that do not choose to 
conform to the Objective Design Standards. However, the preparation of objective design standards provides the City with 
an opportunity to think about how design review is applied to all non-single-family projects during the development 
review process. 
Below is a table outlining key steps in the two review process options for a large multi-family residential building.
Discretionary Review Process (current)
Streamlined Review Process (new option)
Applicant submits planning application for 
discretionary review process
Applicant submits planning application for 
streamlined review process
City staff reviews project using Multi-Family Design 
guidelines, zoning code, building code, and other 
applicable documents. 
City staff reviews project using Objective Design 
Standards, zoning code, building code, and other 
applicable documents.
A design report from the City’s design consultant is 
required.
A design report is not required.
Applicant revises plans to incorporate design 
comments and demonstrate conformance to code 
requirements. Several resubmittals may be required.
If necessary, applicant revises plans to 
demonstrate conformance to code requirements 
including objective design standards. However, 
resubmittals are not anticipated.
The Planning Commission reviews the project and has 
discretion of whether or not to approve the project. 
City staff or the Planning Commission reviews the 
project and if the project complies with code 
requirements and objective design standards, then 
the project is approved.
Community Workshop
On June 1, 2021, MIG led a virtual workshop to provide information on the new state laws and gather community input on 
various building designs. Approximately 30 members of the public attended the workshop.
The workshop discussed eight key design elements: site design, massing, articulation, materials, transitional design, 
streetscape relationship, open space, and lighting and site security. An interactive discussion on multi-family design was

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
conducted where six various building types were displayed and members of the public shared their input. The building 
types ranged from small duplexes to larger multi-family residences that exemplified boxy designs, pitched roofs, upper 
story step backs, and various materials ranging from glass to wood siding.
Members of the public spoke about appropriate building articulation and materials, the importance of balancing 
competing needs between large windows to provide natural lighting and adequate wall space to accommodate furniture 
particularly for small multi-family units, and more. The visuals and public comments can be found in the mural, included as 
Attachment 3, Workshop Mural. In addition, questions during the workshop and answers provided by MIG or city staff can 
be found in Attachment 4, Workshop Questions and Answers.
DISCUSSION:
To help guide the creation of objective design standards to provide high-quality, attractive multi-family residential 
development, staff is requesting feedback from the Planning Commission on the following questions:
1)
What contributes to the character of San Mateo’s neighborhoods?
The character of a neighborhood is made up of various architectural elements. For example, the list may include 
but is not limited to the collective appearance of multiple individual buildings’ shapes, roof style, architectural 
style, arrangement of doors and windows, and more. Staff would like to receive input on what elements 
contribute to the character of San Mateo’s neighborhoods.
2)
Which overarching principles are most important and relevant to San Mateo’s neighborhoods and good design 
principles?
At the June 1, 2021 workshop, six primary design considerations were presented to the public: site design, 
massing, articulation, materials, transitional design, and streetscape relationship. In addition, two other design 
considerations were also presented to the public: open space as well as lighting and site security. Staff would like 
to receive input on which overarching principles are most important and relevant to achieving good design in San 
Mateo.
3)
Should the scope of the objective design standards be expanded to include a larger range of projects and/or 
replace the City’s current discretionary design guidelines?
Currently, multi-family projects are reviewed under various design guidelines as applicable, such as the Duplex 
Design Guidelines, Multi-Family Design Guidelines, and/or Small Lot Multi-Family Design Guidelines, as well as any 
applicable specific plan, master plan, or area plan. In addition, projects must demonstrate conformance to 
applicable requirements within the municipal code, General Plan, Pedestrian Master Plan, Bicycle Master Plan, and 
any relevant specific plan, master plan, or area plan.
Staff is seeking direction whether the language and review process of objective design standards should replace 
some or all existing design guidelines. For example, the City’s Multi-Family Design Guidelines currently has an 
objective which states, “Front doors and porches should have a strong appearance from the street.” However, this 
guideline does not provide a quantified standard for how to define “strong appearance”, so this subjective 
guideline may be replaced with objective design standards such as “The entryway shall be recessed at least 2 feet 
from the building façade to create a porch or landing area, and the entryway shall be raised or sunken at least one 
stair step from the pedestrian pathway.” This would further streamline the review process particularly as the 
objective design standards would serve as the only review option, and may help to promote housing. 
NEXT STEPS:
After gathering input from the general public and the Commission, staff will work with MIG to continue preparing draft 
objective design standards and an alternative streamlined approval process for multi-family residential development. Draft 
objective design standards language will then be presented to the Commission at a subsequent study session to obtain

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
more detailed feedback on the themes and draft language. Once a final draft of the standards has been completed, they 
will be presented to the Commission at a public hearing for a recommendation prior to bringing them to City Council for 
review and adoption. Based on the current project timeline, staff anticipates that the objective design standards will be 
ready for City Council consideration in spring 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The work to develop objective design standards is being funded by a grant from the State’s SB 2 Planning Grants Program.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The preparation and adoption of objective design standards is not subject to review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15060(c)(2) because the action will not result in a direct or 
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment and pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3) 
because there is no possibility the activity in question would have a significant effect on the environment. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1 – Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Attachment 2 – Applicability Map
Attachment 3 – Workshop Mural
Attachment 4 – Workshop Questions and Answers
STAFF CONTACT
Wendy Lao, AICP, Associate Planner
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7219

--- page 11 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
January 2021 
Approaches and Considerations for
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
INTRODUCTION
To address the housing shortage, recent State legislation, 
including Senate Bill (SB) 35 and SB 330, requires projects 
to be reviewed against objective standards. Objective 
standards include a broad set of standards used by an 
agency to regulate development, including “objective 
zoning standards,” “objective subdivision standards,” and 
“objective design review standards.” Objective standards 
are the only basis a local agency may use to deny or 
reduce the density of certain eligible projects. 
This toolkit focuses on how to regulate design objectively 
and presents approaches and considerations for 
adopting objective design standards. There is no one-
size-fits-all approach to objective design standards, 
and each community should consider different options 
for implementing such standards. Although there are a 
range of approaches, it is important to balance flexibility 
and predictability while minimizing constraints on the 
development of new housing.
Provided as Part of HCD’s  
SB 2 Technical Assistance Program
The Building Homes and Jobs Act (SB 2, 2017) 
provides funding and technical assistance to all local 
governments in California to help cities and counties 
prepare, adopt, and implement plans and process 
improvements that streamline housing approvals 
and accelerate housing production. The California 
Department of Housing and Community Development 
(HCD), in coordination with the Governor’s Office of 
Planning and Research (OPR), has developed this 
toolkit as part of a technical assistance program to 
accelerate housing production and streamline the 
approvals of housing.
SB 2 Planning Grants Technical Assistance 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/community- 
development/planning-grants-ta.shtml
WHAT ARE OBJECTIVE  
DESIGN STANDARDS?
Objective design standards are intended to make the 
requirements that apply to certain eligible residential 
projects more predictable and easier to interpret for all 
stakeholders, including decision makers, staff, applicants, 
and members of the public. The purpose of objective 
design standards is for applicants to know beforehand 
what requirements apply to a proposed development and 
for the applicant to be able to design a project that meets 
those requirements before submittal. Objective design 
standards are defined in Government Code Sections 
65913.4 and 66300(a)(7) as standards that:
involve no personal or subjective judgment by 
a public official and are uniformly verifiable by 
reference to an external and uniform benchmark 
or criterion available and knowable by both the 
development applicant or proponent and the public 
official before submittal.
Objective design standards may include portions of 
general plans, specific plans, zoning codes, overlay zones, 
subdivision requirements, and landscaping and other land 
development regulations.
  Contents  
Introduction.....................................................................................1
What are Objective Design Standards?..................................1
Overview of Guiding Legislation .............................................2
How do you Measure Design Objectively?...........................3
How is a Design Guideline  
Different from a Design Standard?..........................................4
A Variety of Approaches.............................................................5
Best Practices.................................................................................8
Examples.........................................................................................11
Options for Implementing  
Objective Design Standards....................................................14
Essential Components............................................................... 15
Key Design Topics....................................................................... 16
Other Considerations................................................................ 19

--- page 12 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
2
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
OVERVIEW OF GUIDING LEGISLATION 
Affordable Housing Streamlined Approval 
Process (SB 35, 2017)
SB 35 creates an opt-in program for developers that 
allows a streamlined ministerial approval process for 
developments in localities that have not yet made sufficient 
progress toward meeting their regional housing need 
allocation (RHNA). Eligible developments must include a 
specified level of affordability; be on an infill site; comply 
with existing residential and mixed-use general plan or 
zoning provisions; and comply with other requirements 
such as, locational and demolition restrictions. The 
streamlined, ministerial entitlement process created by SB 
35 relies on objective design standards.
Housing Crisis Act (SB 330, 2019)
SB 330 allows a housing developer to submit a “preliminary 
application” to a local agency for a housing development 
project. Submittal of a preliminary application allows a 
developer to provide a specific subset of information on the 
proposed housing development before providing the full 
amount of information required by the local government 
for a housing development application. Upon submittal 
of a preliminary application and payment of the permit 
processing fee, a housing developer is allowed to “freeze” 
the applicable fees and development standards that 
apply to a project while the rest of the material necessary 
for a full application submittal is assembled. After an 
application is deemed complete, local agencies cannot 
“disapprove” an eligible housing development project 
or condition its approval at a “lower density,” as defined 
in Government Code Section 65589.5(g), if the project is 
consistent with objective standards. SB 330 also places 
additional limitations on an “affected” agency’s ability to 
limit development, and requires HCD to develop a list of 
cities (“affected cities”) and census designated places (CDPs) 
within the unincorporated county (“affected counties”) that 
are prohibited from taking certain zoning-related actions, 
including, among other things:
	
►
Downzoning or actions resulting in lesser 
intensification
	
►
Imposing a moratorium on development
	
►
Imposing design standards that are not objective
The law also requires jurisdiction-wide housing replacement 
when housing affordable to lower-income residents is 
demolished. Most of these provisions sunset on January 1, 
2025, unless extended by the legislature and governor.
Streamlined Ministerial Approval Process 
Guidelines prepared by HCD are available at: 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/policy-research/docs/sb-35- 
guidelines-final.pdf
SB 35 Statewide Determination Summary
A summary of which jurisdictions are subject to 
the streamlined ministerial approval process (SB 35 
streamlining) is available on HCD’s website (Statutory 
Determinations for Limiting Jurisdictions’ Abilities to 
Restrict Development):  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/community-development/ 
accountability-enforcement/ 
statutory-determinations.shtml
Preliminary Application for Development
SB 330 requires HCD to develop a standardized form 
that applicants for housing development projects may 
use for the purpose of satisfying the requirements for 
submittal of a preliminary application if a local agency 
has not developed its own application form. HCD has 
also provided a template that local governments may 
use to develop their own preliminary application form.
•	 Preliminary Application Form  
for use by Developers (PDF)
•	 Preliminary Application Template  
for use by Local Governments (Word)
Designated Jurisdictions Prohibited from Certain 
Zoning-Related Actions
A list of “affected cities” and “affected counties” 
can be found on HCD’s website (Statutory 
Determinations for Limiting Jurisdictions’ 
Abilities to Restrict Development). Visit: 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/community-development/ 
accountability-enforcement/ 
statutory-determinations.shtml

--- page 13 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
3
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
HOW DO YOU MEASURE DESIGN OBJECTIVELY?
Developing objective design standards for sites and 
buildings is challenging. On the one hand, standards 
should provide a predictable outcome for a wide variety 
of contexts and scenarios; on the other hand, standards 
must avoid being restrictive and producing monotonous 
or undesirable development. Furthermore, design may be 
considered subjective, and preferences can vary among 
community groups, places, and time periods, so today’s 
standards will need to adapt to changes in preference, 
evolutions in technology, and changing design solutions.
Objective design standards must 
be measurable and verifiable.
Objectivity requires that a standard can be measured 
and be verifiable (i.e., no “gray area” for interpretation). 
Objective design standards should have a predicable 
input: knowing what the requirements are and how they 
are measured. Objective standards should also result in a 
predicable output: a determination of consistency that can 
be validated. The result should be the same consistency 
determination no matter who is reviewing the project, and 
there should be no dispute between applicants and staff 
as to whether a project is consistent.
Building Section
Plan View
Example graphics illustrating setbacks and allowable 
encroachments.

--- page 14 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
4
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
HOW IS A DESIGN GUIDELINE  
DIFFERENT FROM A DESIGN STANDARD?
Many jurisdictions use design guidelines as a tool to shape the design of sites and buildings. Design guidelines provide 
direction to applicants and staff when reviewing projects but are often vague and open to interpretation, which adds 
uncertainty to the development process. Guidelines and standards are distinguished by their level of enforceability. 
In general, objective standards are requirements (e.g., “shall” or “must”), and guidelines are recommendations (e.g., 
“should” or “may”).
Typical Characteristics of Guidelines Versus Standards
Design Guidelines
Design Standards
Subjective 
Objective 
Recommendations, which may not be enforceable or have 
the “teeth” of regulations
Requirements, which are enforceable as regulations
Open to interpretation, difficult to measure or verify
Measurable and verifiable
Use words such as “should” or “may”
Use language such as “shall,” “must,” or “is required to”
Adopted by resolution
Adopted by ordinance
Examples of Guidelines and Standards
Design Guidelines
Design Standards
Provide articulation to reduce the apparent mass and scale 
of the building and to be sensitive to the neighborhood.
At intervals of at least 100 feet of building length, there 
shall be a plane break along the facade composed of an 
offset of at least 5 feet in depth by 25 feet in length. The 
offset shall extend from grade to the highest story.
Rooftop mechanical equipment should be screened from 
public view by a parapet wall, decorative equipment screen, 
or other architectural treatment.
Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened from 
public view by a parapet wall, decorative equipment screen, 
or other architectural treatment.
Provide ample width and design for universal access along 
pathways and walks.
The paved section of sidewalks shall be at least 8 feet in 
width.

--- page 15 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
5
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
A VARIETY OF APPROACHES
The use of objective design standards does not require 
that everything be quantifiable and presented with a 
numeric value. The following differing approaches can be 
used to craft objective design standards:
	
►
True/False
	
►
Counts and Measurements
	
►
Ratios and Calculations
	
►
Lists 
	
►
Scorecards
	
►
Benchmarks and Performance Measures
These and other approaches can be used to create 
effective objective standards that are measurable and 
verifiable. Descriptions of these basic approaches are 
presented below, along with examples of objective design 
standards that demonstrate use of each approach. Of 
course, it is possible, if not required, to mix and match 
approaches to develop solutions that achieve a balance 
between predictability and flexibility. 
True/False
A true/false standard can be used to evaluate whether 
a proposed development has satisfied a criterion that is 
specified in an objective standard. A true/false standard 
can be useful for criteria that cannot be measured or 
counted.
Example of Objective Design Standards
Street-facing building facades shall include building 
entrances that front the street.
Automobile and pedestrian access points shall not be 
gated or otherwise closed off to the public.
Counts and Measurements
Numeric values, including counts and measurements, 
are a clear and direct way to structure objective design 
standards, especially when a standard is based on a 
minimum value, a maximum value, or an acceptable 
range of values. Counts represent a number of specified 
elements, and measurements represent the size of design 
features. Many zoning and subdivision standards that are 
fundamental to land use and development regulation, 
such as those related to lot size, height, setbacks, and 
stepbacks, may already be built around measurements.
Example of Objective Design Standards
Any development that includes 10 or more units shall 
provide a minimum of 10% of the total number of units as 
three-bedroom dwelling units.
Walls adjacent to streets shall not run in a continuous 
plane for more than 48 feet without incorporating at least 
two of the following design features:
1.	 A minimum 2-foot change in plane for at least 10 
feet;
2.	 A minimum 18-inch raised planter for at least 10 feet;
3.	 A minimum 18-inch change in height for at least 10 
feet;
4.	 Use of pilasters at 48-foot intervals and at changes in 
wall planes and height; or 
5.	 A section of open grillwork a minimum 4 feet in 
height for at least 10 feet.

--- page 16 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
6
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Ratios and Calculations
Ratios and calculations can be used to create standards 
that are linked to the scale of a project. Many common 
planning tools, including density, floor area ratio, parking, 
private and common open space, and landscaping 
requirements, rely on ratios and calculations. Ratios 
and calculations are also well suited for objective 
design standards because they can be used to address 
design features that are directly related to the scale of 
a development. Ratios and calculations often require 
additional standards to clarify how to satisfy the 
requirement of the ratio. For example, if a minimum area 
of 300 square feet of common open space is required 
per unit, a designer may try to make that space 3 feet 
wide and 100 feet long in the setback in front of the 
parking stalls. This technically meets the standard but 
would appear to fall short of the intent of the common 
open space. A design standard that refers not only to 300 
square feet of open space per unit but to a minimum of a 
10-foot width is more likely to result in a usable lawn than 
in perimeter landscaping.
Example of Objective Design Standards
The common open space area shall be at least 300 
square feet or 25 square feet per dwelling unit, whichever 
is greater. Common open space must have a minimum 
width of 10 feet on any side.
For ground-floor commercial uses in mixed-use buildings, 
exterior walls facing a street shall include windows, doors, 
or other openings for at least 75 percent of the building 
wall area.
Lists
Where flexibility is desired, consider including a list of 
options. Lists can be structured by specifying a range 
of acceptable options (“Any of the following…”) or by 
requiring compliance with a minimum (“At least one of 
the following…”) or a maximum (“No more than three of 
the following…”) number of elements. Lists work well with 
design elements like color where a palette of choices may 
be acceptable, including main color, trim, and accent. 
They also work well for variations of a typical architectural 
element.
Example of Objective Design Standards
1.	 All primary entryways shall incorporate at least four 
of the following elements:
a.	 The entryway shall be recessed at least 2 feet from 
the building facade to create a porch or landing 
area. 
b.	 The doorway shall be recessed at least 3 inches 
from the building facade. 
c.	 The entryway shall be designed with an overhead 
projection of at least 6 inches, such as an awning 
or other architectural design features, so as to 
distinguish the front door from the rest of the 
building facade. 
d.	 The entryway shall be clearly marked with a side 
light window panel, adjacent window, or a door 
with a window. 
e.	 The entryway shall be raised or sunken at least 
one stair step from the pedestrian pathway. 
f.	 The landing area shall be enhanced with a unique 
paving material, texture, pattern, or color that is 
differentiated.

--- page 17 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
7
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Scorecards
Scorecards require applicants to select from a menu of 
options. Each option is assigned a point value, and the 
combined point total of the options selected by the 
applicant must meet or exceed a specified target. Each 
requirement must be an objective standard in and of 
itself, and similar types of requirements are often grouped 
together. Scorecards expand on the list approach but 
differ in their ability to provide more specificity and control 
over a larger range of possible options. A scorecard 
can also be used to incentivize development projects to 
provide exceptional design and include features beyond 
the bare minimum, in exchange for additional “bonuses” 
as part of the entitlement.
Example of Objective Design Standards
The required landscape area must provide the type of 
plants necessary to achieve a total of at least 35 points 
per square foot of landscape area according to the table 
shown below.
Plant Type
Plant Container Size
Points
Shrub
1-gallon container
1.0
5-gallon container
2.0
15-gallon container or larger
10.0
Tree
5-gallon container
5.0
15-gallon container
10.0
24-inch box
20.0
36-inch box
50.0
48-inch box or larger
100.0
Benchmarks and Performance Measures
External benchmarks can provide a strong foundation 
for creating objective design standards because they are 
accepted performance measures and are verifiable and 
well documented. In particular, many transportation-
related development regulations are well suited as a 
foundation for objective design standards. Trip generation, 
vehicle miles traveled calculations, parking ratios, and 
minimum design standards for roads and parking are 
often already quantifiable. Similarly, landscape standards 
can be tied to external benchmarks for native species or 
water use.
Example of Objective Design Standards
Development must meet the California Green Building 
Standards Code (CALGreen) by achieving CALGreen Tier 
I or II as adopted by the State of California; Tier II is a 
higher level of performance than Tier I.
The landscaped area of single-family residential, 
multifamily residential, mixed-use, and institutional type 
projects shall be designed with no more than 20% of 
the landscaped area planted in turf or plants that are 
not water-wise plants. Water-wise plants are defined 
as plants that are evaluated as needing “low” (10–30% 
reference evapotranspiration [ETo]) or “very low”(<10% 
ETo) amounts of irrigation water as defined and listed by 
Water Use Classifications of Landscape Species (WUCOLS) 
at http://ucanr.edu/sites/WUCOLS or other sources of 
water-wise plant water use classifications as verified by a 
licensed landscape architect.

--- page 18 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
8
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
BEST PRACTICES
The following best practices demonstrate ways to make objective design standards more effective.
Use Simple, Clear Language
Avoid using “terms of art” and technical terms that are not universally understood. When such terms are used, explain 
how the standard can be measured or verified.
Examples of “Terms of Art” to Avoid
•	 Respond to adjacent residential uses with a sensitive transition in scale and massing.
•	 Design buildings to fit with the context of their surroundings.
•	 Use street trees to delineate a public street.
Group Similar Topics Together
Group similar topics together to highlight that multiple objective design standards are related. Limit each standard to 
one topic or idea to distinguish individual criteria and simplify verification during approval or implementation.
Examples of Standards Grouped under Topical Headers
Residential Frontages
1.	 Multifamily building frontages shall include a terrace or porch.
2.	 Terraces or porches shall measure at least 6 feet in depth and 8 feet in width.
3.	 Terraces or porches shall be raised up 2–3 feet from the adjacent grade.
4.	 Fences or walls defining and/or retaining the front yard shall not exceed 3 feet in height from the adjacent sidewalk.
Parking
1.	 Parking lots shall include shade elements, such as trees, vine-covered trellises, and overhead solar panels.
a.	 Parking lots shall be located at the rear or interior of the block and shall not be located between the sidewalk and 
the building frontage fronting the street.
b.	 Access to parking lots or structures shall be located along side streets or alleys.
2.	 Parking lots shall include shade elements, such as trees, vine-covered trellises, and overhead solar panels.

--- page 19 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
9
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Use Tables or Lists
Use tables or lists with subbullets to organize more complex standards into individual components that can be 
interpreted and verified as unique standards.
Example of Complex Standards Organized as a Table
The required landscape area must provide the type of plants necessary to achieve a total of at least 35 points per square 
foot of landscape area according to the table shown below.
Setback from the Right-of-Way
Minimum
Maximum
0 feet (build-to-line)
5 feet, for up to 40% of the building frontage
6 feet
10 feet, for up to 40% of the building frontage
10 feet
15 feet, for up to 40% of the building frontage
Notes:
1.	 Arcades and colonnades may be used to satisfy the zero-foot build-to-line requirement.
2.	 Building entrances shall open to a public right-of-way or public courtyard.
Example of Complex Standards Organized as a List
Left: Illustrative diagram illustrating the requirements for porches and terraces. 
Center & Right: Photo examples illustrate porches/terraces that meet the standards.
Standards for Porches and Terraces
The main frontage of a multifamily residential building shall have an elevated porch or terrace. This frontage type 
creates a neighborhood character and street-facing orientation while providing a buffer from the sidewalk and space for 
landscaping. The depth of the porch or terrace will allow for a usable outdoor open space large enough to accommodate 
seating for at least two people. 
Requirements:
A.	 Depth: 6-foot minimum
B.	 Area of Porch or Terrace: 48-square-foot minimum
C.	 Finished Level above Sidewalk: 3 foot maximum
D.	 Garden Wall Setback from Right-of-Way: 5-foot minimum

--- page 20 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
10
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Use Graphics to Illustrate Standards
Graphics, photos, axonometric drawings, sections, maps, and concept plan diagrams may be used to illustrate 
application of the standards. Use of annotations and callouts should be used to further clarify the relationship between 
the standards and the graphics.
Varied roof line
Variation in building
massing and form
Ground floor facade
articulated with a 
regular rhythm of 
windows, doors, and 
changes in plane
Front yard landscaping
provides a transition
from private units to
the public street
Shade trees provided
along the street
Upper story stepped
back and articulated
with windows and
shade canopies
Common outdoor spaces 
and private balconies with 
views to the street
Main building entry is
diffentiated and visible
from the street
Example of annotated photograph.
a
b
c
b
a
c
c
c
c
c
b
a
Primary Orientation
Primary Orientation
Primary Orientation
d
d
d
(a) Minimum front setback: 6 feet
(b) Minimum building separation: 6 feet
(c) Minimum setback from all other 
property lines: 3 feet
(d) Minimum drive aisle width: 20 feet
STANDARDS
Example graphic illustrating acceptable forms of single-family cluster 
development.
Example graphic illustrating front yard setback and building 
articulation standards.
rOW
Additional stepbacks 
from ROW may 
be appropriate for 
streetwalls  
in some locations
Floor 3
Façade
articulation 
behind 
Projecting 
or  recessed 
balconies
awning or 
canopy at 
entries 
Opportunity 
for green roof 
or roof terrace 
at stepback
Below grade parking
or parking podium
Floor 2
Floor 1
residential, 
or Live-work
Low or 
transparent 
garden wall or 
fence
Landscape
Zone
10-foot setback

--- page 21 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
11
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
EXAMPLES
The following three examples demonstrate how to integrate different approaches and best practices to craft objective 
design standards that address different topics.
EXAMPLE #1
Block Size and Connectivity
Purpose
Block sizes establish the scale and character of the community and 
can help create connected, pedestrian-oriented neighborhoods.
Example Objective Design Standards
1.	 The maximum length of any side of a block shall measure no 
more than 350 feet.
2.	 When developing an area with a block length that exceeds the 
maximum dimension, the area shall be subdivided with new 
streets such that all resulting blocks are less than the maximum 
allowed size.
3.	 No building shall be greater than 200 feet in length. 
a.	 Blocks greater than 400 feet in length shall be broken with a 
midblock connection, courtyard, or public paseo.
b.	 The minimum width of a midblock connection or paseo 
shall be 20 feet and consist at a minimum of a walking path, 
landscaping, and lighting.
4.	 Blocks and connections shall be designed to improve pedestrian 
linkages.
a.	 Where new streets are proposed, the ends of new streets 
shall align with existing streets or paseos in adjacent blocks.
b.	 Where cul-de-sacs exist, pedestrian linkages are required and 
shall provide direct connections to adjacent streets or public 
areas.
5.	 The following are prohibited:
a.	 Vacation of existing public street right-of-way
b.	 Private development over public streets, courtyards, or 
paseos
DO: Where cul-de-sacs exist, pedestrian 
linkages shall be provided to create direct 
connections.
DO: Limit the maximum length of any side of a 
block to no more than 350 feet.
DO: Provide midblock connections to break 
up large developments.

--- page 22 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
12
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
EXAMPLE #2
Residential Building Frontages
Purpose
Residential building frontages along a public street, public right-
of-way, or common area provide an important transition between 
private development and the public realm. 
Example Objective Design Standards
Setback Treatment 
1.	 To accommodate porches and patios, a setback at least 5 
feet and no more than 10 feet from the right-of-way shall be 
incorporated between the public and private realm and create 
individual semiprivate landscape areas or garden spaces along 
the street.
2.	 The residential ground floor shall be located within 3 vertical feet 
of the ground level.
3.	 Fences between any private open space, common areas, or 
public spaces shall be limited to a maximum of 3 feet in height.
Activation
1.	 Residential buildings shall be designed with active frontages, 
with residential units facing the street, public right-of way, or 
common open space, with overhangs, balconies, windows, and 
individual entries and porches to enliven the street edge and add 
“eyes” on the street.
a.	 All ground-level units shall include an individual entry, porch, 
patio, or terrace.
b.	 A minimum of 50% of upper-story units shall include a 
balcony or terrace.
2.	 Ground-floor windows shall not be opaque or tinted.
3.	 Rooms such as living rooms and dining rooms shall be oriented 
fronting toward the street and/or any adjacent common open 
space. 
4.	 Where residential units are designed as townhomes or 
rowhomes, individual units shall be distinguished. This may be 
accomplished through the use of at least two of the following:
a.	 Change in wall plane
b.	 Change in color
c.	 Change in roof form
5.	 Blank walls without windows, doors, or other articulation are 
strongly discouraged. The maximum length of any blank wall 
shall be limited to 20 feet.
DON’T: Sideload units or create blank or 
facades without entries.
DO: Design both street and courtyard 
frontages with overhangs, balconies, windows, 
and individual entries.
DO: Provide a landscape setback between 
the right-of-way and individual porches and 
entries.
Primary Frontage Street
Ground Floor Street Activation

--- page 23 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
13
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
EXAMPLE #3
Design of Private Open Space
Purpose 
Courtyards, roof terraces, and other common areas within 
individual residential developments provide needed amenities to 
improve livability and public health.
Example Objective Design Standards
Sizing and Scale
1.	 Common open space shall be provided for all residential 
development, consistent with the following requirements:
a.	 At least 15% of the total gross development area shall be 
common open space.
b.	 Setback areas shall not be used to satisfy common open 
space requirements.
2.	 Private open space shall be provided for all residential projects, 
consistent with the following requirements:
a.	 80 square feet for ground-floor units in the form of a covered 
or uncovered patio;
b.	 40 square feet for upper-story multifamily units in the form 
of a terrace, balcony, or rooftop patio; and
c.	 120 square feet for stand-alone, multistory residential units.
3.	 Common open spaces, such as courtyards and gardens, shall 
have a minimum dimension of 40 feet in any direction, building 
face to building face.
Character
1.	 A minimum of 50% of the open space area shall be landscaped 
with live plant material.
2.	 Open spaces shall be planted with a minimum of two trees, each 
of which shall have a minimum container size of a 36-inch box 
at installation.
3.	 A minimum of three of the following activating features shall be 
incorporated into open spaces:
a.	 Fixed or movable seating
b.	 Picnic style tables
c.	 Shade trees or shaded canopy
d.	 Outdoor kitchen equipment
e.	 Children’s play equipment
f.	 Public art or interactive art, such as a life-size chess game
g.	 Water feature (in conformance with sustainability standards)
DO: Design common open spaces with a 
minimum dimension of 40 feet in any direction.
40’ min.
DO: Design common open spaces with live plant 
materials and shade trees.
DO: Design common open spaces with active 
components, such as play equipment.

--- page 24 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
14
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
OPTIONS FOR IMPLEMENTING OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
There are a range of options for local agencies implementing objective design standards. The examples below highlight 
basic approaches that rely on and adapt a local agency’s existing framework for regulating design.
Testing the Standards
As an initial step in implementation, test your standards against built projects considered acceptable to the community. 
This approach allows for refinement and helps ensure that your standards are effective and meet an agency’s need for 
flexibility.
Implementation
Options for implementing objective design standards begin with existing regulations. The following approaches can be 
used to supplement those regulations to provide more nuance and detail.
1
Rely on Existing 
Regulations 
Many existing zoning and other land 
development regulations already 
include objective design standards, 
such as minimum lot size, building 
height, setbacks, floor area ratio, 
and other standards that define a 
maximum building envelope.
2
Revise Existing  
Design Guidelines
Strategic updates to existing design 
guidelines can be made to remove 
or rephrase subjective language, 
incorporate objective requirements, 
and revise administrative intent (i.e., 
make them requirements instead 
of recommendations). Revisions 
will require more than searching 
for and replacing subjective terms. 
Once revised, design standards 
can be adopted as regulations to 
supplement existing zoning. 
3
Expand Existing 
Regulations
Existing zoning and other 
development regulations can be 
expanded with new objective design 
standards, or can be updated to 
remove subjective language and 
strengthen existing standards to 
ensure they are measurable and 
verifiable. 
Consider codifying informal 
requirements or creating a concise 
set of objective design standards. 
Zoning regulations may provide 
maximum enforceability; however, 
they are difficult to change, often lack 
extensive graphics, and depend on a 
formal process for variances.

--- page 25 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
15
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
ESSENTIAL COMPONENTS
The following components are essential to creating effective objective design standards.
Define Key Terms
Objective design standards rely on clear definitions of key terms. In some cases, it may also be necessary to define 
methodologies and procedures for performing calculations. Even terms that seem straightforward may need to be 
defined. Ideally, definitions should be coordinated and consistent with the underlying zoning code and the building 
code, especially when they involve architectural terminology.
Use a Statement of Intent
Statements of intent are often included to clarify the purpose and goals of particular design guidelines. Although a 
statement of intent is not essential to the regulatory aspect of objective design standards, it may be helpful to include 
one. Providing a statement of intent will help both applicants and agency staff understand the context of a group of 
standards. A statement of intent can also provide a basis for any variances from the standards that might be pursued or 
granted through a discretionary review process or through a minor variance.
Continue Using Discretionary Processes on an Opt-In Basis and for Noneligible Projects
Agencies are allowed to create a list of guidelines (i.e., recommendations) that can be published and used. Although 
the guidelines cannot be used to deny a project, they can be used to help communicate additional, more nuanced, or 
subjective design preferences and to establish and communicate design concepts. They can also be used as a means to 
provide “incentives” to a project (e.g., additional units, reduced parking, reduced fees) if included as part of the design. 
Applicants that propose an extraordinary or unusual design that deviates from objective design standards should still be 
allowed to follow a discretionary or alternative and ancillary approval process and/or design review. 
Allow Minor Variances or Deviations
Allowing minor variances or deviations at a staff level is an essential tool that can provide staff the ability to approve 
deviations from specified regulations. It can provide the flexibility necessary to allow small adjustments based on site 
conditions or specific design details while still relying on objective standards. Objective design standards should outline 
a process and requirements for staff to approve minor variances. Minor variances may be enabled within objective 
design standards by prescribing specific procedures and required findings for the relaxation of any specific portion of 
the standards.

--- page 26 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
16
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
KEY DESIGN TOPICS
Objective design standards must address a range of key design topics and be tailored to the unique needs of each 
agency. The key design topics presented on the following pages highlight incrementally more detailed and complex 
design topics. Many of the topics listed below may be included in different sections of a local agency’s zoning and land 
development regulations. However, it is often beneficial for usability and administration to consolidate all applicable 
objective design standards in a single document.
Local Context and Role of Place
Objective design standards need to be calibrated to local conditions and the 
context of different places in a given jurisdiction. There is no one-size-fits-all 
solution. Each jurisdiction should consider which topics are the most important 
to regulate through objective standards and on which topics it will remain silent 
on to allow creativity and flexibility. In addition, it may be desirable to provide 
design standards for different areas of the community or even housing types (e.g., 
downtown, historic, or mixed use). 
What are the key design topics to regulate in your community? What design topics 
differentiate the district or community? And how can you distill those elements 
into objective design standards? Local context and general design guidance may 
already be found in plans and policies, such as:
	
►General plan goals 
	
►Area and community plans
	
►Specific plans and planned unit developments
	
►Coastal zone
	
►Local hazards
	
►Open space conservation

--- page 27 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
17
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Use Regulations 
Ensure that allowable uses for residential and mixed-use projects are 
supported by clear definitions, and carefully consider the criteria required 
to allow any conditional uses. Depending on how they are written and 
structured, use regulations may themselves be considered objective design 
standards. Conditionally permitted uses often depend on other standards 
that also should be objective. Regulations on the following elements should 
be considered: 
	
►
Allowable uses
	
►
Conditionally permitted uses
	
►
Density
Building Envelope 
Zoning regulations typically provide objective design standards, such as 
those related to the following elements, which together help define the 
maximum building envelope:
	
►
Lot/block size
	
►
Lot coverage
	
►
Height
	
►
Setbacks or stepbacks
Site Design and Refined Massing
Zoning regulations may provide limited guidance on site design and 
refined building massing. More detailed standards for site design and 
building massing, including those related to the following elements, can be 
incorporated:
	
►
Transitions from adjacent 
properties
	
►
Maximum building length
	
►
Programming/arrangement of 
spaces
	
►
Orientation
	
►
Pedestrian/vehicular access
	
►
Parking

--- page 28 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
18
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
Building Design and Articulation
Design standards for building design and articulation address important 
topics related to the relationship between a building and its surroundings. 
Emphasis should be given to the design of ground floors, which have a 
significant influence on the pedestrian environment and the overall public 
realm. Standards can address topics such as the following examples:
	
►
Frontage types
	
►
Design of ground floors
	
►
Building entries
	
►
Facade/plane break
	
►
Roof forms
	
►
Corner treatment
	
►
Private open space, balconies, 
and patios
	
►
Common open space
Building and Landscape Details
The level of detail addressed in objective design standards should be 
tailored to the criteria that are most relevant to the community and the 
desired community character. For example, in some communities, it may be 
important to focus on building materials and landscaping, while in others, 
it may be important to provide limited objective design standards across a 
larger number of topics, including the following example topics:
	
►
Materials
	
►
Transparency
	
►
Fenestration
	
►
Color
	
►
Awnings
	
►
Plant palette
	
►
Screening and fencing
	
►
Outdoor furnishings
	
►
Signage 
	
►
Exterior lighting
Architectural Style
In some communities, it may be important to address a particular 
architectural character or style. Standards that address architectural style 
need to be carefully tailored to ensure that they are objective and specifically 
address and define architectural style. Objective design standards may 
also be differentiated by building typology or focus area where necessary. 
Supplemental (nonobjective) architectural design guidelines may still be 
used to help communicate details of architectural style, but they cannot be 
used to deny an eligible housing development project. Where appropriate, 
objective design standards may address historic preservation, in conjunction 
with other requirements, including the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards 
for the Treatment of Historic Properties.

--- page 29 ---
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TOOLS | SB 2 PLANNING GRANTS PROGRAM
19
Approaches and Considerations for Objective Design Standards
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
In conjunction with other related requirements included in SB 35 and SB 330, objective design standards present 
important considerations for local agencies approving housing developments.
Limited Role of Public Hearings
SB 35 and SB 330 both place additional limitations 
on public hearings. SB 35 explicitly requires cities and 
counties to provide a “streamlined ministerial approval 
process” for eligible affordable housing projects, which 
is defined in Government Code Section 65913.4(d)(1) as 
follows:
Any design review or public oversight of the 
development may be conducted by the local 
government’s 
planning 
commission 
or 
any 
equivalent board or commission responsible for 
review and approval of development projects, or the 
city council or board of supervisors, as appropriate. 
That design review or public oversight shall be 
objective and be strictly focused on assessing 
compliance with criteria required for streamlined 
projects, as well as any reasonable objective design 
standards published and adopted by ordinance or 
resolution by a local jurisdiction before submission 
of a development application, and shall be broadly 
applicable to development within the jurisdiction. 
That design review or public oversight shall be 
completed as follows and shall not in any way 
inhibit, chill, or preclude the ministerial approval....
Furthermore, until January 1, 2025, SB 330 prohibits an 
agency from conducting more than five hearings “if a 
proposed housing development project complies with the 
applicable, objective general plan and zoning standards 
in effect at the time an application is deemed complete.“ 
As described in Government Code Section 65905.5(a), an 
agency “shall consider and either approve or disapprove 
the application at any of the five hearings.”
Changing Burden of Proof
One of the implications of objective design standards 
is that there is a significant change in the burden of 
proof. Typically, design guidelines require an applicant 
to demonstrate consistency with design guidelines and 
often navigate the design review process. Through this 
process, the burden of proof rests on the applicant, who 
must demonstrate that the design guidelines have been 
applied in a manner that satisfies the design review board 
or zoning administrator. 
1  See Government Code Section 65589.5 for additional detail about burden of proof.
2  See McCorkle Eastside Neighborhood Group, et al. v. City of St. Helena, et al. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 80.
However, objective design standards require an agency 
to provide a preponderance of evidence based upon a 
reasonable person standard showing that a project does 
not meet an objective design standard before it can 
deny the project. In other words, a project is assumed to 
be consistent unless an agency demonstrates through 
a preponderance of evidence in the record that the 
project does not meet an objective design standard. This 
significantly shifts the burden of proof from the applicant 
to the agency.1
CEQA Streamlining
SB 35
Projects eligible for the streamlining provisions of SB 
35 are considered ministerial and are not subject to the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). SB 35 was 
amended in 2018 to include a specific exemption from 
CEQA for qualifying projects under Section 65913.4(c)(2). 
Only technical studies required by an objective 
standard may be required of a project eligible for SB 35 
streamlining (e.g., stormwater quality management plan, 
water and sewer studies, traffic studies, biological survey, 
historical survey).
SB 330
Although projects eligible for streamlining under SB 
330 are not considered ministerial by statute, the use of 
objective standards removes a potential CEQA trigger 
associated with the review of discretionary actions.2 
Although SB 330 may remove a CEQA trigger, other 
objective standards may still require technical studies 
to provide substantial evidence that there are no 
environmental impacts.

--- page 30 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)
•
Projects in commercial 
districts(C1, C2, C3, C4, 
CBD) with residential 
uses 
•
TOD and E1 – Executive 
Park Districts
•
Residential and 
Downtown Overlays

--- page 31 ---
Bike racks?
Store
inside?
Keeping
things
simple
Interactive Discussion
San Mateo Multi-Family Objective Design Standards | Workshop June 1, 2021
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 1
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 2
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 3
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 4
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 6
Other Comments
Site Design 
Is this building
placement efficient?
Massing
Is this building overly
bulky and/or out of scale?
Articulation
Does the building face have
visually interesting elements and
variation?
Materials
Do the materials harmonize with one
another? With the San Mateo
community context?
Transitional Design
Does this building respect neighboring uses and
predominant development pattern?
Streetscape Relationship
Does this design nurture a desirable ground-
floor environment along the frontage?
Open Space
Is this an attractive and functional open
space configuration?
Lighting and Site Security
Does this appear to be well-illuminated and
secure?
Example 5
Other Comments
missing
common
area
maintenance
overtime
problematic
nice modern
take on
traditional
design 
elegant
design of
modern
housing
good job of
using
restraint
A multifamily
that could pass
as a single
family home. 
incorporate
similar
materials to
existing
neighborhood
find front
door
easily
define balance
for different
neighborhoods
does not tell
much - post-
modern
look
appropriate in
low density
neighborhood
how garage,
driveway,
parking
element(s) are
handled 
bird strikes
on glass
ultraviolet
glass
Garage
doors too
prominent
Seems very
boxy,
imposing
Slanted
roofs clunky
Hardscape and
garage doors
dominate the
street facade at
ground level 
 pretty busy with
the number of
materials, colors
and planes 
articulation
need to be
purposeful,
not overly
arbitrary 
Massing is
not problem,
it is the
design.
ODS - take a
facade
developed
before 1940
and recreate
Built before
war, ODS can
reference
traditional
forms
fit in with a
residential
neighborhood,
it just needs to
be less busy
Not a lot of
enablement
of outdoor
activity
encourage
balconies,
patios,
central
courtyards
SM has many great
examples of multi-
family, large units.
Look around main
library on 4th ave.
not functional
for residents
(furniture), too
much window
frontage
Streetscape
unappealing
Too much
glass.  I don’t
get the
stucco zig-
zags.
Not elevating
sense of
community,
call attention
to itself
claymation
face
more landscaping
and fine grained
elements to make
ped friendly,
human scale
More shared
spaces,
appears cold
Blocky,
glassy,
inhumane,
does not fit
into context
Lit glass
attracts birds,
perfect target
for birds
Too busy.
Articulation and
color is not
working for it. 
I don't like
lighted center
stairwell that
impacts non-
residents.  Too
much glass.
Flexibility for
many
different
types of retail
protected bicycle/
walking lane,
greenery, tables &
chairs if there’s F&B
on that first floor 
gardens/vertical
gardens to
provide softness
at pedestrian
scales
continuous,
interesting
lower level
for
pedestrians
Massing is clunky and
top heavy; feels like
the upper 5 floors are
crushing the ground
floor, which is visually
receeding.
Really like
glass, light is
important 
More
greenery,
plants trained
to grow up the
wall
Lack of ingress/
egress
Balance
security with
ground floor
access
allow people to
take advantage
of tradeoffs, not
every single box
check, menu of
items
implies balcony,
but does not exist.
Encourage real
ones. Do not
imply functionality.
highlight
entrance
more. 
Articulation is
good, massing
is okay, color
palette needs
more work.
window placement
works
psychologically -
symmetrically
located, vertically
oriented
Door
difficult to
find
Street level
- flat and
plain
need more
detail and
visual
interest
Streetscape
is minimal
Top of building
could use more
articulation at
the long flat wall
sections
Pedestrian
entry needs to
celebrated and
easy to find.
The relationship
of window size
to solid building
elements will be
important.
Details here will be
critical.  This
example has large
windows but
doesn't feel like an
all glass building.
See first floor be
completely
different from
other floors. TLC
on blankness of
walls.
Chance to see
someone you
know, social
collision 
Over-
articulated
on the
bottom.
The lighted
center
stairwell
looks great.
The green space in
the final product
turned out much
nicer than in the
render. The mature
trees really help.
You can see
bike racks 
Balcony space -
overdue space
where it is not
used, focus more
on communal
space
Don't overdue
balcony space
requirements
not as
inviting, or
functional, on
the corner
the wrap around
balconies seems to
“weaken” the
corner.  Perhaps
less balcony would
enhance the
massing.
The color palette
works well together
(not a ton of
contrasting colors),
it’s light and bright,
lots of balconies for
people to enjoy the
outdoors
Street facing
element more
important
Not crazy about how
far the building is set
back from the street,
taking valuable space
away from adding
more units.  Feels a
little over-articulated.
I really like the
balconies here;
ideally, they’d
be allowed, but
not required.
Materials and
colors use more
adjustment in
balance of
proportions
If you could
walk up to that
first floor corner
balcony, that
would be nice.
call to attention
uniqueness
instead of
evenly
distributing
everything
More primary,
identify
secodary and
terttiary colors
and materials,
more contrast
Wonderful if
people use
balcony to enjoy
outdoor & maybe
have plants.  But
too often used as a
closet.
Generous setback and
nice relationship
between the building
and the public walkway.
Feels like all the design
effort and money was
spent on the corner
element.
material
differentiation is
not working,
overdesigned. 
Setback at third
and fourth levels
too much, not
mandating
cascading effect.
his aesthetic (too
many colors,
materials,
setbacks) will
become dated
pretty quickly
Suffers from
exuberance
of materials
flexible
zoning for
activated
pedestrian
realm
Allow uses that
truly activate a
space (coffee
kiosk, outdoor
seating)
Human scale
uses that does
not require
license like
traditional retail
Articulation needs
to be more uniform:
less at the upper
levels and more at
the ground level. 
Color
palette in
not very
exciting
Greater
setback width
at ground floor
retail frontages.
Setbacks
overused
Setbacks for
setback's
sake is
absurd
Windows too
receded, have
windows and
doors get most
design elemnt
Cascading setbacks
and building
articulation give the
building an
appealing texture,
but may have gone a
bit too far.
Windows are more
expensive than
facade, meet
daylighting
standards but not
overly exceed,
discourage bigger
Windows - not so
much bigger; trim.
Architectural
detailing focused
on windows.
make windows
FEEL bigger
with trim and
other detailing,
get better
aesthetic 
Not
addressing
signage
requirements
no examples of
4 -6 story range
- additional
elements to
consider
how we can enable
good way finding
through design and
ensure that retail has the
ability to customize in a
way that is cohesive with
the look and feel of the
building.

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo 
Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family 
Projects Community Workshop #1 
Questions and Answers 
 
The following is a compilation of questions received from the virtual “Objective Design Standards for 
Multi-Family Projects” community workshop, held on June 1, 2021 as a Zoom meeting. These questions 
were asked by participants during the “Questions + Answer Session” following the main presentation. 
Several questions were submitted via chat during this session as well. All questions and responses are 
listed below: 
 
 
From Questions and Answer session: 
1. What differentiates “large projects” and what qualifies this? 
• 
This will be defined through the objective design standards process. State law only addresses “multi-
family” through the law.  
2. Will there be objective design standards for large projects? 
• 
There will be objective design standards for anything that is not a single-family home. 
3. How detailed can objective design standards be in regulating design? 
• 
It varies. The level of detail a city or county deemed appropriate for the standards to apply depends on 
how they want to implement them and regulate design. Some jurisdictions may require detailed 
standards while others may opt to keep them more flexible. 
• 
Another important detail to consider is how these standards are applied. Per State law, standards shall 
be written to where two reasonable people must agree to what a standard says. 
4. Will this process cover standards for projects that are five stories or greater? 
• 
Yes. Objective standards will be created for all multi-family residential and mixed-use type develop with 
residential uses proposed.  
5. Is the discretionary review track still a choice for projects? 
• 
Yes. Anything larger than a single-family project that does not comply with the objective design 
standards may opt to follow a discretionary track.  
 
 
From chat: 
1. What is the definition of mid-rises (heights) in San Mateo? 
• 
In the context of this discussion, mid-rise projects are loosely defined as apartments or mixed-use 
developments that are four (4) or more floors. The upper threshold of the range typically describing mid-
rise projects is 12 stories, though this is not applicable to this applicable to the context of San Mateo as 
height limits currently prevent developments of this height.  
2. How is design quality and architectural compatibility maintained in the Downtown Historic District if qualitative 
standards do not apply? 
a. Objective Standards will not apply to anything within planning areas that provide objective standards 
through their provisions (e.g., a specific plan).  
3. What does the State law allow for addressing neighborhood concerns since council and planning commission are 
not included in the approval?  
a. Concerns could include adequate parking, adequate composting/recycling processes, construction too 
large for a lot and thus too close to a neighbors' homes.

--- page 33 ---
• The objective design standards aim to create and implement standards that address these a 
variety of contexts. Part of this process is to seek out what some concerns are in order to tailor 
the objective design standards in a way that leads to development that is compatible with the 
community.  
• Objective design standards are “on top” of other existing standards, including parking and floor 
area ratio (FAR), which are in the City’s zoning code. This project does not aim to modify these 
existing standards.

--- page 34 ---


--- page 35 ---
SAN MATEO 
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL 
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS
PLANNING COMMISSION 
STUDY SESSION #1
AUGUST 24, 2021

--- page 36 ---
AGENDA
1.
Welcome + Introductions
2.
Project Overview
3.
What Are Objective Design Standards?
4.
Elements of Multi-Family Residential Design
5.
Interactive Discussion
6.
Next Steps 
7.
Public Comment + Close

--- page 37 ---
PROJECT OVERVIEW
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES



--- page 38 ---
OBJECTIVES + OUTCOMES
•
Create and adopt new standards to 
regulate design of new multi-family 
residential and mixed-use development 
projects in San Mateo
•
Meet criteria outlined in State law 
•
Listen to and learn from the community 
and other stakeholders
•
Reassess priorities to guide superior 
multi-family residential design in San 
Mateo

--- page 39 ---
WHAT ARE OBJECTIVE DESIGN 
STANDARDS?
•
Why do we have to create Objective 
Design Standards?
•
What do they affect?
•
Where are they applicable?
•
How will they work?

--- page 40 ---
WHY DO WE HAVE OBJECTIVE 
DESIGN STANDARDS?
•
Housing Accountability Act, SB 35: 
Streamline Approval Process, and SB 330: 
Housing Crisis Act of 2019
•
Remove challenges created by 
discretionary processes and thus 
streamline development of multi-family 
units 
•
Address supply shortage of affordable 
and rental units
•
Allow local jurisdictions to create tailored 
standards

--- page 41 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
All sites that can support 
Multi-family Residential 
and/or Mixed-Use 
projects

--- page 42 ---
City of
San Mateo

Zoning Map
LEGEND

Zoning Districts

OF BURLINGAME

crrvor Foster cry C1- Neighborhood Commercial

C2- Regional/Community
Commercial

C3- Regional/Community
Commercial

C4- Service Commercial

CBD- Central Business

CBD/S- Central Business Support
E1- Executive Park

E2- Executive Offices

M1- Manufacturing
R1A- One Family Dwelling "A"
“mlyhein R1B- One Family Dwelling "B"
R1C- One Family Dwelling "C”

R2- Two Family Dwellings

R3- Multiple Family Dwellings
(Med. Density)

R4- Multiple Family Dwellings
(High Density)

a . R5- Multiple Family Dwellings
ey in ES ( (High Density)

R6-D- Multiple Family Dwellings
Downtown

A- Agricultural

OS- Open Space

ales Ke \ oll S- Shoreline
bi — fs BMSP- Bay Meadows Specific
i y Plan

TC- Transportation Corridor

: POE Zr. AG TOD- Transit Oriented
wet ¢ cee | ie et

os | nie) aan zl ro Sawin e : z . Development

a ( ,, XO} Overlay Districts Noted on Map:
TONG /QC- Qualified
ane ae us 4 ‘ /SC- Senior Citizen Overlay

ONO x i re i . , /R- Residential Overlay District
BP a $ ‘ie Pook ROR of ; rey ‘ -D- Downtown Residential

San Mateo City Limits

a : ay San Francisco Bay & Lagoon

Vo Bewon OOS Rte Assessor Parcels

SCALE
1"= 1,000"

snsulted for exact informatio

Prepared by
Planning Division



--- page 43 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)

--- page 44 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)
•
Projects in commercial 
districts(C1, C2, C3, C4, 
CBD) with residential 
uses

--- page 45 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)
•
Projects in commercial 
districts(C1, C2, C3, C4, 
CBD) with residential 
uses 
•
TOD and E1 – Executive 
Park Districts

--- page 46 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)
•
Projects in commercial 
districts(C1, C2, C3, C4, 
CBD) with residential 
uses 
•
TOD and E1 – Executive 
Park Districts
•
Residential and 
Downtown Overlays

--- page 47 ---
WHERE ARE THEY APPLICABLE?
•
Multiple-family zoning 
districts (R2, R3, R4, R5, 
R5-D)
•
Projects in commercial 
districts(C1, C2, C3, C4, 
CBD) with residential 
uses 
•
TOD and E1 – Executive 
Park Districts
•
Residential and 
Downtown Overlays
Not Applicable
•
Commercial-only projects
•
Single-family homes
•
Any other non-residential 
development
•
Historical properties

--- page 48 ---
All new Multi-Family residential and Mixed-Use projects, including:
WHAT DO THEY AFFECT?
Townhouses 
+ 
Rowhouses
Mid-Rises
Mixed-Use
Duplexes
+
Triplexes
Condos
+ 
Apartments

--- page 49 ---
All new Multi-Family residential and Mixed-Use projects, including:
Townhouses 
+ 
Rowhouses
Mid-Rises
Mixed-Use
Duplexes
+
Triplexes
Condos
+ 
Apartments
…if they meet all standards set by the 
Objective Design Standards
WHAT DO THEY AFFECT?

--- page 50 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK?
SUBJECTIVE VS. OBJECTIVE
•
Existing Zoning Code 
establishes baseline 
standards (setbacks, 
density, height, parking) 
•
New Objective Design 
Standards for site 
planning, building 
massing, etc. are 
Quantifiable and 
Objective
•
Existing Multi-family 
Design Guidelines will still 
apply to projects opting 
for a Discretionary Review
track
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
Multi-Family Design 
Guidelines
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards
Quantifiable and Objective
Qualitative and Subjective

--- page 51 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK?
SAMPLE GUIDELINE AND STANDARDS
SUBJECTIVE
OBJECTIVE (SAMPLE)
• The arrangement of doors, windows and other 
architectural elements should provide visual interest 
without the appearance of being overly busy; 
• Proportion, spacing and pattern should be considered in 
the arrangement of architectural elements
• Building facades along primary frontages shall include a min. 2’ 
articulating extrusion with a 10’ horizontal length at a min. of every 
15 linear feet. 
• Each articulating extrusion shall include at least one window and 
one door if accessing front yard or private open space. 
Extrusions of 2’ in depth and 10’ in length

--- page 52 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK?
SAMPLE GUIDELINE AND STANDARDS
SUBJECTIVE
OBJECTIVE
Avoid changes in building height greater than one story 
from adjacent structures. If changes are greater, step back 
upper floors to ease the transition. 
A 45-degree daylight plane shall be established starting at a 
point originating at a height of 20’ above the setback line along 
property lines shared with single-family residential districts
Setback
Property 
Line
Single-Family Residential 
District
45-degree 
Daylight 
Plane
Discretionary Review 
required deliberate and 
reach consensus
Ministerial Review 
required to assess 
whether standards are 
met

--- page 53 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Proposal

--- page 54 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Planning Staff Review
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Project 
Proposal

--- page 55 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
Project 
Proposal
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines

--- page 56 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
Project 
Proposal
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines

--- page 57 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Project submittal 
that complies with 
Objective Design 
Standards
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
Project 
Proposal
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines

--- page 58 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards
Ministerial Review – New Track
Zoning 
Ordinance
Development 
Standards
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
Project 
Proposal
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines
Project submittal 
that complies with 
Objective Design 
Standards

--- page 59 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards
Ministerial Review – New Track
Zoning 
Ordinance
Development 
Standards
No 
Discretionary 
Review Required
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
* Associated applications 
(e.g., tentative map) may 
require discretionary 
review
Project 
Proposal
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines
Project submittal 
that complies with 
Objective Design 
Standards

--- page 60 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards
Ministerial Review – New Track
Zoning 
Ordinance
Development 
Standards
Objective 
Design Standard 
-compliant 
Project Decision
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
* Associated applications 
(e.g., tentative map) may 
require discretionary 
review
Project 
Proposal
No 
Discretionary 
Review Required
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines
Project submittal 
that complies with 
Objective Design 
Standards

--- page 61 ---
HOW WILL THEY WORK? 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS
Multi-Family or 
Mixed-Use Project 
Submitted
Project 
Decision
Planning Staff Review
Multi Family 
Design 
Guidelines
Discretionary Review
Ministerial + Discretionary Review
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards
Ministerial Review – New Track
Zoning 
Ordinance
Development 
Standards
Project submittal 
that complies with 
ODS
Planning Commission 
and/or City Council Review
* Other criteria may 
require discretionary 
review
Project 
Proposal
No 
Discretionary 
Review Required
Zoning 
Code
Development 
Standards
MFR 
Guidelines
New Ministerial Track subject to Objective 
Design Standards
Existing Discretionary Track Preserved
Planning Commission Review required
Objective 
Design Standard 
-compliant 
Project Decision

--- page 62 ---
Zoning Code 
and/or 
Specific Plan
Assess 
existing 
applicable 
standards
HOW DO WE CREATE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND GET THEM RIGHT?

--- page 63 ---
Assess 
existing 
applicable 
standards
MFR Guidelines
Create objective 
standards from 
subjective Design 
Guidelines
HOW DO WE CREATE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND GET THEM RIGHT? 
Zoning Code 
and/or 
Specific Plan

--- page 64 ---
Assess 
existing 
applicable 
standards
MFR Guidelines
Create objective 
standards from 
subjective Design 
Guidelines
Apply 
stakeholder and 
community input 
HOW DO WE CREATE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND GET THEM RIGHT? 
Zoning Code 
and/or 
Specific Plan

--- page 65 ---
Assess 
existing 
applicable 
standards
MFR Guidelines
Create objective 
standards from 
subjective Design 
Guidelines
Apply 
stakeholder and 
community input 
HOW DO WE CREATE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AND GET THEM RIGHT? 
Zoning Code 
and/or 
Specific Plan
Multi-Family 
Objective Design 
Standards

--- page 66 ---
ELEMENTS OF MULTI-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DESIGN



--- page 67 ---


--- page 68 ---


--- page 69 ---
A. SITE DESIGN


--- page 70 ---
B. MASSING


--- page 71 ---
C. ARTICULATION


--- page 72 ---
SITE DESIGN
MASSING
ARTICULATION
D. STREETSCAPE     
RELATIONSHIP
D
D

--- page 73 ---
SITE DESIGN
MASSING
ARTICULATION
STREETSCAPE  
RELATIONSHIP
E. OPEN SPACE
E
E
E
PRIVATE
COMMUNAL

--- page 74 ---
SITE DESIGN
MASSING
ARTICULATION
STREETSCAPE 
RELATIONSHIP
OPEN SPACE
F. TRANSITIONAL 
DESIGN
• MASSING
• ARTICULATION
• LANDSCAPE BUFFER
F
F
F

--- page 75 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
MULTI-FAMILY AND MIXED-USE DESIGN
Massing
Articulation
Site Design
Streetscape 
Relationship
Open 
Space
Transitional 
Design

--- page 76 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
SITE DESIGN
•
Overall site planning for 
optimization of parking, 
access, building 
placement, and other 
functions
•
Building mass located 
along frontages with 
parking behind
•
Townhouse/Rowhouse 
development may 
include central drive and 
garage spaces per unit
Townhome Example

--- page 77 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
MASSING
•
Aesthetics of 
mitigated versus 
unmitigated building 
mass
•
Modulation of mass 
through: 
• Stepbacks
• Alternating rooflines 
and heights 
• Multiple structures

--- page 78 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
ARTICULATION
•
Enhancements to 
building façade to 
create variety and 
visual interest
•
Alternating wall 
planes, extrusions and 
insets, horizontal and 
vertical elements
•
Can be done through 
bay windows, material 
plane changes, 
awnings

--- page 79 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
STREETSCAPE RELATIONSHIP
•
How the project 
responds to different 
street frontages types
•
Difference in design 
treatments between 
streets types (e.g., 
neighborhood context 
versus multi-modal 
corridor)
•
Elements include 
stoops, front yards, 
window treatments, 
landscaping

--- page 80 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
OPEN SPACE
•
Design, location, 
functionality, and 
other requirements for 
onsite open space 
features
•
Does not modify 
existing open space 
standards

--- page 81 ---
DESIGN ELEMENTS
TRANSITIONAL DESIGN
•
How the project 
responds to and 
respects adjacent 
development
•
Mass, scale, and use 
intensity along single-
family residential 
property lines
•
Shadow and daylight 
plane impacts

--- page 82 ---
DISCUSSION: MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL DESIGN IN SAN 
MATEO

--- page 83 ---
WHAT CONTRIBUTES TO THE CHARACTER OF SAN MATEO’S 
NEIGHBORHOODS?
WHICH DESIGN ELEMENT(S) ARE MOST IMPORTANT AND 
RELEVANT TO SAN MATEO’S NEIGHBORHOODS?
SHOULD THE SCOPE OF THE OBJECTIVE DESIGN 
STANDARDS BE EXPANDED TO INCLUDE A LARGER RANGE 
OF PROJECTS AND/OR REPLACE THE CITY’S CURRENT 
DISCRETIONARY DESIGN GUIDELINES?
1.
2.
3.

--- page 84 ---
NEXT STEPS

PROJECT SCHEDULE



--- page 85 ---
PROJECT SCHEDULE

PHASE |

DISCOVERY

Community Workshop
Focus Group Meetings

Study Session

PHASE II
DRAFT ODS

Draft Objective Design
Standards

Draft Graphics/Exhibits

Planning Commission
Study Session

PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW

Public Review Draft
ODS

Revised Standards/-
Graphics

PHASE IV

ADOPTION

Finalize Edits

Present to Planning
Commission and City
Council for Adoption


--- page 86 ---
PROJECT SCHEDULE

PHASE |
DISCOVERY

Community Workshop

Focus Group Meetings

Study Session

PHASE II

DRAFT ODS

Draft Objective Design
Standards

Draft Graphics/Exhibits

Planning Commission
Study Session

PHASE III
PUBLIC REVIEW

Public Review Draft
ODS

Revised Standards/-
Graphics

PHASE IV

ADOPTION

Finalize Edits

Present to Planning
Commission and City
Council for Adoption


--- page 87 ---
MORE QUESTIONS? 
COMMENTS?
Project Website: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4526
City Staff Contact:
Wendy Lao, AICP
Associate Planner
(650) 522-7219
wlao@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 88 ---
PUBLIC COMMENT



--- page 89 ---
THANK YOU!



--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4938
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 24, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Recommendation – Draft Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance  
RECOMMENDATION:
Review an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory 
Dwelling Unit” in accordance with current state law and make a recommendation to the City Council.
BACKGROUND:
On January 1, 2020, updated state law related to the development of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and junior accessory 
dwelling units (JADUs) went into effect. On March 2, 2020, staff presented the City Council with an overview of the 
changes to ADU and JADU regulations and how it affected the City’s local rules and procedures. The Council provided 
feedback on the changes and directed staff to conduct community outreach to solicit feedback to better understand how 
residents want to see future ADU and JADU development. However, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted planned outreach 
efforts and the ordinance update process was put on hold. In the interim, as required by state law, staff has been 
implementing the state’s ADU and JADU regulations while maintaining existing local ordinance provisions which do not 
conflict with state law.
On February 9, 2021, the Planning Commission reviewed an interim draft Ordinance update to the City’s ADU and JADU 
Regulations (SMMC Chapter 27.19) intended to align with state law in advance of a second, more comprehensive 
ordinance update reflective of community input. The Planning Commission recommended the draft Ordinance to City 
Council by a vote of 4-1. On March 15, 2021, the City Council reviewed the introduction of the interim draft Ordinance and 
it passed to a second reading by a vote of 4-1. The draft Ordinance included a maximum building height for a detached 
ADU as 16 feet to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak from existing grade. However, on April 5, 2021, the Council 
declined to adopt the Ordinance due to concerns that the height limit might be too restrictive, and that additional 
community input was needed.  Council directed staff to conduct outreach as expeditiously as possible to engage the 
community on those areas of ADU/JADU requirements that remain under local control, including ADU building height, and 
to bring back a revised draft ordinance informed by public input. 
Outreach consisted of two virtual ADU workshops at the end of June, and an online community survey which ran from 
mid-July to late August. The specifics of the community workshops and survey are discussed in greater detail in the 
corresponding sections of this report. The community feedback collected during these outreach efforts were used to 
inform the proposed Ordinance that updates San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Units and 
Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” as discussed in this report and included as Attachment 1.  A comprehensive summary of 
the changes to State’s ADU and JADU laws, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD), is 
included as Attachment 2.

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DISCUSSION:
Community Workshops
Staff held virtual community workshops on Thursday, June 24, 2021 (evening) and Saturday June 26, 2021 (morning); with 
a total of 65 attendees participating in both workshops.  The purpose of the workshops was to provide an overview of the 
changes to state ADU law to the community, outline the areas of local discretion and potential ordinance options, and 
solicit community feedback on each subject area by asking nine targeted questions at the end of each presentation. The 
questions were focused on ADU and JADU development standards, including building height, architecture and design, size 
standards, and parking requirements.  The results are referenced in the respective subsections of this report. A summary 
of the community workshop events, including the discussion, poll questions, and aggregated poll data are included as 
Attachment 3.
Online Community Survey
In addition to the community workshops, staff posted an online survey which ran from July 15, to August 22, 2021, and 
posed the same questions asked during the workshops. An email notification providing a direct link to the survey was sent 
to more than 2,850 individual email addresses, including the City’s “900 List,” which contains individuals and organizations 
interested in citywide planning projects, interested parties list, and both the Planning Commission’s and City Council’s 
“Notify Me” lists, and was also included in the Planning Division’s eNewsletter update. Additionally, notification of the 
survey was updated on the City’s social media channels.
The final results of the survey will not be available at the time of publishing this report, however, staff will present the final 
survey results to the Planning Commission during its August 24, 2021, regular meeting. As of August 18, the survey has 
been accessed 425 times, of which 213 visitors have completed the survey. It should be noted that 150 of 213 completed 
survey responses were submitted during the first week the survey was released. Preliminary results as of August 18, are 
discussed in the subsections below. 
Proposed Code Amendments
SMMC 27.19 – Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
The State’s updated ADU and JADU laws expressly limit the ability of local jurisdictions to regulate the creation of ADUs 
and JADUs. However, local agencies are still allowed to impose certain development and design standards, including but 
not limited to, parking, building height, setback, landscape, architectural review, and maximum unit size standards, 
provided the requirements do not conflict with the minimum provisions established under the law (Gov. Code § 65852.2 
and § 65852.22). 
The proposed amendments to SMMC 27.19 incorporate the comprehensive changes to state ADU law as-is and the 
proposed draft Ordinance remains largely unchanged from the interim draft that the Planning Commission reviewed and 
recommended to the City Council on February 9, 2021. However, the following development standards discussed below 
have been further refined and simplified after obtaining community feedback and considering ADU standards of other 
local jurisdictions. 
Exempted Floor Area
State law permits a property owner “by-right,” the ability to construct an ADU (attached or detached) that is at least 800 
square feet (sq. ft.) in size and at least 16 feet in height, with side and rear setbacks of four feet. Such ADUs can be 
constructed regardless of size-related development standards such as those limiting square footage based on the primary 
dwelling size, lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise limit or preclude its 
construction. This provision effectively results in up to 800 sq. ft. of exempted floor area that would not be included when 
calculating maximum floor area for a given parcel. As such, the proposed Ordinance provides that the first 800 sq. ft. of 
any new ADU is exempt from the maximum allowable floor area. Any floor area over 800 sq. ft. is counted toward a 
parcel’s maximum floor area as specified by the underlying zoning district.

--- page 92 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Maximum Unit Sizes
The City is currently defaulting to the maximum ADU sizes (i.e., floor area) specified by the state legislation for jurisdictions 
that do not have compliant local ordinance. The state’s maximum ADU sizes are 1,200 sq. ft. for a detached ADU and up to 
50 percent of the floor area of the primary dwelling for an attached ADUs. Local jurisdictions may establish maximum ADU 
sizes by ordinance if that maximum allows an attached or detached ADU to be at least 850 sq. ft. for a studio or one-
bedroom unit and at least 1,000 sq. ft. for an ADU of two bedrooms or more. 
To help simplify ADU development standards for developers and property owners, staff is proposing a maximum size for 
an attached ADU of up to 1,200 sq. ft. regardless of the number of bedrooms provided there is adequate remaining floor 
area allowance on the lot. With this approach, an ADU’s bedroom count or proportionality to the primary residence would 
not be a factor in determining its size potential. This also allows for future interior modifications which could add or 
remove bedrooms. In scenarios when the floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, the state exempted 800 sq. 
ft. for a new attached ADU would be the maximum size permitted. Results from the ADU workshops indicated the favored 
maximum size option for attached ADUs selected by attendees was “Up to 50% the size of the primary home, or up to 
1,200 sq. ft. maximum.” Preliminary results from the online community survey also indicate the same preference from 
respondents.
Staff is proposing a tiered approach for establishing the maximum unit size for detached ADUs. Lot sizes in the City’s 
residential zoned districts in San Mateo can vary dramatically. Of the 26,381 lots located in our R1-R5 and R4D-R6D zoning 
districts where ADU development is most likely to occur, approximately 71 percent of the lots are less than 10,000 sq. ft. in 
area; approximately 8 percent are between 10,000-19,999 sq. ft. in area; and approximately 21 percent are 20,000 sq. ft. 
or greater in lot area. As such, the proposed tiered approach would allow lots less than 10,000 sq. ft. in area to be 
developed with a detached ADU up to 1,200 sq. ft. in size, and 1,500 sq. ft. for lots 10,000 sq. ft. or greater in area. The 
tiered approach was the preferred answer choice selected by the ADU workshop attendees, and preliminary results from 
the online community survey also strongly indicate a preference for the tiered approach.
JADU + ADU Limiting Conditions
Gov. Code Section 65852.2 (e)(B) specifies that one detached, new construction ADU can be combined with a JADU on the 
same lot with an existing or proposed single-family residence. The aforementioned state ordinance includes a provision 
that allows a local jurisdiction to impose the following limiting conditions to the detached ADU:
 
(i)
A total floor area limitation of not more than 800 square feet
(ii)
A height limitation of 16 feet 
Staff recommends not imposing either of the limiting conditions on the detached ADU. Condition (i) would be difficult to 
apply in cases where an ADU over 800 sq. ft.  is constructed first, then a JADU is created later. This could also create an 
inequity amongst property owners with similar property conditions. Secondly, the height maximum for detached ADUs 
proposed in the draft Ordinance would establish the height limitation and provide consistency in the application of our 
municipal code and remove confusing nuance for the public. As such, imposing condition (ii) would not be applicable. 
Results from the ADU workshops indicated a nearly even split between those wanting to impose both conditions (i and ii), 
and those not wanting to impose either of the conditions. Preliminary results from the online community survey also 
reflect the same split among respondents. 
Architectural Standards and Objective Design Requirements
Local jurisdictions can apply architectural design standards on ADUs provided those requirements can be objectively 
imposed during building permit review. Examples of objective architectural design standards include requiring an ADU to 
match the roof form, exterior materials and colors, or architectural style (e.g., modern, ranch, Craftsman, etc.) of the 
primary home. 
Staff is proposing that no architectural compatibility requirement is imposed on detached ADUs to allow for greater design 
flexibility and range of alternatives for property owners, including the use of prefabricated, modular, or template design 
ADUs. However, detached ADUs that are attached to or located over an existing accessory structure would be required to

--- page 93 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
share a uniform architectural style and share exterior materials, roof form, and colors with the structure to which it is 
connected. Poll results from the ADU workshops indicated that most respondents felt detached ADUs should not be 
required to match the design of the primary home. Preliminary results from the online community survey also strongly 
indicate this preference. 
Two-story detached ADUs generally have the most potential for creating visual and privacy impacts on adjacent properties 
as they can be constructed within four feet of a side and rear property line.  As such, the proposed Ordinance includes the 
following objective design requirements for two-story detached ADUs to help mitigate potential privacy impacts on 
adjacent properties:

Second story windowsill heights shall be no less than 5 feet in height when directly facing a neighboring property 
and located within 4 feet of a side property line or within 15 feet of a rear property line.  As an alternative, 
permanently obscured glazing could be required for windowsills heights less than 5 feet and windows directly 
facing a side or rear property line

Open second-story stair landings facing the rear or side property lines nearest the ADU are not be permitted, 
except as the minimum area required to allow ingress and egress as established by the California Building Code

Second-story decks or balconies not associated with exiting requirements are be prohibited
Workshop results indicated strong interest from respondents for imposing objective design requirements on two-story 
ADUs to help address privacy concerns. The least selected answer choice was to not impose objective design standards. 
Preliminary results from the online community survey also strongly indicate a desire to impose objective design 
requirements from respondents.
Off-Street Parking
The City’s existing ordinance is consistent with state law which specifies required off-street parking associated with ADU 
development shall not exceed one parking space per ADU or per bedroom, whichever is less. Recent state legislation has 
trended towards not making parking an impediment to ADU development. In addition to providing several ADU parking 
exemptions (most lots in the City qualify), the new state legislation now eliminates replacement parking when a garage or 
covered parking structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, or conversion of that parking 
structure into an ADU as was previously required.
Even though most new ADUs would likely not be required to provide off-street parking, staff recognizes the increase of 
new ADUs will likely have a corresponding impact to on-street parking demand on residential streets. Further, many ADU 
applicants have expressed the desire to retain or create on-site replacement parking. Workshop and preliminary survey 
results indicated a strong interest from respondents for the City to consider additional parking allowances to 
accommodate off-street parking needs associated with ADU development. As such, the proposed Ordinance includes the 
following allowances for lots being developed with either an ADU or JADU, regardless of whether the property qualifies for 
a state parking exemption:

Up to one new parking space per ADU or JADU can be voluntarily provided on a lot;

Allows parking in required setback areas, including paved front, side, street-side, and rear yard setbacks;

An existing driveway can be maintained and/or expanded to provide a parking pad when a garage is converted;

Lots with existing driveway access to the rear yard may provide a parking pad in rear or side yard;

Maximum driveway width for single-car garages can be increased to 20 feet; and

Tandem parking allowed
Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
Consistent with the changes to state law, SMMC 27.04.165 (c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” definition has been 
amended to indicate that JADUs can now be constructed within the walls of an existing or proposed single-family 
residence and no longer require the inclusion of an existing bedroom. It should be noted that attached garages are 
considered part of the residence and can therefore be converted into a JADU.

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Building Height
Local jurisdictions may establish their own maximum building height for ADUs so long as it does not preclude an ADU of at 
least 16 feet in height. The state legislation does not define how building height is to be measured. However, the City’s 
municipal code does define building height as the vertical distance measured from existing grade to the top plateline, 
rather than to the tallest roof peak (or ridge) as many jurisdictions do. The plate can be roughly equated to the top of the 
uppermost framing member of the structure, just below the roof support structures. 
The proposed interim height maximum for detached ADUs, which was last reviewed by the City Council on April 5, 2021, 
was 16 feet to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak. However, as noted above, there was interest in taking a closer look at 
this height limit and engaging the community to gauge if this is appropriate. Both the workshop poll and online community 
survey presented three maximum height alternatives, each providing an 8-foot difference between its established 
maximum plateline height and roof peak height for added design flexibility:

16 feet to top plateline/24 feet to roof peak; meets the minimum state height requirement while still allowing for 
some two-story design options

20 feet to top plateline/28 feet to roof peak; middle height range that allows increased flexibility for two-story 
designs

24 feet to top plateline/32 feet to roof peak; same maximum building height permitted in our R1 and R2 zoning 
districts 
Poll results from the ADU workshops indicated a strong preference among respondents to limit building height for 
detached ADUs to 16 feet to top plateline/24 feet to roof peak as previously proposed by staff. However, preliminary 
results from the online community survey indicate a closer split among respondents with those favoring the higher height 
limit (24 feet to top plateline/32 feet to roof peak) slightly outnumbering those favoring the lower end of the proposed 
height ranges (16 feet to top plateline/24 feet to roof peak). Given the inconclusive results from the community outreach 
efforts, staff proposes defaulting to the building height maximum of the R1 and R2 zoning districts (24 feet to top 
plateline/32 feet to roof peak), which is currently allowed.  
It should be noted that 15 of the 20 incorporated cities and towns in San Mateo County establish maximum building height 
for detached ADUs at 20 feet or less. Of these jurisdictions, some simply defaulted to the state mandated requirement of 
16 feet, while others allow for some height increases beyond 20 feet to accommodate pitched roofs or certain 
development scenarios (e.g., ADU meets the underlying zoning districts setback requirements). If the Commission wishes 
to explore a lower height limit in order to offset any potential visual and privacy impacts of two-story ADUs on neighboring 
properties, a height limit of 20 feet to top plateline and 28 feet to roof peak could be considered, as it meets the state 
requirement and also has a basis in what other nearby cities in the county have done. 
Attached ADUs would be permitted to be at least 16 feet in height (to top plateline), and up to a maximum of 32 feet to 
roof peak as is permitted for homes in the R1 and R2 zoning districts. This would be applicable for all attached ADUs in any 
zoning district in which they are permitted. 
ADUs in the Required Front Yard Setback Area
State law specifies that new ADU construction provide for four-foot side and rear setbacks and allows local agencies to 
impose other setback standards. The City’s existing regulations do not allow ADUs in front of primary dwelling, whether 
inside or outside of the required front yard setback area. This conflicts with the state’s requirement to allow by-right ADUs 
subject to limited setback requirements, to be located in front of the primary dwelling, including in the front yard without 
limitation. However, required front yard setbacks, typically the first 15-25 feet from the front property line, serves many 
purposes including maintaining adequate sight distances around structures located near driveways and sidewalks to 
ensure vehicle and pedestrian safety. As such, staff recommends retaining the existing limitation on front yard setbacks for 
now and provided draft findings outlining health and safety concerns per the requirements of Gov. Code Section 65852.2 
(h)(2)(B)(ii). The issue was discussed with the Planning Commission at its February 9, meeting and was supported by a

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
majority of the commissioners. As such, the draft findings remain in the currently proposed ordinance attached to this 
report.
SMMC 27.19.020 and 27.19.080 Removed
SMMC currently includes two Sections 27.19.020 and 27.19.080 which prohibit properties with either an approved ADU or 
JADU from being subdivided at the time the ADU or JADU is approved or thereafter. These sections have been removed in 
the updated draft Ordinance as properties can be subdivided so long as they meet the requirements of the subdivision 
ordinance. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines because it is an 
accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of Government Code § 65852.2 and 65852.22.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Eight (8) public comments have been formally submitted since the March 15, 2021, City Council meeting, which has been 
included as Attachment 4. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Summary of State ADU/JADU Legislation Effective January 1, 2020
Att 3 – ADU Community Workshop Poll Questions & Results
Att 4 – Public Comments 
Att 5 - ADU Survey Results Aug 23, 2021 (graphs + other question results)
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, AICP, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amend Section 27.04.165 “Dwelling” to add a definition for “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit,” and Amend 
Various Sections of Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential 
Zones,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units 
is codified at Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 govern accessory dwelling units and junior 
accessory dwelling units and were recently amended; and
WHEREAS, these changes in state law necessitate amendments to Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose standards on 
accessory dwelling units in conformance with state law that include, but are not limited to, parking, height, 
setback, landscape, architectural review, maximum unit size, and standards that prevent adverse impacts on any 
real property that is listed in the California Register of Historic Resources; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(A) provides that the state Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) is to make findings regarding local agency ordinance compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, The City reads Government Code Section 65852.2 to authorize cities to regulate ADUs within 
the required front setback area; and
WHEREAS, HCD has reviewed the City’s proposed ordinance and believes that Government Code Section 
65852.2 authorizes the location of accessory dwelling units in required front setback areas and that the City is 
required to permit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(B)(ii) provides that, in the event that the City disagrees 
with an HCD finding, the City may adopt findings explaining why the ordinance is in compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to prohibit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas 
based on health and safety concerns;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings. The City Council of the City of San Mateo finds:
(a) Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose parking and setback standards 
in conformance with state law.

--- page 97 ---
(b) Government Code Section 65852.2(e) limits side and rear setbacks for accessory dwelling units to 
four feet, but does not address front setbacks.
(c) The City wishes to limit the location of accessory dwelling units to locations outside of the required 
front setback to address the following health and safety concerns:
(1) The City’s required front setback areas range from 15 feet to 25 feet.
(2) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to preserve visibility to 
the street from driveways and parking spaces for vehicles exiting the property in order to protect both 
pedestrians and passing vehicles.
Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.04.165 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit constructed within the 
walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including attached garages.
Section 3. Section 27.19.010 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.010 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in 
accordance with state law.
Section 4. Section 27.19.020 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is removed.
Section 5. Section 27.19.030 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 6. Section 27.19.040 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended as follows:
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Required
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADU is required in order to demonstrate 
that a unit is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions 
of this Article, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.

--- page 98 ---
Section 7. Section 27.19.050 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended as follows:
27.19.050 Development Standards
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on property zoned to allow residential 
use.
(b) Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be constructed on 
any site. 
(c) State Exempted “By Right” ADUs. A property may construct either an attached or detached ADU of at 
least 800 square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks 
regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, 
floor area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its construction. The 
floor area of any new ADU in excess of 800 square feet shall be applied to the maximum floor area allowance of 
the subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
(d) Maximum Unit Size. Floor area size maximums for ADU development in excess of 800 square feet are 
governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district and remaining floor area 
allowance available on the lot. In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a lot has been fully utilized, 
the state exempted “by right” ADU is permitted. Floor area associated with the ADU in excess of 800 square feet 
is applied to the floor area total of the lot.
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. An attached ADU may be up to a maximum 1,200 square 
feet in size subject to floor area ratio standards. 
(2) Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions. An ADU conversion within the walls of an existing 
primary residence or accessory structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be 
expanded up to 150 square feet beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to 
accommodate ingress and egress to the ADU. 
(3) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.  A detached ADU located on a lot less than 10,000 
square feet in size shall not exceed 1,200 square feet in floor area. A detached ADU located on a lot of 
10,000 or more square feet in size shall not exceed 1,500 square feet in floor area. 
(4) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. Subject to the floor 
area requirements, one new detached ADU may be constructed on a lot with a junior accessory dwelling 
unit (JADU). 
(e) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs.
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADUs is 24 feet 
to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade.

--- page 99 ---
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 20 feet 
to top plateline and 28 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(f) Setbacks. An ADU must provide a setback of at least four feet from both the side and rear yard 
setbacks and outside of any required front setback except that:
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure 
that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as 
the existing structure.
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing legally permitted garage.
(g) The ADU, whether attached or detached, shall provide a separate exterior entrance, and permanent 
provisions for living, sleeping, cooking facility/kitchen, and bathroom with shower.
(h) Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached from the 
primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted in the same locations 
on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning district provided that only a four 
foot side and rear setback will be required for an ADU.
(i) Number and Type of Required Parking Spaces.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space for each ADU or bedroom, whichever is less. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 
feet wide by 18 feet long without any obstructions. Parking associated with ADU or JADU development, 
whether required or voluntary, must be located entirely within the property, and may be provided in a 
garage, carport, uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, maximum driveway width for single-
car garages may be up to 20 feet to accommodate additional off-street parking. The required parking for 
the primary residential dwelling unit must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying 
zoning district.
(2) Location of Parking for Accessory Dwelling Units.  Parking for the accessory dwelling unit may 
be located in the required front, side, and rear yard setback areas. 
(3) Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU. 
(4) Voluntary Parking. If no parking space is required, a maximum of one parking space per ADU 
or JADU may be voluntarily provided. Parking Exemptions.  No additional parking shall be required for an 
ADU in the following instances:
(A) The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public transit; or

--- page 100 ---
(B) The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic 
district; or
(C) The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or 
an existing legally permitted accessory structure; or
(D) In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not offered to the 
occupant of the ADU; or
(E) When the ADU is located within one block of a car sharing pick-up/drop-off location.
(j) Architectural Standards. New ADUs and conversions of an existing legally permitted structure shall be 
designed to comply with the following standards:
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Locate the primary entrance to the ADU so that it is not directly facing the street 
unless precluded by existing site conditions as determined by the City; 
(B) Be of the same architectural style as the primary structure;
(C) Be constructed of the similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of colors as the 
primary residential dwelling unit; and
(D) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy;
(E) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the underlying zoning 
district.
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy;
(B) When second story windows directly face a neighboring property and are located 
within four feet of a side property line or within 15 feet of a rear property line, either:
(i) elevate windowsill so that top of windowsill is no less than 5 feet from floor; 
or
(ii) install and maintain permanently obscured windows;
(C) Not locate open second-story stair landings facing the rear or side property lines 
nearest the ADU, except to provide the minimum area required to allow ingress and egress as 
specified by the California Building Code; and

--- page 101 ---
(D) Not have second-story decks and balconies not associated with exiting 
requirements. 
(E) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of underlying zoning district. 
(k) Utility Service. If an ADU is constructed within existing space, a separate water connection, a sewer 
service connection, or power connection is not required for an ADU. If an ADU is not constructed within existing 
space, the City may require a new or separate utility connection.
(l) Utility Fees. For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a connection fee or capacity 
charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of a 
connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU’s burden.
(m) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.
(n) Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized 
variance is approved.
(o) For accessory dwelling units proposed within an existing multi-family structure or on a lot with an 
existing multi-family dwelling, the provisions of Government Code Section 65852.2(e)(1) apply. 
Section 8. Section 27.19.060 of Article I, “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code is 
amended as follows:
27.19.060 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1) Only one unit may be occupied solely by persons other than the owner or owners of record. 
This requirement is not applicable to ADUs approved between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2024, 
per California Gov. Code (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(6)).
(2) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the ADU separately from the sale of the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the ADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Section 9. Section 27.19.070, of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,“ of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:

--- page 102 ---
27.19.070 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).
Section 10. Section 27.19.080 of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is removed.
Section 11. Section 27.19.090, of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.090 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 12. Section 27.19.100, of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.100 Ministerial Permit Required
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the 
provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, a ministerial, non-
discretionary permit shall be issued.
Section 13. Section 27.19.110, of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.110 Development Standards
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the following 
development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on properties zoned to allow single-
family residential use, and for which a single-family residence exists, or is proposed to be built. The residential 
property shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other multi-family development.
(b) Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. The number of JADUs is limited to one per 
residential lot with a single-family residence. Lots with multi-family housing or more than one detached single-
family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs.
(c) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district.

--- page 103 ---
(d) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district, provided that the total floor 
area for the parcel or lot does not exceed the maximum allowable floor area.
(e) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed 
or legally existing single-family dwelling unit, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into JADUs.
(f) Unit Access.  A JADU must include:
(1) A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the one-family dwelling, which shall be 
provided to serve the JADU only; and
(2) An interior entry access between the JADU and the one-family dwelling. This interior entry 
access may be a door equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior door 
for sound attenuation.
(g) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components:
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU.
(h) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities, or may share 
sanitation facilities with the primary dwelling unit.
(i) Building and Fire Requirements.
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated improvements 
meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to the main living area 
for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke 
alarm in the main residence.
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector.
(j) Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for a JADU.
(k) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU.
(l) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.

--- page 104 ---
Section 14. Section 27.19.120, of Article II, “Junior Accessory Dwelling Units,” of Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1)  The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the junior accessory 
unit.
(2) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the JADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Section 15. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21080.17 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), the portion of this ordinance 
addressing accessory dwelling units is statutorily exempt from CEQA, because it relates to second units in a 
single family or multifamily residential zone.  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), the 
portion of this ordinance addressing junior accessory dwelling units is exempt from CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that amending the City’s Zoning Code to comply with state law 
requirements pertaining to junior accessory dwelling units within existing residences will have a significant effect 
on the environment.
Section 16. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 17. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 18. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 105 ---
4 
Summary of Recent Changes to Accessory 
Dwelling Unit Laws 
In Government Code Section 65852.150, the 
California Legislature found and declared that, among 
other things, allowing accessory dwelling units 
(ADUs) in zones that allow single-family and 
multifamily uses provides additional rental housing, 
and is an essential component in addressing 
California’s housing needs. Over the years, ADU law 
has been revised to improve its effectiveness at 
creating more housing units. Changes to ADU laws 
effective January 1, 2020, further reduce barriers, 
better streamline approval processes, and expand 
capacity to accommodate the development of ADUs 
and junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).  
ADUs are a unique opportunity to address a variety of 
housing needs and provide affordable housing 
options for family members, friends, students, the elderly, in-home health care providers, people with disabilities, 
and others. Further, ADUs offer an opportunity to maximize and integrate housing choices within existing 
neighborhoods.  
Within this context, the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) has prepared this 
guidance to assist local governments, homeowners, architects, and the general public in encouraging the 
development of ADUs. Please see Attachment 1 for the complete statutory changes. The following is a summary of 
legislation since 2019 that amended ADU law and became effective as of January 1, 2020. 
AB 68 (Ting), AB 881 (Bloom), and SB 13 (Wieckowski) 
Chapter 653, Statutes of 2019 (Senate Bill 13, Section 3), Chapter 655, Statutes of 2019 (Assembly Bill 68, 
Section 2) and Chapter 659 (Assembly Bill 881, Section 1.5 and 2.5) build upon recent changes to ADU and JADU 
law (Government Code Sections 65852.2, 65852.22 and further address barriers to the development of ADUs and 
JADUs) (Attachment A includes the combined ADU statute updates from SB 13, AB 68 and AB 881.) 
This recent legislation, among other changes, addresses the following: 
• 
Prohibits local agencies from including in development standards for ADUs requirements on minimum lot 
size (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(B)(i)). 
• 
Clarifies areas designated by local agencies for ADUs may be based on the adequacy of water and sewer 
services as well as impacts on traffic flow and public safety (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(A)). 
• 
Eliminates all owner-occupancy requirements by local agencies for ADUs approved between January 1, 
2020 and January 1, 2025 ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(6)). 
• 
Prohibits a local agency from establishing a maximum size of an ADU of less than 850 square feet, or 
1,000 square feet if the ADU contains more than one bedroom and requires approval of a permit to build 
an ADU of up to 800 square feet ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (c)(2)(B) & (C)).

--- page 106 ---
5 
• 
Clarifies that when ADUs are created through the conversion of a garage, carport or covered parking 
structure, replacement off-street parking spaces cannot be required by the local agency (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(D)(xi)). 
• 
Reduces the maximum ADU and JADU application review time from 120 days to 60 days (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(3) and (b)). 
• 
Clarifies that “public transit” includes various means of transportation that charge set fees, run on fixed 
routes and are available to the public (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(10)). 
• 
Establishes impact fee exemptions and limitations based on the size of the ADU. ADUs up to 750 square 
feet are exempt from impact fees (Government Code Section 65852.2, Subdivision (f)(3)); ADUs that are 
750 square feet or larger may be charged impact fees but only such fees that are proportional in size (by 
square foot) to those for the primary dwelling unit (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (f)(3)). 
• 
Defines an “accessory structure” to mean a structure that is accessory or incidental to a dwelling on the 
same lot as the ADU (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(2)). 
• 
Authorizes HCD to notify the local agency if HCD finds that their ADU ordinance is not in compliance with 
state law (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (h)(2)). 
• 
Clarifies that a local agency may identify an ADU or JADU as an adequate site to satisfy RHNA housing 
needs (Gov. Code § 65583.1, subd. (a), and § 65852.2, subd. (m)). 
• 
Permits JADUs even where a local agency has not adopted an ordinance expressly authorizing them 
(Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(3), (b), and (e)). 
• 
Allows a permitted JADU to be constructed within the walls of the proposed or existing single-family 
residence and eliminates the required inclusion of an existing bedroom or an interior entry into the single-
family residence (Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(4); Former Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(5)). 
• 
Requires, upon application and approval, a local agency to delay enforcement against a qualifying 
substandard ADU for five (5) years to allow the owner to correct the violation, so long as the violation is not 
a health and safety issue, as determined by the enforcement agency (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (n); 
Health and Safety Code § 17980.12). 
 
AB 587 (Friedman), AB 670 (Friedman), and AB 671 (Friedman) 
In addition to the legislation listed above, AB 587 (Chapter 657, Statutes of 2019), AB 670 (Chapter 178, Statutes 
of 2019), and AB 671 (Chapter 658, Statutes of 2019) also have an impact on state ADU law, particularly through 
Health and Safety Code Section 17980.12. These recent pieces of legislation, among other changes, address the 
following: 
• 
AB 587 creates a narrow exemption to the prohibition for ADUs to be sold or otherwise conveyed 
separately from the primary dwelling by allowing deed-restricted sales to occur if the local agency adopts 
an ordinance. To qualify, the primary dwelling and the ADU are to be built by a qualified nonprofit 
corporation whose mission is to provide units to low-income households (Gov. Code § 65852.26). 
• 
AB 670 provides that covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) that either effectively prohibit or 
unreasonably restrict the construction or use of an ADU or JADU on a lot zoned for single-family 
residential use are void and unenforceable (Civil Code Section 4751).

--- page 107 ---
6 
• 
AB 671 requires local agencies’ housing elements to include a plan that incentivizes and promotes the 
creation of ADUs that can offer affordable rents for very low, low-, or moderate-income households and 
requires HCD to develop a list of state grants and financial incentives in connection with the planning, 
construction and operation of affordable ADUs. (Gov. Code § 65583; Health and Safety Code § 50504.5)

--- page 108 ---
Provided below are the results of the poll conducted during the Community Workshop: Accessory 
Dwelling Units/Junior Accessory Dwelling Units Ordinance Update Discussion events held on June 24 
and June 26, 2021. 
A combined total of 65 attendees participated in the two virtual workshops. Not all of the attendees 
participated in taking the poll. Two demographic poll questions were asked to help understand the 
relationship the attendees have with the San Mateo community and to understand what their interest 
in ADUs. The remaining nine poll questions focused on aspects of ADU and JADU development where 
the City still has remaining discretion. The questions were posed under the general categories: building 
height, architecture & design, size standards, and parking.
Each of the nine presented poll questions include the discussion prompt used by staff to lead into each 
poll question for added context. The individual poll results are provided in table form with each 
respective question. The answer choice that was selected the most is bolded and highlighted in grey. 
Please note, poll questions which allowed the respondent to select multiple answers (i.e., select all that 
apply) include the total number of respondents in the table. 
INITIAL AUDIENCE DEMOGRAPHIC POLL QUESTIONS
1.
What is your relationship to the community? (select all that apply)
a.
Resident of San Mateo
b.
Have family in San Mateo
c.
Would like to live in San Mateo
d.
None of the above
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
Total Respondents
a.
39
48
b.
10
48
c.
0
48
d.
7
48
2.
What is your interest in in ADUs? (select all that apply)
a.
Already have an ADU
b.
Interested in building an ADU
c.
Have concerns about ADU
d.
Information gathering 
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
Total Respondents
a.
2
48
b.
30
48
c.
5
48
d.
23
48
JUNE 24 & 26, 2021, ADU/JADU WORKSHOP POLL QUESTION RESULTS

--- page 109 ---
BUILDING HEIGHT
Discussion: The state requires local agencies to allow for ADUs of at least 16 feet in height. However, it does not 
specify how that height is measured nor does it mandate that two-story ADUs must be permitted, 
leaving that up to the determination of the local agency. In San Mateo, building height is measured 
from existing grade to the top of the highest plate line. Additionally, our R1 and R2 zoning districts also 
have a maximum structural height limit which is measured from grade to the top of the roof peak (i.e., 
the highest point of the roof).
Poll Question #1: What should be the maximum building height for a detached ADU? (select one) 
a.
16 feet to top plate line/24 feet to roof peak (maintains the state’s minimum requirement, but 
allows for a second-floor or loft with certain designs) 
b.
Less than what is allowed for a single-family home in the R1 and R2 zoning districts, but more 
than the state’s minimum requirement (e.g., 20 feet to top plate line/28 feet to roof peak)
c.
24 feet to top plate line/32 feet to roof peak (the same maximum height allowed for a single-
family home in our R1 and R2 zoning districts) 
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
31
b.
12
c.
16
ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN
Discussion: The state law mandates that ADUs are processed ministerially through a building permit process. While 
ADUs are exempt from Planning Commission review or any other discretionary process, it does allow 
for objective architectural standards to be imposed. Some examples from our existing local ADU 
ordinance which can still be imposed include offsetting windows from neighboring property windows 
to maximize privacy and requiring ADUs to be constructed of the similar exterior materials and finishes 
as the primary residence (show existing Architectural Standards). 
Poll Question #2: What design features of a detached ADU should match the primary home? (select all 
that apply)
a.
Roof form 
b.
Exterior materials
c.
Exterior color palette 
d.
Architectural style (e.g., modern, ranch, Craftsman, et cetera)
e.
Window sizes, frame styles, and trim 
f.
None (detached ADUs should not be required to match the design of the primary home)
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
Total Respondents
a.
18
58
b.
18
58

--- page 110 ---
c.
22
58
d.
27
58
e.
11
58
f. 
29
58
Poll Question #3: Which of the following objective design standards for two-story detached ADUs 
should be required to limit privacy impacts on neighboring properties? (select all that apply) 
a.
Windowsill heights for second story windows located within 4-feet of side and rear property 
lines can be no less than 5 feet in height
b.
Obscured glazing (permanent) for second story windows located within 4-feet of side and rear 
property lines
c.
No balconies or decks on the second-floor, immediately facing adjacent properties when built 
within 4 feet of the side or rear yard property line
d.
No objective design standards should be imposed
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
Total Respondents
a.
27
56
b.
24
56
c.
40
56
d.
12
56
SIZE STANDARDS
Discussion:   Currently, state law specifies attached ADUs are permitted to be up to 50% of the size of the primary 
home, provided the city allow an ADU of least 850 sq. ft., or at least 1,000 sq. ft. if it contains more 
than one bedroom.
Poll Question #4: The maximum size of an attached ADU should be (select one): 
a.
Allowed to be up to 50% the size of the primary home, or 1,000 sq. ft., whichever is greater, 
regardless of bedroom count
b.
Allowed to be up to 50% the size of the primary home, or up to 1,200 sq. ft. maximum
c.
Limited to 850 sq. ft. for a studio/one-bedroom, and 1,000 sq. ft. for more than one-bedroom 
(not percentage based)
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
8
b.
26
c.
21
Discussion:   The state allows cities to impose conditions on development scenarios when a detached ADU and a 
JADU are combined with a single-family dwelling on the same lot. The conditions allow the local agency 
to impose the following conditions on the detached ADU: 
I.
A total floor area limitation of not more than 800 sq. ft.

--- page 111 ---
II.
A height limitation of 16 feet
Poll Question #5: Which of the following should the City do? (select one)
a.
Impose both conditions (I and II)
b.
Impose only condition (I)
c.
Impose only condition (II)
d.
Do not impose either of the conditions
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
21
b.
1
c.
14
d.
22
Discussion:   Individual parcel sizes in San Mateo’s residential zoning districts can range greatly from 2,500 sq. ft. lots 
to up to three acres in size. State law specifies that a detached ADU can be up to a maximum of 1,200 
sq. ft. in size provided there is adequate floor area allowance remaining on the lot. 
Poll Question #6: The maximum size of detached ADU should be (select one):
a.
Up to 850 sq. ft. for studio/1-bedroom, or up to 1,000 sq. ft. for 2+ bedrooms
b.
Up to 1,000 sq. ft. regardless of bedroom count
c.
Default to the state’s established maximum size for detached ADUs (1,200 sq. ft.)
d.
Tiered based on lot size (e.g., up to 1,200 sq. ft. for lots 0-9,999 sq. ft. in size; up to 1,500 sq. ft. 
for lots 10,000 sq. ft. or greater in size; et cetera)
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
14
b.
2
c.
20
d.
23
PARKING
Discussion:   State law specifies required off-street parking associated with ADU development shall not exceed one 
parking space per ADU or per bedroom, whichever is less. However, state law provides several parking 
exemptions (shown on presentation slide) that exempt most residentially zoned properties in the City 
from having to provide off-street parking associated with ADU development. Additionally, state law

--- page 112 ---
eliminates the need for replacement off-street parking when a parking structure is either demolished 
or converted in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, as was previously required. 
Poll Question #7: Should the City exempt all ADU development from required off-street parking? (Yes 
or No)
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
31
b.
30
Discussion:   State law permits a property owner to develop their lot with both a JADU and ADU in addition to a 
single-family residence, the increase of dwelling units on a single lot may have a corresponding impact 
to on-street parking in residential neighborhoods. As such, additional on-site parking allowance may 
need to be considered to offset the potential impacts to on street parking. 
Poll Question #8: The City should consider which of the following parking allowances for properties 
being developed with either an ADU or JADU? (select all that apply)
a.
Allow parking in required setback areas including paved front, side, and rear yard areas
b.
Allow wider driveways to accommodate more vehicles on-site
c.
Allow tandem parking
d.
Do nothing
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
Total Respondents
a.
35
57
b.
37
57
c.
36
57
d.
10
57
Discussion:   JADUs may be created within the walls of a proposed or existing single-family residence, including 
attached garages. However, attached garages which are converted into JADUs are not subject to the 
replacement parking exemption ADUs are.
Poll Question #9: Should JADU conversions of attached garages be required to provide replacement 
parking? (Yes or No)
Answer Choice
Answer Selected
a.
27
b.
37

--- page 113 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: In favor of 24ft ht limit for ADUs
Date:
Friday, May 14, 2021 3:32:33 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk | City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7042 | polds@cityofsanmateo.org
 
From: Nina Nazarov Hambly 
 
Sent: Friday, May 14, 2021 10:33 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
Subject: In favor of 24ft ht limit for ADUs
 
Hello San Mateo City Council,
 
Thank you for your time to review public input and considering amending local regulations to have a
24 ft height limit for Accessory Dwelling Units. 
 
I am a licensed architect in California, and grew up in San Mateo. I attended Aragon High School and
then Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. San Mateo has always been a big part of my life. 
 
I've become aware that the City Council is considering adopting a 24 ft height restriction for ADU's.
This would be a height increase from the current regulations at 16 ft maximum height. I think that a
24 ft height limit is essential to providing an increase in the possibilities for ADU placement, decrease
the sacrifices a homeowner needs to make for siting and ADU, maintain a greater amount of
outdoor space, to create family ties, and aging in place.  
 
The City of San Mateo has established residential neighborhoods, and limited lot sizes.  Let's face it,
most properties don't have empty backyards in San Mateo where an 850 SF, or even 300 SF, unit can
easily be placed.  Most homes in San Mateo have mature landscaping, where homeowners take
pride and enjoy having. As an architect, I am sensitive to the way my clients use their homes,
including their gardens. A 24 ft vs 16 ft height limit can greatly increase the possibilities for siting an
ADU. Increasing the height limit to 24 ft would limit how many sacrifices a homeowner needs to
make to have a compact yet comfortable ADU. Additionally, it would create the possibility to
maintain more outdoor space. There are many proven psychological benefits to outdoor spaces. 
 
As an architect, I've seen numerous homeowners find that ADUs are the pathway to having 3
generations live comfortably on one property. It allows families to come together. Grandparents are
there for grandkids as they grow up.  Families can strengthen their bonds by living closely together.
It's also a huge benefit to have independent units between the generations. More than half of the

--- page 114 ---
ADUs that I have worked on are for families that will have 3 generations living on the property. The 3
generation model also allows aging in place to happen to a greater degree. People will feel
comfortable staying in their homes longer with family nearby, and just a few feet away. 
 
I think that a 24 ft height limit is essential to providing an increase in the possibilities for ADU
placement, decrease the sacrifices a homeowner needs to make for siting and ADU, maintain a
greater amount of outdoor space, to create family ties, and aging in place.   In my opinion, these are
just a few notable reasons why I support the height increase for ADUs. There are many others such
as stimulating the economy - something we are in much need of right now. Increasing the height
limit comes down to being able to create 2 stories which decreases the barrier and opens many
possibilities for siting ADUs.
Sincerely,
 
Nina Nazarov Hambly, AIA, NCARB
Architect, Hambly Homes Architecture
Office Hours: Tues -  Sat

--- page 115 ---
From:
James Wang
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
San Mateo ADU community input
Date:
Friday, May 28, 2021 11:32:31 AM
Hello Phillip,
I am a resident of San Mateo 
 and I would like to submit the following
comment as part of the city's reconsideration of ADU guidelines.
I believe we need to clear away as many barriers to building ADUs as possible to make
progress against the housing crisis and also to allow intergenerational housing to develop.
Personally, I have in-laws who would love to live on an ADU on our property and help out
with our young children, but current city regulations on ADUs make it difficult for us to
proceed. I would like to encourage the city's consideration of the following two changes:
1. Remove all height restrictions specific to ADUs, thereby putting ADUs under the same
zoning guidelines as the underlying zoning district. I don't believe there is any justification for
differential restrictions within a lot for particular structure types. If the main housing structure
is allowed to be three stories tall by zoning district rules, then an ADU should also be allowed
to be three stories tall.
2. Remove the setback requirement when building up on an existing structure. Current
ADU guidelines state that an ADU must be setback at least 4 feet from the property line, but
that this requirement is waived if converting an existing structure like a garage. HOWEVER,
if one were to build a second story on top of the existing structure, the setback requirements do
apply to the second story. This results in very awkward building design and increases building
and engineering cost significantly. We should encourage the preservation of garage spaces and
maximize the allowable second story ADU square footage. Therefore, I strongly encourage the
city to extend the waiver of the setback requirement to all vertical additions on top of an
existing structure.
Thank you for your consideration of these points.
James

--- page 116 ---
From:
LAURENCE KINSELLA
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ADU ordinance comment
Date:
Tuesday, June 22, 2021 3:07:59 PM
Dear Mr. Brennan,
If one were to look at possible examples of poor, added units planning, you might look at B
Street in Hayward Park. I've lived there since 1980.
Over time the serendipity of putting additional units on the east side of  B Street (R-4) in the
Hayward Park has become an example of poor planning. I don't think much of the residential
zoning district regulations are or were ever applicable to the east side of B...many are small
lots that are zoned R-4, haphazard rear yard setbacks of less than 15 feet, less than required lot
area per dwelling unit, no on-site parking in many of the dwellings etc....
Traffic and parking are serious issues along the length of  narrow, carriage curbed, B Street
from 9th to 16th and which will be made worse with all of the new and planned high density
development on both the north and south ends/areas of Hayward park. Added
residential/commercial zoning mixes make matters worse, especially during the daytime with
residents now having to apply for parking permits in their own residential areas. 
What I'm suggesting is to have a look at that particular situation, and maybe you would gleam
some ideas about what to do or not do in planning the City's new ADU ordinance.
Regards,
Laurence Kinsella

--- page 117 ---
From:
Ben Toy
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
Re: Community Survey: Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
Date:
Thursday, July 15, 2021 1:41:55 PM
Attachments:
image002.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
Hi Phillip,
Glad to hear from you.
While on planning...some comments other than ADU/JADU's
Our ordinances are outdated as most were drafted/approved in the 20th Century and we are
now 21 years into the 21st century
Human society is based on two main attributes....Change and growth for every measure of our
society has a growth/change attribute: GDP, inflation, stagnation, cost of living, population
growth or decline, etc.
Commute and parking are the main complaints, and not just in San Mateo. Ask them why they
think there is a commute & parking problem and most will not really know the root cause and
just complain...all the while refusing to allow designated, high density/TOD development of
new bedrooms. Bedrooms because most hearing housing, think R1, which is only a small
slice. As we are returning to become (already there) a renters' society, again. 
Bedroom from bedroom community way out there because of our restrictions here where their
jobs are.
Please keep an open mind on automated parking, which is the automotive equivalent of high
density bedrooms. Plus their cost has been coming down and the foot print no different than a
traditional 20th Century parking structure...just that robots store autos inches apart both
horizontally and vertically.
This is a link to one of my files working on jobs & bedroom development for clients. 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ssA_pdu25ggOb1F2j45RqTelRkPkWWil?
usp=sharing
San Mateo is small in reference to where these building are being built worldwide, but think
we can in a similar scale and hope to provide added stories if the developer employs tree
metrics.
We need both PW & Planning to move away from an LOS based metric and over to a
VMT/Form Based Code model
Thanks for this chance to speak...

--- page 118 ---
Ben....please excuse my fat finger typos
_______________________________________________________________________
PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual(s) or entity(s) to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If
you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying
of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in
error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and
delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
On Thu, Jul 15, 2021 at 1:06 PM Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hello:
 
The City of San Mateo is considering how to update local regulations to align with new state
laws, as well as develop accessory dwelling unit (ADU) standards that best address the
needs and concerns of our residents. Please take this survey to learn about the statewide
changes and share your feedback on issues such as maximum building size and height,
parking requirements and design standards. The survey results, along with feedback
gathered during two online workshops held this past June, will be shared with the Planning
Commission at its August 24, 2021, regular meeting, and with the City Council at its
September 7, 2021, regular meeting. The feedback will be used to help inform the
development of our new local regulations.
 
You can take the survey at https://www.opentownhall.com/10551   
 
*Please note, the survey will be closed on August 22, at 11:59 p.m.
 
Please feel free to contact me with any questions or comments-
Phillip B.
 
Phillip Brennan, AICP
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7218 | pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 119 ---
From:
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
Here it is again and hopefully all the print is the same.
Date:
Thursday, July 22, 2021 8:01:01 PM
I am totally against ADUs with the State mandates.  The City Council should push
back on the State about this and at least question some of the detailed requirements
that do not make sense for our community.  It is unreasonable and poor urban
planning with a tops down approach with no real understanding of each city's
needs/wants and intimate city details and issues.   It's like force fitting a square peg
into a round hole.  There are other better ways to deal with new housing.    
Parking
There should be some sort of onsite parking required for each ADU unit. For
example, if  two ADU's are added to a lot with one house on it, you could have  two or
more vehicles per housing unit and six or more vehicles requiring on site parking
spaces.  If a garage or driveway is used as an ADU that would eliminate  parking
spaces.    In some neighborhoods street parking is already very crowded, especially
when guests visit.  In areas where there is permit street parking, how will that be
handled? 
Privacy
There should be restrictions to protect the neighbors privacy with two story units and
require that windows do not face neighbors property.  Also, walkway entrance to the
ADUs  needs to be considered (set back) so as not to impact neighbors.  
Architecture Integrity. 
Any additions should be architecturally similar to the existing structures   Also, these
units should be restricted to backyards and not in the front of the house or driveway. 
 Stricter standards should be given to setback from neighbors property.    And ADU
roof planes should not compromise daylight for a neighbors housing units. 
Rentals
A lot of these ADU's will be going into single family neighborhoods zoned R1    If any
units are going to be rented then there should be strict rules around this that are more
strict than any state and city regulations regarding noise, trash, parking.   Also, the
main house should also be under these rules if that is rented as well.    
Neighbors Review
Before ADUs are built there needs to be a notification and review of the plans by
neighbors that could be impacted. 
Taxes
There should be an added city tax placed on these units in addition to property taxes
if they are rented out.  This money could be put to good use by the city.

--- page 120 ---
From:
Bobbi Maniscalco
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ADU
Date:
Sunday, July 25, 2021 9:07:05 AM
Phillip Brennan,
I am concerned about the impact of allowing ADU without restrictions would cause to my 
house, neighborhood and the city of San Mateo. 
If homeowners decide to build an ADU, the neighbors should be given more details and 
have some input on how these will be constructed like height, size, setbacks, front and 
backyards, parking etc. San Mateo already has a parking problem and this would cause a 
worst one. An R1 single family neighborhood should remain the same. This is not the 
answer to affordable housing in a city that is already overcrowded. 
Sincerely,
Barbara Maniscalco

--- page 121 ---
From:
Jill McHale
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ERROR IN YOUR FORM: Re: Community Survey: Community Survey: Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San
Mateo
Date:
Saturday, July 17, 2021 9:36:13 PM
Hi, your form includes a query that wasn’t addressed in the editing. Check out the final
response “should we offer this as an answer choice” —which you should, with a write-in
option. Because I would write in that all ADUs should be one story.

--- page 122 ---
state laws, as well as develop accessory dwelling unit (ADU) standards that best
address the needs and concerns of our residents. Please take this survey to learn about
the statewide changes and share your feedback on issues such as maximum building
size and height, parking requirements and design standards. The survey results, along
with feedback gathered during two online workshops held this past June, will be shared
with the Planning Commission at its August 24, 2021, regular meeting, and with the
City Council at its September 7, 2021, regular meeting. The feedback will be used to
help inform the development of our new local regulations.
 
You can take the survey at https://www.opentownhall.com/10551  
 
*Please note, the survey will be closed on August 22, at 11:59 p.m.
 
Please feel free to contact me with any questions or comments-
Phillip B.
 
<!--[if !vml]-->
<image002.png>
<!--[endif]-->Phillip Brennan, AICP
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7218 | pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
<image003.png>
 
<image004.png>
 
<image005.png>
 
<image006.png>
 
<image007.png>
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together
with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is
strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 123 ---
From:
Maggie Trinh
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ADUs
Date:
Thursday, July 22, 2021 2:53:15 PM
Hi Phillip, I wanted to write and express that I very much support building more housing in
San Mateo, including ADUs. Thank you for your work on this issue!
Maggie

--- page 124 ---
1 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in
San Mateo
August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Contents
i.
Introduction
2
ii.
Summary of responses
3
iii.
Survey questions
8
iv.
Individual responses
10

--- page 125 ---
Introduction
The City of San Mateo is looking to update its local accessory dwelling unit (ADU) regulations and needs your input! An
ADU is a secondary residential housing unit known by many different names, including "in-law unit," "casita," or
"guesthouse." ADUs can be built as a detached structure, attached to a single-family home, or be a conversion of an
existing space within a home or structure.
We are considering how to update local regulations to align with new state laws, as well as develop ADU standards that
best address the needs and concerns of our residents. Please take this survey to learn about the statewide changes and
share your feedback on issues such as maximum height and building size, parking requirements, and design standards.
This survey, along with feedback gathered during two online workshops held in June, will be shared with both the
Planning Commission and City Council as they consider the updated ADU Ordinance later this year.  
2 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 126 ---
Summary Of Responses
As of August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM, this forum had:
Topic Start
Topic End
Attendees:
452
July 15, 2021, 10:14 AM
August 23, 2021,  9:03 AM
Responses:
233
Hours of Public Comment:
11.7
QUESTION 1
What is your relationship to community? (select one)
%
Count
a. Resident of San Mateo
83.3%
194
b. Have family in San Mateo
7.7%
18
c. Would like to live in San Mateo
6.0%
14
d. None of the above
3.0%
7
QUESTION 2
What is your interest in ADUs? (select all that apply)
%
Count
a. Already have an ADU
6.9%
16
b. Interested in building an ADU
36.5%
85
c. Have concerns about ADUs
37.3%
87
d. Information gathering
40.8%
95
3 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 127 ---
QUESTION 3
Which of the following should be the maximum building height for a detached ADU (select one)?
%
Count
a. A low height that meets the state's minimum
height requirement but allows for a second-
floor/loft with certain designs (ex: 16 feet to top
plate line/24 feet to roof peak)
38.3%
88
b. Less than than what is allowed for a single-family
home, but more than the state’s minimum
requirement (ex: 20 feet to top plate line/28 feet to
roof peak)
15.7%
36
c. Same maximum height allowed for a single-
family home (24 feet to top plate line/32 feet to
roof peak)
34.8%
80
d. Other
11.3%
26
QUESTION 4
For new detached ADUs, which design features should be required to match with the primary home? (select all
that apply)
%
Count
a. Roof form
39.8%
90
b. Exterior materials
42.5%
96
c. Exterior color palette
40.7%
92
d. Architectural style (e.g., modern, ranch,
Craftsman, etc.)
48.2%
109
e. Window sizes, frame styles, and trim
31.0%
70
f. None (detached ADUs should not be required to
match the design of the primary home)
46.5%
105
QUESTION 5
4 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 128 ---
For new two-story detached ADUs, which of the following objective design standards should be required to
address potential privacy impacts on neighboring properties? (select all that apply)
%
Count
a. Windowsill heights for second-story windows
must be no less than 5 feet in height when located
within 4 feet of side and rear property lines and
facing neighboring properties
40.5%
92
b. Obscured glazing (permanent) for second story
windows located within 4-feet of side and rear
property lines
41.4%
94
c. Second-story decks or balconies cannot face
adjacent properties when built within 4 feet of side
and rear property lines
64.3%
146
d. No objective design standards should be
imposed
24.7%
56
Other
12.3%
28
QUESTION 6
What should the maximum size of an attached ADU be? (select one)
%
Count
a. Up to 50% of the size of the primary home or
1,000 sq. ft., whichever is greater
21.4%
49
b. Up to 50% the size of the primary home, or up to
1,200 sq. ft. maximum
31.0%
71
c. Up to 850 sq. ft. for a studio/one-bedroom, and
up to 1,000 sq. ft. for two or more bedrooms (not
percentage based)
47.6%
109
QUESTION 7
What should be the maximum size of a detached ADU? (select one)
%
Count
a. Up to 850 sq. ft. for studio/1-bedroom, or up to
1,000 sq. ft. for 2+ bedrooms
36.0%
82
5 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 129 ---
%
Count
b. Up to 1,000 sq. ft. regardless of bedroom count
6.1%
14
c. Default to the state's established maximum size
for detached ADUs (1,200 sq. ft.)
20.6%
47
d. Tiered based on lot size (ex: up to 1,200 sq. ft.
for lots 0-9,999 sq. ft. in size; up to 1,500 sq. ft. for
lots 10,000 sq. ft. or greater in size; etc.)
37.3%
85
QUESTION 8
Which of the following should the City do? (select one)
%
Count
a. Impose both conditions (I and II), limiting the
detached ADU to a maximum of 800 sq. ft. in size
with a maximum height of 16 feet
47.8%
109
b. Impose only condition I, limiting the detached
ADU to a maximum 800 sq. ft. in size
5.3%
12
c. Impose only condition II, limiting the detached
ADU to a maximum height of 16 feet
10.1%
23
Do not impose either of these conditions
38.6%
88
QUESTION 9
Should the City exempt all ADU development from required off-street parking? (select one)
%
Count
Yes
41.7%
96
No
58.3%
134
QUESTION 10
Which of the following off-street parking design options for properties building an ADU or JADU be considered?
6 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 130 ---
(select all that apply)
%
Count
a. Allow parking in required setback areas,
including paved front, side, and rear yard areas
49.8%
110
b. Allow wider driveways to accommodate more
vehicles on-site
53.8%
119
c. Allow tandem parking
52.9%
117
d. Maintain current off-street parking standards
38.5%
85
QUESTION 11
Should JADU conversions of attached garages be required to provide replacement parking? (Yes or No)
%
Count
Yes
50.4%
114
No
49.6%
112
7 | www.opentownhall.com/10551
Created with OpenGov | August 23, 2021,  9:27 AM
Changing ADU Housing Regulations in San Mateo
The City is in the process of updating its accessory dwelling unit (ADU) ordinance to align with the new state laws
and is seeking your input on new rules that will regulate the development of ADUs in San Mateo.

--- page 131 ---
1. “2 story ADUs should not be allowed” 
2. “Second story could be slightly offset from the first story to alter window alignment.” 
3. “Taller fences” 
4. “There should be NO two-story â€œADUâ€ s.” 
5. “No windows on second floor, only skylights” 
6. “Overall comment:  I am concerned that ADUs will result in crappy hosing stock and will deter 
more substantive (and better) development.  Iâ€™d prefer to allow the market to permit 
demolition and rebuilding of better and better-designed housing stock.” 
7. “The available options are biased and limited aspects of the ADU's. How about some real input 
selections? What about heights limitations and existing solar access regs?  Off-street parking 
isn't fully fleshed out under these proposed ADU design standards.” 
8. “Exceptions should be permitted based on lot slope.   For example, a rear protperty line ADU on 
a downslope lot may not have privacy impacts.   A prescriptive standard could be too 
restrictive.” 
9. “ADU should not be in the front, they should be in the back of the main house” 
10. “Four feet from property line is too close to begin with! Eight feet more reasonable.” 
11. “ADU’s should NOT be in the front, they should be in the back of the main house!” 
12. “neighbors should be invited to look at designs before ADU is built. This would help catch any 
objections.”  
13. “ADUs should be one story only.” 
14. “I DO NOT support two story ADUs” 
15. “Two story detached ADUs should have a much larger setback (say 10 ft) to preserve privacy and 
sunlight plane. Otherwise, a two-story ADU could prevent a neighbor's vegetable garden from 
having enough sunlight.” 
QUESTION #5 
A total of 28 respondents selected “other” as one of the answer choices to survey Question #5. 
Selecting “other” allowed the respondent to provide a custom write-in answer. Provided below is an 
unedited summary of those custom write-in answers.

--- page 132 ---
16. “neighbor's adu negatively impacts my view, privacy, prop value. Hvac unit sits on property line, 
so will be bothered by another noise hum. I understand the need for housing, but not enough 
has been done to protect existing properties” 
17. “should only be one story, to protect neighbor privacy” 
18. “No unobstructed views of neighbors property if within 4ft of property line” 
19. “Offset windows so ADU window not adjacent to neighboring windows” 
20. “don’t want ADU’s” 
21. “Don’t really know. I would need to see examples.” 
22. “Only allow single story ADUs” 
23. “No two story ADUs” 
24. “Second story windows must meet fire code, for maximum height from the floor, for emergency 
exit.” 
25. “Do not want two-story ADUs” 
26. “Against have ADUs parking issues already” 
27. “Standards should be consistent to what is existing for other types of multi-family construction.” 
28. “ADU should not block the sun from neighboring yards and thus may need tp be much less than 
16' in height” 
 
Please note, survey Question #3 also provided “other” as an answer choice. Unfortunately, 
there was error when the survey launched that removed the ability of a respondent to input a 
custom answer choice. Staff worked with the survey vendor but was not able to resolve the 
issue.

--- page 133 ---
From: James Isaacs 
  
Sent: Sunday, August 22, 2021 6:34 PM 
To: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height limits for Accessory Dwelling Units 
Hi Phillip! 
We have not met.  My name is James Isaacs and I live at 
, San 
Mateo.   My wife and I have lived in San Mateo since 1989 and raised our family here. 
I wanted to reach out and say "thank you for all you do for the city".  We have a clean, 
well run city that we can all be proud of. 
I had heard about the possible changes to the ADU rules being considered.  I think it's 
great that we find ways to fit more people into our wonderful city given all of the housing 
cost issues we face here.  But I do think it is a requirement that we make this expansion 
happen while respecting the aesthetics and design of each neighborhood.  I think we 
have to: 
-- Limit height to the 16 feet required by state law, otherwise we could have ADUs 
looking into the backyards of others. 
-- Adopt design standards that are sensitive to the close proximity some units have to 
property lines.  If someone is allowed to build right up to the property line it could affect 
the 'livability' of a neighbor's house. 
-- One size does not fit all....and make sure perhaps that we vary it by neighborhood 
wherever possible.  It is possibly the case that what might work in one neighborhood 
would not work in another due to design . 
Thanks for your time and thanks for all you do for San Mateo! 
Best Regards 
James Isaacs 
Item #3
Comment #1

--- page 134 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
RECOMMENDATION –DRAFT ADU/JADU ORDINANCE
(PA-2021-004) 
AUGUST 24, 2021

--- page 135 ---
BACKGROUND
Feb. 9, 2021 – Planning Commission recommended approval of draft ADU 
Ordinance to City Council (4-1)
March 15, 2021 – Intro. of draft ADU Ordinance approved by City Council (4-1) 
April 5, 2021 – City Council took no action to adopt the ADU Ordinance

--- page 136 ---
PURPOSE
Review an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 in 
accordance with current state law and make a recommendation to the City 
Council.

--- page 137 ---
COMMUNITY OUTREACH EFFORTS 
Community Workshop Events (June 24 & 26)
-
Held on June 24 and 26 
-
65 total attendees (combined)
Online Community Survey 
-
Survey ran July 15 to Aug. 22
-
Sent to more than 2,850 email addresses
-
452 visits; 233 completed surveys

--- page 138 ---
COMMUNITY OUTREACH
Demographic Questions
-
Primarily residents of San Mateo
-
Interested in information gathering and building an ADU
-
Many others had concerns about ADUs
Targeted Questions
-
Poll/Survey Questions re: building height, architecture & design, 
size standards, and parking

--- page 139 ---
SIZE STANDARDS
Attached ADUs
Detached ADUs
-
Up to 1,200 sq. ft. 
-
No bedroom count requirement
-
Not based on size of primary dwelling (i.e., ≤ 50%)
-
Tiered based on lot size: Up to 1,200 sq. ft. for lots < 10,000 sq. ft.; 
up to 1,500 sq. ft. for lots ≥ 10,000 sq. ft
-
No bedroom count requirement

--- page 140 ---
ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN STANDARDS



--- page 141 ---
ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN STANDARDS
Architectural Compatibility 
-
No architectural compatibility/matching requirements on detached ADUs
-
ADUs attached to detached structures must provide 
cohesive/uniform design 
-
Attached ADUs required to match architectural style and materials of 
primary residence

--- page 142 ---
ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN STANDARDS



--- page 143 ---
ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN STANDARDS
Objective Design Standards
-
Windows sills no less than 5’ tall when located within 4’ of side property line or 
15’ of rear property line
-
Cannot locate second-story stairway landing facing side/rear property lines 
except to provide the minimum requirements for ingress/egress
-
Second-story decks/balconies not associated with exiting requirements prohibited

--- page 144 ---
ADU BUILDING HEIGHT

\\|
| | | | \\ \

|
!

————————_—_—_———
6



--- page 145 ---
ADU BUILDING HEIGHT

BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance, measured
from existing grade to the highest plate line of the
structure directly above that point.

17' roof peak

PLATE LINE: The point where the top of the wall
assembly meets the roof structure.

10’ building
height



--- page 146 ---
PROPOSED MAXIMUM DETACHED ADU HEIGHTS

—|
|
/
f
yp ™
ff »
ff A an
, | »
18 minimum 27) ceases By < oy | a ——— |e
ADU height |
per state law |

| DOB
MEET TVET Tg ai Wh i 11 |
| — a
a. 16° Plate Height ' 24° Roof Peak b. 20' Plate Height / 28° Roof Peak c. 24' Plate Height! 32° Roof Peak



--- page 147 ---
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
One (1) off-street parking space per ADU or bedroom, whichever is less
Replacement parking no longer required
Parking exemptions
1) ADU is located within one-half mile walking distance of public transit
2) ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic district
3) ADU is part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an accessory structure
4) When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the occupant of the ADU
5) When there is a car share vehicle located within one block of the ADU

--- page 148 ---
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
ADU/JADU Parking Off-Street Parking Allowances
-
Up to one new voluntary parking space per ADU/JADU
-
Parking in paved setback areas 
-
Existing driveway can be maintained when garage converted
-
Driveway width for single-car garage can be expanded to 20 feet
-
Tandem parking allowed

--- page 149 ---
DISCUSSION ITEMS
What should be the max. size for ADUs (attached and detached)?
Should any objective architectural design standards be imposed on ADUs?
What objective design standards should be applied for two-story ADUs (i.e., to 
lessen privacy impacts)?
What should be the max. building height for ADUs (min. 16 feet)?

--- page 150 ---
27.19.050 (e)(1)(2)

(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 20 feet

to top plateline and 28 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade.



--- page 151 ---
QUESTIONS?

--- page 152 ---
REQUESTED ACTION
Review an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 –
“Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit” in accordance 
with current state law and make a recommendation to the City Council.