Cville Police Chief Kochis presents Flock Safety camera pilot project - Cville Right Now 55° Charlottesville Sections Latest News Crime Politics Sports Podcasts Newsletter Listen to News Radio WINA 98.9 FM and 1070 AM | Listen Live × Home News Local Business Crime Education Politics Weather Obituaries Trending Lifestyle CVille Right Now’s Local Experts Music Scene Food Scene Local Nonprofits Health & Wellness Deals Events Sports Best Seat in the House UVA WINA RADIO Program Schedule WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Podcasts Podcasts WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Ryal Thomas Radio Show Real Estate Matters Envision A Graceful Life Faith Programming Advanced Pain Management of VA About Submit a News Tip Advertise with Us Newsletter Signup Ethics Policy Contests Contest Rules Careers Contact Us Cville Police Chief Kochis presents Flock Safety camera pilot project By Jay Hart April 2, 2024 1:50 pm Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Courtesy City of Charlottesville CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA ( CVILLE RIGHT NOW ) – City Police Chief Michael Kochis says the Police Foundation is willing to fund a 1-year pilot program for what are called Flock Safety cameras… cameras that would take photos of mostly rear license plates available for police responses. Kochis in his report to City Council Monday night said there are a number of cases these 10 cameras in city entryways would be useful. “Amber alert, Silver alert, Blue alert… when those alerts occur, out officers will be alerted immediately.” “And we’ll be able to find that missing person, find that missing endangered adult, find that missing child.” Kochis added, “It’s also a valuable tool for solving shootings, robberies, and stolen vehicles.” Kochis said 85% of gun violence in the city involves a vehicle in some way, and outlined a couple of examples — such as the murder last year on Elliewood — where these cameras could have helped in an earlier apprehension. He also noted finding vehicles involved, and solving cases more quickly, helps alleviate the issues of retaliation we see among perpetrators of gun violence. He says no one can be pulled on a Flock hit alone… there must be other ample evidence for that to happen. Click here to see the presentation documents. Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Jay Hart Jay Hart is a news reporter with CvilleRightNow.com. Reach him by email at jhart@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or call 434-977-6397. Story © 2024 Saga Communications|WINA More in Charlottesville City Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest Editor's Picks State Supreme Court strikes down redistricting referendum Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Trending A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Albemarle County increases pay for police officers by 11% Top Stories Local 21 hours ago State Supreme Court strikes down redistricting referendum The court ruled that the state’s Democratic-led legislature violated procedural requirements when it placed the constitutional amendment on the ballot. Politics 19 hours ago Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Figures from across the political aisle and across the Commonwealth weighed in on the decision, reacting along party lines. Surrounding Counties 14 hours ago West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Randolph Scott Garr has been indicted on four counts, and was taken into custody Friday. Local 20 hours ago Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest The free, family-friendly event will be at the Rivanna River Company this Saturday from 2:30-9 p.m. UVA Sports 21 hours ago A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run The Cavaliers host Georgetown on Sunday night in the first round of the NCAA tournament. Charlottesville Media Group 1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903 Tel: 434-220-2300 About Careers Advertise with Us Ethics Policy Our Use of AI Stay Connected Newsletter Signup Download Our App Submit News Contact Us Quick Links Cville Local Deals Charlottesville’s Finest Local Experts Contest Rules EEO Report FCC Public File For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use AI Use Policy Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com © Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc , All rights reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.