--- page 1 ---
 55°
Charlottesville
Cville Police Chief Kochis presents Flock
Safety camera pilot project
By Jay Hart April 2, 2024 1:50 pm
| Courtesy City of Charlottesville
Sections
Latest News
Crime
Politics
Sports
Podcasts
Newsletter
|
 Listen Live

--- page 2 ---
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA (CVILLE RIGHT NOW) – City Police Chief Michael Kochis says the Police
Foundation is willing to fund a 1-year pilot program for what are called Flock Safety
cameras… cameras that would take photos of mostly rear license plates available for police
responses. Kochis in his report to City Council Monday night said there are a number of
cases these 10 cameras in city entryways would be useful.
“Amber alert, Silver alert, Blue alert… when those alerts occur, out officers will be alerted
immediately.”
“And we’ll be able to find that missing person, find that missing endangered adult, find that
missing child.”
Kochis added, “It’s also a valuable tool for solving shootings, robberies, and stolen
vehicles.”
Kochis said 85% of gun violence in the city involves a vehicle in some way, and outlined a
couple of examples — such as the murder last year on Elliewood — where these cameras
could have helped in an earlier apprehension. He also noted finding vehicles involved, and
solving cases more quickly, helps alleviate the issues of retaliation we see among
perpetrators of gun violence.
He says no one can be pulled on a Flock hit alone… there must be other ample evidence for
that to happen. Click here to see the presentation documents.

--- page 3 ---
Jay Hart
Jay Hart is a news reporter with CvilleRightNow.com. Reach him by email at
jhart@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or call 434-977-6397.
Story © 2024 Saga Communications|WINA
More in Charlottesville City
Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world
wine region
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to
voting maps
Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River
at RiverFest
Editor's Picks
State Supreme Court strikes down redistricting referendum
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to
voting maps

--- page 4 ---
West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal
activity with minors
Trending
A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep
spring run
West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal
activity with minors
Albemarle County increases pay for police officers by 11%
LOCAL
21 hours ago
State Supreme Court strikes down redistricting referendum
The court ruled that the state’s Democratic-led legislature violated procedural requirements when it placed the
constitutional amendment on the ballot.
POLITICS
19 hours ago
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps
Figures from across the political aisle and across the Commonwealth weighed in on the decision, reacting
along party lines.
SURROUNDING COUNTIES
14 hours ago
West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with
minors

--- page 5 ---
Randolph Scott Garr has been indicted on four counts, and was taken into custody Friday.
LOCAL
20 hours ago
Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest
The free, family-friendly event will be at the Rivanna River Company this Saturday from 2:30-9 p.m.
UVA SPORTS
21 hours ago
A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run
The Cavaliers host Georgetown on Sunday night in the first round of the NCAA tournament.

--- page 6 ---
Charlottesville Media Group
1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903
Tel: 434-220-2300
About
Careers
Advertise with Us
Ethics Policy
Our Use of AI
Stay Connected
Newsletter Signup
Download Our App
Submit News
Contact Us
Quick Links
Cville Local Deals
Charlottesville’s Finest
Local Experts
Contest Rules
Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com
EEO Report
FCC Public File
For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC
Applications
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
AI Use Policy
Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts

--- page 7 ---
g
py g
p
© Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc, All rights reserved.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.