--- page 1 ---
 84°
Charlottesville
Chief Kochis curtails Flock and Peregrine
use
After hearing citizen complaints, Charlottesville Police Chief Mike Kochis
announced he is not using one piece of new technology the city has approved
and has curtailed the use of another in policing the city.
By Jay Hart June 18, 2025 1:55 pm
Sections
Latest News
Crime
Politics
Sports
Podcasts
Newsletter
|
 Listen Live

--- page 2 ---
Source: Metro Services Photographer: Courtesy Metro Services | fiber optics

--- page 3 ---
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA (CVILLE RIGHT NOW) – After hearing citizen complaints, Charlottesville
Police Chief Mike Kochis announced he is not using one piece of new technology the city has
approved and has curtailed the use of another in policing the city.
“We are pausing Peregrine,” Kochis told the City Council this week. “We aren’t going to be
using it at this point,” he said about the data integration system for which City Council
approved a $150,000 grant for a pilot project.
Peregrine is a data organizational system that allows law enforcement to view data from
multiple sources in one platform, making information more accessible and – the company
touts on its website – actionable.
Critics have expressed concerns over the past month about data protection since CPD
announced its plans to use the system. Some worry the data integration system could be
manipulated to provide data for questionably legal purposes.
Kochis has advocated using Peregrine because there are numerous inquiries for information
CPD either cannot provide, or it’s very labor intensive to provide, because there is currently
no integrated data systems. An example he’s used is being asked how many crashes in the
city involves bikes.
The chief has also informed the community that CPD has disconnected the Flock camera
system from sources outside the city. Critics of the license-plate reader system cite reports
from, for example, the 404 Media podcast of a Texas police officer who used license plate
data nationwide to find a woman who had an abortion. Detractors of the system worry that
it could become part of a nationwide AI system used to track people who have not
committed crimes.
Kochis maintains the Flock system has been key in helping solve many violent crime cases,
including being instrumental in investigations of the last two weekends’ Downtown Mall
shootings. So, Kochis announced this week that while the Flock system remains in use, it’s
data is only available to local personnel. The data cannot be accessed by anyone else in the
state, and CPD cannot access Flock data elsewhere.
For the Peregrine system, Kochis said, “Maybe down the road we can do it and have other
ways of doing those things, then we’ll continue to look for those solutions.”

--- page 4 ---
Jay Hart
Jay Hart is a news reporter with CvilleRightNow.com. Reach him by email at
jhart@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or call 434-977-6397.
Story © 2025 Saga Communications - Images © 2025 Metro Services
More in Charlottesville City
CCS elevates Jackson-Via interim principal to
permanent post
Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world
wine region
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to
voting maps
Editor's Picks
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to
voting maps
Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother's
Day weekend

--- page 5 ---
Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world
wine region
Trending
Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world
wine region
Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother's
Day weekend
Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River
at RiverFest
POLITICS
2 days ago
Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps
Figures from across the political aisle and across the Commonwealth weighed in on the decision, reacting
along party lines.
ALBEMARLE COUNTY
1 day ago
Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother’s Day weekend
The biannual event, now in its 46th year, will be back at Crozet Park this Saturday and Sunday.
LOCAL
1 day ago
Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region
Olive Oil Flights owner says olive oil has different qualities on the palate just like wine does

--- page 6 ---
LOCAL
2 days ago
Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest
The free, family-friendly event will be at the Rivanna River Company this Saturday from 2:30-9 p.m.
UVA SPORTS
2 days ago
A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run
The Cavaliers host Georgetown on Sunday night in the first round of the NCAA tournament.

--- page 7 ---
Charlottesville Media Group
1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903
Tel: 434-220-2300
About
Careers
Advertise with Us
Ethics Policy
Our Use of AI
Stay Connected
Newsletter Signup
Download Our App
Submit News
Contact Us
Quick Links
Cville Local Deals
Charlottesville’s Finest
Local Experts
Contest Rules
Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com
EEO Report
FCC Public File
For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC
Applications
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
AI Use Policy
Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts

--- page 8 ---
g
py g
p
© Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc, All rights reserved.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.