Police Chief Kochis says city technologically behind and not catching up anytime soon - Cville Right Now 42° Charlottesville Sections Latest News Crime Politics Sports Podcasts Newsletter Listen to News Radio WINA 98.9 FM and 1070 AM | Listen Live Support the CMG Cares For Kids radiothon benefitting UVA Health Children's × Home News Local Business Crime Education Politics Weather Obituaries Trending Lifestyle CVille Right Now’s Local Experts Music Scene Food Scene Local Nonprofits Health & Wellness Deals Events Sports Best Seat in the House UVA WINA RADIO Program Schedule WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Podcasts Podcasts WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Ryal Thomas Radio Show Real Estate Matters Envision A Graceful Life Faith Programming Advanced Pain Management of VA About Submit a News Tip Advertise with Us Newsletter Signup Ethics Policy Contests Contest Rules Careers Contact Us Police Chief Kochis says city technologically behind and not catching up anytime soon Charlottesville Police Chief Mike Kochis, who just returned from a conference with local leaders and law enforcement from across the Commonwealth were sharing crime data with each other, and he told WINA's Morning News there's no question "we are so far behind in this city when it comes to technology and the way we aggregate and bring together data". By Jay Hart September 18, 2025 10:27 am Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Contributed Courtesy City of Charlottesville CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA ( CVILLE RIGHT NOW ) – Charlottesville Police Chief Michael Kochis, who just returned from a conference with local leaders and law enforcement from across the Commonwealth were sharing crime data with each other, told WINA’s Morning News there’s no question, “we are so far behind in this city when it comes to technology and the way we aggregate and bring together data.” He said even though scrutiny of technological use by police — including the Flock license plate reader and Peregrine integrated data system – is not unique to Charlottesville, this community is indeed different. “Warrenton’s going through it with the Flock conversation up there,” Kochis said of the town where he was chief before coming to Charlottesville. “There were people from Norfolk, Portsmouth, Richmond and other cities struggling with these things, and the data they’re using, the systems they’re using, one of which is Peregrine… they were connecting their data showing how many people served through the human services dashboard, looking at their crime dashboard, and connecting all this stuff.” While Kochis has said he has a job to do and will do it within the parameters of those charged with making decisions and funding initiatives, that doesn’t mean he’s not sometimes frustrated. “I have my opinions about why we’re that far behind, but I don’t see us getting ahead anytime soon when it comes to that,” he said. Kochis noted Portsmouth, Norfolk, Richmond, Alexandria, and other localities that employ Peregrine and Flock technologies have progressive governments. In fact, some City Councilors at that conference expressed surprise that Charlottesville has suspended Peregrine for now and limited its Flock program. “You know, I assume there’s a reason why our policymakers feel that way,” Kochis said. “And I don’t want to discount it because people have lived experiences, people have a reason why they feel that way, and so I respect that. We’re just different.” One important thing to remember, Kochis said, is “policing is very local.” “It’s got to be unique to your individual community,” he said. Kochis talked about spending one day with Fairfax County’s police chief and getting a look at their real-time crime center with hundreds of Flock cameras as they’re preparing drone first-responders. But Kochis said, “It really is about what your community expects, and that’s how this works.” Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Jay Hart Jay Hart is a news reporter with CvilleRightNow.com. Reach him by email at jhart@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or call 434-977-6397. Story © 2025 Saga Communications|WINA - Images © 2025 Contributed More in Charlottesville City 11th annual 'Cares for Kids' radiothon to benefit UVA Health Children's CCS elevates Jackson-Via interim principal to permanent post Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Editor's Picks Pres. Scott Beardsley says work is underway on new strategic vision for UVA 11th annual 'Cares for Kids' radiothon to benefit UVA Health Children's Democrats ask Supreme Court to halt Virginia ruling against new voting maps Trending UVA lacrosse's wild ride ends with NCAA tourney loss to Georgetown ACPS appoints two new principals for Agnor Elementary, WAHS, for new school year Pres. Scott Beardsley says work is underway on new strategic vision for UVA Top Stories UVA 19 hours ago Pres. Scott Beardsley says work is underway on new strategic vision for UVA Beardsley told Cville Right Now the hope is to have the plan completed in about a year. Local 17 hours ago 11th annual ‘Cares for Kids’ radiothon to benefit UVA Health Children’s Stories will be told throughout from families who’ve experienced UVA Health Children’s care news 14 hours ago Democrats ask Supreme Court to halt Virginia ruling against new voting maps Democrats on Monday filed an emergency appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court seeking to halt a Virginia ruling invalidating a ballot measure that would have given their party an additional four winnable U.S. House seats. Surrounding Counties 17 hours ago VDH confirms Central Virginia measles case in Buckingham Co. The infected child had not traveled, spurring concern that there could be more, unreported cases locally. Education 14 hours ago ACPS appoints two new principals for Agnor Elementary, WAHS, for new school year Western Albemarle High School appoints the former head of William Monroe Middle in Greene, while Agnor Elementary’s assistant principal gets a promotion. Charlottesville Media Group 1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903 Tel: 434-220-2300 About Careers Advertise with Us Ethics Policy Our Use of AI Stay Connected Newsletter Signup Download Our App Submit News Contact Us Quick Links Cville Local Deals Charlottesville’s Finest Local Experts Contest Rules EEO Report FCC Public File For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use AI Use Policy Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com © Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc , All rights reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.