Council Gives Verbal Support for Flock Camera Continuation After Charlottesville Police Chief Report - Cville Right Now 82° Charlottesville Sections Latest News Crime Politics Sports Podcasts Newsletter Listen to News Radio WINA 98.9 FM and 1070 AM | Listen Live × Home News Local Business Crime Education Politics Weather Obituaries Trending Lifestyle CVille Right Now’s Local Experts Music Scene Food Scene Local Nonprofits Health & Wellness Deals Events Sports Best Seat in the House UVA WINA RADIO Program Schedule WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Podcasts Podcasts WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Ryal Thomas Radio Show Real Estate Matters Envision A Graceful Life Faith Programming Advanced Pain Management of VA About Submit a News Tip Advertise with Us Newsletter Signup Ethics Policy Contests Contest Rules Careers Contact Us Council Gives Verbal Support for Flock Camera Continuation After Charlottesville Police Chief Report All City Councilors present, except Natalie Oschrin, expressed satisfaction with the new Flock camera program at Monday night's meeting following a presentation by Police Chief Mike Kochis about the first six months of its operation. By Jay Hart February 4, 2025 1:22 pm Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Unsplash CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA (CVILLE RIGHT NOW) – All City Councilors present, except Natalie Oschrin, expressed satisfaction with the new Flock camera program at Monday night’s meeting following a presentation by Police Chief Mike Kochis about the first six months of its operation. Councilor Michael Payne was absent. Kochis provided an update, outlining the successes the cameras have contributed to in solving crimes. The cameras are designed to capture only images of license plates, not of people inside the vehicles. Kochis shared that Charlottesville has one of the most, if not the most, restrictive Flock camera policies in the Commonwealth, and he’s perfectly fine with that. Data is stored for seven days, and the system is audited monthly by both CPD and the executive director of the Police Civilian Oversight Board. Kochis said the system has been used to recover multiple stolen vehicles, which he emphasized is important since many people rely on their vehicles to go to work. He also noted that the cameras have been critical in the arrests related to two Hardy Drive shootings and were used to locate a missing Summit Elementary School student. Kochis mentioned that the cameras helped locate a homicide suspect in another jurisdiction who was in Charlottesville and have been useful in the investigation of Charlottesville’s first homicide of 2025, though an arrest has not been made. While he cannot discuss specific cases, he said the cameras have been valuable in all the city’s shooting investigations. Though there was no formal vote, City Manager Sam Sanders gauged the Councilors’ stance on continuing the cameras’ use. Mayor JuanDiego Wade and Vice Mayor Brian Pinkston expressed unequivocal support for their continued use, while Councilor Lloyd Snook said he’s “cautiously optimistic.” Snook voiced concerns about potential civil liberties challenges posed by the cameras but expressed satisfaction with the city’s guardrails ensuring that the cameras are effective “without being overly intrusive.” Natalie Oschrin refrained from taking a position, instead asking questions about when the one-year camera renewal began. She also suggested that increased use of alternative modes of transportation could reduce the need for such a program to address car thefts. Oschrin reminded Councilors that vehicles are often associated with many instances of violence in the area. Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Jay Hart Jay Hart is a news reporter with CvilleRightNow.com. Reach him by email at jhart@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or call 434-977-6397. Story © 2025 Saga Communications - Images © 2025 Unsplash More in Charlottesville City Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest Editor's Picks Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother's Day weekend Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Trending West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Top Stories Politics 1 day ago Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Figures from across the political aisle and across the Commonwealth weighed in on the decision, reacting along party lines. Albemarle County 7 hours ago Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother’s Day weekend The biannual event, now in its 46th year, will be back at Crozet Park this Saturday and Sunday. Local 9 hours ago Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Olive Oil Flights owner says olive oil has different qualities on the palate just like wine does Local 1 day ago Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest The free, family-friendly event will be at the Rivanna River Company this Saturday from 2:30-9 p.m. UVA Sports 1 day ago A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run The Cavaliers host Georgetown on Sunday night in the first round of the NCAA tournament. Charlottesville Media Group 1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903 Tel: 434-220-2300 About Careers Advertise with Us Ethics Policy Our Use of AI Stay Connected Newsletter Signup Download Our App Submit News Contact Us Quick Links Cville Local Deals Charlottesville’s Finest Local Experts Contest Rules EEO Report FCC Public File For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use AI Use Policy Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com © Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc , All rights reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.