Flock CEO includes Charlottesville, Staunton in email blaming activists for cities dropping the company’s services - Cville Right Now 59° Charlottesville Sections Latest News Crime Politics Sports Podcasts Newsletter Listen to News Radio WINA 98.9 FM and 1070 AM | Listen Live × Home News Local Business Crime Education Politics Weather Obituaries Trending Lifestyle CVille Right Now’s Local Experts Music Scene Food Scene Local Nonprofits Health & Wellness Deals Events Sports Best Seat in the House UVA WINA RADIO Program Schedule WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Podcasts Podcasts WINA Morning News The Schilling Show Cville Right Now Live Best Seat in the House Ryal Thomas Radio Show Real Estate Matters Envision A Graceful Life Faith Programming Advanced Pain Management of VA About Submit a News Tip Advertise with Us Newsletter Signup Ethics Policy Contests Contest Rules Careers Contact Us Flock CEO includes Charlottesville, Staunton in email blaming activists for cities dropping the company’s services Charlottesville Police Chief Michael Kochis said Flock Safety's CEO sent an "unprofessional" email blaming activists for multiple departments' decisions to end their relationships with the company. By Dori Zook December 30, 2025 9:58 am Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Cville Right Now Clip Art CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA ( CVILLE RIGHT NOW ) – Charlottesville Police Chief Michael Kochis described an email from Flock Safety’s CEO blaming political activists for multiple cities decisions to stop using the company’s license plate reading camera system as inappropriate and “pouting.” “People have a right to disagree and have issues with things,” Kochis told Cville Right Now. “That’s how Democracy works. That’s how this is supposed to work. We have open dialogue about issues and concerns and at the end of the day communities get to have a say on how they want to be policed. And to say that’s not okay, i think just flies in the face of our values.” Kochis said every client of Flock received the email. He said he didn’t respond, in part because he rarely deals directly with vendors and in part because the city’s decision has already been made. “That email was sent to every client that they had, including us,” Kochis said. “I looked at it and just, honestly, chalked it up to an unprofessional email from a venting CEO. I just ignored it, I’ll be honest.” Charlottesville is one of a number of cities that have decided to opt out of using Flock’s ALPR cameras to help combat crimes such as car jackings or finding missing people. Opponents have expressed concerns over the possibility of outside agencies accessing the city police department’s information it gathers from Flock. City Manager Sam Sanders announced the city’s decision during his regular report to City Council during its Dec. 15 session. Chief Kochis respects worries over how Flock Safety’s systems could be used, or potentially misused. Kochis noted that Charlottesville’s policy during its pilot program with Flock limited access to the information, restricting it only to the city’s use with no access for other jurisdictions or entities. But Kochis said once the community and City Council decided to end the program, there was no need for further debate. Staunton announced earlier this month it too was abandoning Flock . The city then shared an email exchange from Dec. 8 between Flock CEO Garrett Langley and Staunton Police Chief Jim Williams in which Langley wrote, “Flock has never been hacked. Ever. Flock is CJIS compliant. Flock does not share, or resell your data. Nor have we ever. Flock adheres to the highest security standards.” The email went on to say, “Flock is building tools to help you fight the real crime affecting communities across the country. Many activists don’t like that. Let’s call this what it is: Flock, and the law enforcement agencies we partner with, are under coordinated attack. The attacks aren’t new. You’ve been dealing with this for forever, and we’ve been dealing with this since our foundina, from the same activist groups who want to defund the police, weaken public safety, and normalize lawlessness. Now, they’re producing YouTube videos with misleading headlines. They’re also trying to turn a public records process into a weapon against you and against us.” The city of Staunton issued a news release explaining why the city ended its relationship with Flock and referencing Langley’s message. “Flock Safety CEO’s narrative does not reflect the city’s values,” the city statement said. Langley did not respond to a request for comment from Cville Right Now. The list of cities that have ended their relationships with Flock or have serious misgivings is sizeable. Flagstaff , AZ, unanimously decided to end its contract on Tuesday after outcry from the community. Cambridge , MA, issued a statement on its decision terminate its contract on Dec. 10. In Oregon, Eugene and Springfield announced their end of using Flock camera usage. A lawsuit has been filed in Norfolk, VA. The Texas Department of Public Safety is investigating Flock Safety for failure to maintain proof of liability insurance. There are other cancellations and controversies, as well. A YouTube search will pull up scores of videos regarding Flock Safety, the grand majority of which are negative. There are reports of issues that go beyond municipalities’ use of Flock Security. 404 Media reports that data is being used by ICE. According to the Electric Frontier Foundation , documents and court records show that Texas deputies used Flock Safety’s surveillance data in an abortion investigation. Johnson County Sheriff Adam King has repeatedly denied the ALPR search was related to enforcing Texas’s abortion ban. Flock Safety called media accounts “false,” “misleading” and “clickbait.” Facebook X More LinkedIn Email SMS Dori Zook Dori Zook is a reporter at NewsRadio WINA and CvilleRightNow.com. She can be reached at dzook@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com or by phone at 434-977-6397. Story © 2025 Saga Communications - Images © 2025 Saga Communications More in Crime West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Albemarle County increases pay for police officers by 11% ACPD arrests wanted Crozet man after Thursday evening pursuit Editor's Picks Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother's Day weekend Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Trending A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run West Virginia man indicted in Fluvanna County for criminal activity with minors Albemarle County increases pay for police officers by 11% Top Stories Politics 21 hours ago Supreme Court of Virginia restores previous 5th District to voting maps Figures from across the political aisle and across the Commonwealth weighed in on the decision, reacting along party lines. Albemarle County 2 hours ago Crozet Arts & Crafts Festival returning for Mother’s Day weekend The biannual event, now in its 46th year, will be back at Crozet Park this Saturday and Sunday. Local 3 hours ago Local entrepreneur champions olive oil flights in top world wine region Olive Oil Flights owner says olive oil has different qualities on the palate just like wine does Local 22 hours ago Local organizations set to celebrate Rivanna River at RiverFest The free, family-friendly event will be at the Rivanna River Company this Saturday from 2:30-9 p.m. UVA Sports 23 hours ago A back-to-the-basics fall has UVA lacrosse eyeing a deep spring run The Cavaliers host Georgetown on Sunday night in the first round of the NCAA tournament. Charlottesville Media Group 1140 Rose Hill Drive Charlottesville, VA 22903 Tel: 434-220-2300 About Careers Advertise with Us Ethics Policy Our Use of AI Stay Connected Newsletter Signup Download Our App Submit News Contact Us Quick Links Cville Local Deals Charlottesville’s Finest Local Experts Contest Rules EEO Report FCC Public File For assistance accessing public files, contact pfhelp@charlottesvilleradiogroup.com | FCC Applications Privacy Policy Terms of Use AI Use Policy Advisory Public Notice - Non-Discriminatory Ad Contracts Some images copyright AP, Clipart.com © Copyright 2026 Saga Communications, Inc , All rights reserved. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.