Opinion: Los Gatos should keep its ALPR cameras | Los Gatan | Los Gatos, California Facebook Instagram Twitter News Featured Local News Business Education Submit a Letter Community Arts + Entertainment Columns Tales of the Town Guides Local Scene Photos Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Sponsored Content Sports Best of Los Gatos Best of Ballot Best Of Arts & Entertainment Best Of Families & Pets Best Of Food & Drink Best Of Goods & Services Best Of Health & Beauty Obituaries Current Obituaries Submit a Los Gatos Obituary What to Include in Your Los Gatos Obituary Obituaries Calendar Upcoming Events Submit an Event Promote Your Event Place an Ad Media Kit Sponsored Content Public Notices / Legals Contact Login E-edition Subscribe Contact Search NewsPaper Your Local News Leader 60.7 F Los Gatos Translate October 2, 2026 E-edition Subscribe Contact Have an Article Idea? Advertise Facebook Instagram Los Gatan Your Local News Leader News Featured Local News Business Education Court Crime Submit a Letter Community Arts + Entertainment Columns Tales of the Town Local Scene Photos Guides Opinion Editorials Letters to the Editor Guest View Op-ed Sponsored Content Sports Best of Los Gatos Best of Ballot Best Of Arts & Entertainment Best Of Families & Pets Best Of Food & Drink Best Of Goods & Services Best Of Health & Beauty Obituaries Current Obituaries Submit a Los Gatos Obituary What to Include in Your Los Gatos Obituary Obituaries Calendar Upcoming Events Submit an Event Promote Your Event Place an Ad Media Kit Sponsored Content Public Notices / Legals Contact Search Article Search Opinion Opinion: Los Gatos should keep its ALPR cameras Adam Mayer October 2, 2026 12 Adam Mayer. (Submitted) The recent debate over automated license plate reader technology, including Flock cameras, has generated significant opposition at Los Gatos Town Council meetings. As a longtime resident who grew up in Los Gatos, I would like to offer a different perspective. Los Gatos is consistently rated one of the safer communities in our region. I would like to keep it that way. Maintaining public safety requires giving our Police Department effective tools to prevent and investigate crime. I believe the Town should retain its existing ALPR network and consider expanding it where there is a demonstrated public safety need. This discussion is particularly important in the context of the potential expansion of police services into neighboring Saratoga. If the Los Gatos-Monte Sereno Police Department ultimately takes on responsibility for serving a larger geographic area and population, it will be more important than ever that officers have the technology and resources necessary to investigate crime effectively and maintain public safety across the communities they serve. We can look to San Francisco for evidence of how this technology can help. In a recent San Francisco Examiner commentary, Supervisor Matt Dorsey highlighted the dramatic decline in vehicle break-ins following San Francisco’s deployment of a citywide ALPR network. Reported theft-from-vehicle incidents fell from 19,841 in 2023 to fewer than 5,400 in 2025, a 73 percent reduction. While ALPRs may not account for the entirety of that decline, the strong correlation between their deployment and the reduction in smash-and-grab thefts provides compelling evidence that this technology can be an effective tool for law enforcement. ‘We should be careful about taking our community’s safety for granted’ Los Gatos has fortunately never experienced property crime on the scale San Francisco has. But that is precisely why we should be careful about taking our community’s safety for granted. I was particularly struck by some of the recent testimony from younger residents opposing the cameras. Having grown up in Los Gatos myself, I understand how easy it is to grow up in a safe community and assume that level of security is simply the natural state of things. I probably lacked some of that broader perspective at the same age. Public safety does not perpetuate itself. It requires continued investment, effective policing and appropriate tools. There are legitimate concerns about privacy and misuse, and those concerns deserve safeguards. The recent case involving a San Jose police officer who improperly accessed Flock data and provided information to a relative involved in a domestic violence case is a disturbing example. But the officer was terminated, and San Jose subsequently tightened access to sensitive law enforcement systems and strengthened auditing procedures. That incident demonstrates why strong access controls, auditing, transparency and meaningful consequences for misuse are essential. It does not demonstrate that the technology itself should be abandoned. This does not need to be a choice between privacy and public safety. Los Gatos can establish strong safeguards for ALPR technology while allowing our Police Department to use a valuable tool to protect the community. And if our police department is preparing to serve an even larger area, now is not the time to unnecessarily limit the tools available to its officers. *Adam Mayer is a Los Gatos Planning Commissioner but writes here as a private individual. The piece has been lightly edited. TAGS ALPR Flock Safety LGMSPD op-ed public safety Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin WhatsApp Email Print Previous article Meet the 6 candidates competing for 3 Los Gatos Council seats Adam Mayer RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR Los Gatos Art & Wine Fest delights with music, painting and food Former Los Gatos Poet Laureate awarded Perugia Press Prize for first book Op-Ed: A view inside the Los Gatos Anti-Racism Coalition’s Rental Assistance Program LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Please enter your comment! Please enter your name here You have entered an incorrect email address! Please enter your email address here Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Please sign me up for the newsletter Yes No SOCIAL MEDIA 1,892 Fans Like 4,465 Followers Follow 486 Followers Follow BEST OF LOS GATOS SUBSCRIBE Print Edition Newsletters INFORMATION Contact Us Letter to the Editor Press Release Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ethics and Corrections Policy Plaques & Banners ADVERTISING Advertise NEWS Featured Local News Business Education COMMUNITY Columns Photos OBITUARIES Obituaries OPINION Editorials Letters to the Editor SPORTS Local Sports CALENDAR All Upcoming Events Today's Events Submit an Event Promote Your Event SPONSORED LINKS Central Coast Ace Hardware Astraport Tables ADVERTISING Public Notices / Legals Fictitious Business Name (FBN) Statements Doing Business As (DBA) Notices Trustee Sale Notices WEB DEVELOPMENT & DIGITAL MEDIA Website Design Hosting Website Optimization (SEO) Social Media Management Sponsored Content Analytic Evaluation Newsletter Marketing WEB DEVELOPMENT & DIGITAL MEDIA Website Design Hosting Website Optimization (SEO) Social Media Management Sponsored Content Analytic Evaluation Newsletter Marketing OUR PUBLICATIONS Aptos Life Good Times Santa Cruz Los Gatan Metro Silicon Valley Morgan Hill Times Pajaronian Press Banner South Valley OUR PUBLICATIONS Alt Weeklies East Bay Express Good Times Santa Cruz Metro Silicon Valley North Bay Bohemian Pacific Sun Community Weeklies Gilroy Dispatch Healdsburg Tribune Hollister Free Lance King City Rustler Los Gatan Morgan Hill Times Press Banner (Scotts Valley) Salinas Valley Tribune The Pajaronian (Watsonville) Tri-City Voice (Fremont) Magazines Bay Area Parent Bohème Cannabis Chronicle East Bay South Valley COMPANY INFO Job Opportunities Journalism Awards ©Weeklys All Rights Reserved. FOLLOW US Facebook Instagram Twitter Support Local Journalism MORE STORIES Meet the 6 candidates competing for 3 Los Gatos Council seats October 1, 2026 Wild Casino Sister Sites: Best Sites Like Wild Casino October 1, 2026 Best Online Casinos That Accept Visa Gift Cards in the U.S. October 1, 2026