source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4436ef91254e2d9d6c5b1f993cc6278d837f750fa28fa6f98294826b98c369e2
pages: 1111
ocr_pages: 38
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
June 16, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: June 16, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 835 2406 0663    Passcode: 203331
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Agenda amended on June 13, 2025
Item 19: Agenda Report and Attachments
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
Juneteeth – Proclamation
2.
Leadership Council San Mateo – Presentation
3.
Fire Hazard Maps and Code – Presentation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
4.
Police Digital Forensic Analyst Classification and Reclassification — Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the job specification and salary range for the new classification Police Digital
Forensic Analyst and reclassify the incumbent in the Police Digital Forensic Specialist position to Police Digital
Forensic Analyst.
1 of 1111

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5.
Deputy Director of Public Works Job Specification Updates — Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the updates to the job specification of the Deputy Director of Public Works
position.
CEQA: The job specification updates are not subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which does
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
6.
2nd and El Camino Public Garage — Licensing Agreement
Approve a licensing agreement, substantially in the form presented, between the City of San Mateo and Sutter
Bay Hospital (dba Mills-Peninsula Medical Center) to permit use of 60 City-owned parking spaces on the 5th floor
of the 2nd Avenue and El Camino Real public garage for hospital staff parking.
CEQA: This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
use.(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
7.
Fiscal Year 2025-26 General Liability and Property Insurance — Purchase Authorization
Authorize a staff committee comprised of the City Manager, the Finance Director, and the City Attorney to select
the most cost-effective program to insure the City's general liability, property risks, and Library; and authorize the
City Attorney to execute all required documents to purchase the selected insurance for fiscal year 2025-26.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.))
8.
Fiscal Year 2024-25 Year-End Supplemental Budget Adjustments – Approval
Adopt a Resolution approving year-end supplemental budget adjustments for fiscal year 2024-25.
CEQA: This FY 2024-25 year-end budget adjustment report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
9.
Poplar Creek Golf Course Well Drilling Project — Contract Approval
Adopt a Resolution authorizing a transfer of $215,423 from the Golf Course Upgrades FY 18-19 Project (618280)
to the Golf Course Well Drilling Project (618278) for a total project budget of $718,794. Award a contract to
GeoCon Consultants, Inc. in the amount of $511,000; establish a 15 percent contingency reserve of $76,650 for a
total amount not to exceed $587,650; authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders up to the contingency amount.
CEQA: This award of contract is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065). In accordance with CEQA
Guidelines Section 15304, the underlying project of drilling a well is categorically exempt from CEQA because it
results in a minor alteration of land. The onsite retention ponds, which serve the irrigation system, will remain the
same size during this project. The new irrigation well will not exceed the previously approved water withdrawal
from the aquifer. It will only draw the amount of water needed to maintain the levels in the retention ponds.
2 of 1111

--- page 3 ---
10.
East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project – Construction Management Services Contract Award
Award a contract to 4LEAF, Inc. (Consultant) for construction management services for the East Hillsdale Park
Playground Improvements Project (Project); on a time and expense reimbursement basis for actual work
performed, in an amount of $200,000; authorize a contingency amount of $30,000, for a total amount not to
exceed $230,000; and authorize the Parks and Recreation Director to execute the contract, in substantially the
form presented.
CEQA: This contract for construction management services is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be
seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section
21065).
11.
East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure for awarding a purchase contract with
Miracle Playsystems (Vendor) for the purchase of playground equipment, for the East Hillsdale Park Playground
Improvements Project (Project) in the amount of $191,246.54; authorize a contingency amount of $19,124.65 for
a total amount not to exceed $210,371.19; and authorize the Parks & Recreation Director to execute the contract
in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.). The purchase of the play equipment by the city will not cause a physical change to the
environment.
12.
Citywide Median Island Mulching — Agreement
Approve an agreement with JetMulch, Inc., for the application of mulch to 153 median islands in the amount of
$326,727; authorize a 10 percent contingency of $32,627, for a total amount not to exceed $359,354; and
authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is exempt from CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that the application of mulch will
not have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)).
13.
Worker Resource Center and Amendment for 171 N Amphlett Blvd. – Operations and Lease Agreements
1. Adopt a Resolution appropriating $864,900 from the General Fund and General Fund Housing Set-Aside for
Samaritan House to operate the Worker Resource Center for three years, a three-year lease for the building at
171 North Amphlett Boulevard, and trash collection and miscellaneous maintenance costs for three years; 2.
Approve an agreement with Samaritan House to provide services to operate the Worker Resource Center, for a
three-year term, in the amount of $195,000 annually for a total amount of $585,000, and authorize the City
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented; and 3. Approve Amendment No. 2 to the
lease agreement with Sakai Family Partnership for the property at 171 North Amphlett Boulevard in the amount
of $279,900 and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5))
14.
Below Market Rental Rates, Sales Prices and Unit Community Priorities – Adoption
3 of 1111

--- page 4 ---
Adopt a Resolution to establish 2025 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing as required by
the City of San Mateo's Below Market Rate (BMR) housing program; and establish Community Priority for units
containing three or more bedrooms, which may allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for
units with more bedrooms as long as all other BMR program provisions are followed.
CEQA: The establishment of 2025 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing is not a project
subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment.
(Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
15.
Comprehensive Zoning Code Update Professional Services – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $926,846 from the Advanced Planning Fund to the Comprehensive Zoning
Code Update project, approve a professional services agreement with PlaceWorks to provide technical planning
support, community outreach and project management to complete the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update
project, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: The appropriation of funds and agreement approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the
environment.(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
16.
Public Use Easement Dedication Acceptance for Property Located at 200 N. Quebec Street – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to accept the grant of public use easement for pedestrian and vehicular parking access along
Monte Diablo Avenue for the property located at 200 N. Quebec Street in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: The acceptance of this easement dedication is not a project for CEQA because it can be seen with certainty
that it will not cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code 21065.)
17.
Humboldt Street Paving with the City of Burlingame – Cost Sharing Agreement
Approve a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Burlingame for the Paving of Humboldt Street in conjunction
with Burlingame's 2025 Street Resurfacing Project; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: ​Approval of this Cost Sharing Agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA, because the underlying
project within the City of San Mateo consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing,
or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical
features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)​ 
18.
Citywide Fire, Life, and Safety Inspection Testing and Maintenance Services — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a five-year agreement with APi
National Service Group, Inc. for inspection, testing, and maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety systems in
the amount of $591,375; approve a contingency reserve of $60,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency
amount.
CEQA: approval of an agreement for inspection, testing, and maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety systems
is exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance,
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.))
19.
Building Access Control System Maintenance — Agreement
4 of 1111

--- page 5 ---
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award an agreement to Edgeworth
Integration, LLC, DBA VAS Security Systems for Building Access Control System Maintenance in the amount of
$120,000; establish a contingency in the amount of $12,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute
the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
20.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Chemicals — Purchase Contracts Award
Award purchase contracts of chemical supplies necessary for Wastewater Treatment Plant operations to the
following chemical suppliers: 1) Univar Solutions USA LLC to supply sodium hypochlorite in the amount of
$1,455,820.00; sodium bisulfite in the amount of $285,134.63; sodium hydroxide in the amount of $457,985.51;
and citric acid in the amount of $55,689.50; 2) Pencco, Inc. to supply ferric chloride in the amount of
$496,272.38; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contracts in substantially the form
presented.
CEQA: The purchase of various chemicals to enable the treatment of wastewater at the City’s Wastewater
Treatment Plant is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a continuing maintenance activity involving the
purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2).)
21.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biosolids Hauling and Disposal — Contract Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 3 to an agreement with Synagro-WWT, Inc. for wastewater treatment plant
biosolids hauling and disposal services to exercise a one-year extension in the amount of $750,000, for a revised
total contract amount not to exceed $2,794,250; establish a contingency reserve of $100,000; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute future change orders and extensions within the contingency balance.
CEQA: This biosolids hauling and disposal is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
22.
Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System Maintenance and Improvement – Contract Change
Order
Approve a Resolution authorizing an alternative purchasing procedure to award an agreement to Enterprise
Automation, LLC in an amount not to exceed $125,000 for upgrading and maintaining the City’s Supervisory
Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system; establish a contingency reserve of $30,000; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented, execute change orders within
the contingency reserve.
CEQA: This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this
activity will have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology
support and improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment.(CEQA
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
23.
Water Quality Control Plant Supply of Liquid Emulsion Polymer – Contract Award
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award a contract to SNF Polydyne, Inc.
for the supply of liquid emulsion polymer in the amount of $548,973.94; establish a 10 percent contingency
reserve in the amount of $54,900; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
5 of 1111

--- page 6 ---
CEQA: This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because the purchase of liquid emulsion polymer to
maintain WWTP operations is a continuing maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA
Guidelines Sections 15378(b)(2).)
24.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Grit, Rag, and Scum Hauling and Disposal — Agreement
Approve an agreement with Compactor Management Company LLC, for Wastewater Treatment Plant grit, rag,
and scum hauling and disposal in the amount of $160,300; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
$40,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue amendments within the contingency reserve.
CEQA: This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
25.
Staff Augmentation Services for the Wastewater Treatment Plant — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 with waterTALENT LLC for staff augmentation services for the wastewater treatment
plant in the amount of $200,000, for a new total agreement amount of $699,000, and extending the term
through June 30, 2026; establish a $100,000 contingency reserve; and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency
amount.
CEQA: Approval of this amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that
there is no possibility that approval of an amendment to provide staff augmentation services may have a
significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
26.
Purchase of a Telehandler — Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a purchase contract to PAPE
Material Handling, Inc. for the purchase of a JLG 1055 Telehandler to facilitate Wastewater Treatment Plant and
Field Maintenance operations in the amount of $182,924.27; establish a contingency reserve amount of $7,000;
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement and any change orders within the contingency
amount.
CEQA: Adoption of a Resolution approving this purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a
continuing maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2).) In
addition, approval of this purchase contract is exempt from CEQA, in that it can be seen with certainty that there
is no possibility that the purchase of a telehandler to move material within the Wastewater Treatment Plant as
part of its normal operations and to support the City’s Field Maintenance Divisions may have a significant effect
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).))
27.
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Consulting Services — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the On-Call Professional Consultant Services Agreement with Carollo Engineers,
Inc. for Wastewater Treatment Plant-related services in the amount of $475,000, for a new total agreement of
$1,325,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented and to amend the agreement within the agreement amount.
CEQA: The proposed action is exempt from environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA), since entering on-call professional services agreements is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect significant physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).) In addition, on June 6, 2016, the City Council certified a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact
6 of 1111

--- page 7 ---
Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 2015032006), which serves as the primary environmental compliance document for
implementation of the Clean Water Program. On July 16, 2018, the City approved Addendum 1 to the Final PEIR,
and on April 15, 2019, approved Addendum 2. Any resultant capital improvement or operations and maintenance-
related projects resulting from the on-call professional consulting services shall be reviewed on an individual basis
or evaluated for consistency with the PEIR and Addenda.
28.
Marina Branch Public Library Restoration Project – Agreements
Approve an agreement with DL Falk Construction, Inc. for construction of the Marina Branch Public Library
Restoration Project in the amount of $5,405,000; establish a contingency reserve for said agreement in the
amount of $540,500; approve an agreement with Consor PMCM, Inc. for construction management services for
the Marina Branch Public Library Restoration Project in the amount of $824,900; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented, issue change orders as allowed by the
contract documents, and approve change orders within the construction agreement contingency amount.
CEQA: This approval of these Agreements is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.))
29.
Traffic Signal Modification at Poplar Avenue and Humboldt Street — Agreement
Approve an agreement with Phoenix Electric Company for construction of the Traffic Signal Modification at Poplar
Avenue and Humboldt Street in the amount of $367,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
$55,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the contingency reserve.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
30.
East 3rd Avenue Landfill Hydrogen Sulfide Monitoring – Agreement Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $95,000 from the unassigned balance of the Landfill Fund to the Public Works
operating budget; approve Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement with Stearns Conrad and Schmidt Consulting,
Inc. dba SCS Engineers for monitoring and reporting services for hydrogen sulfide at the landfill in the amount of
$57,650, for a new agreement total of $107,405; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $9,300; extend
the term of the Agreement until December 31, 2026; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
amendment in substantially the form presented and future amendments within the contingency amount.
CEQA: Approval of an amendment to the agreement with SCS for continued monitoring, reporting and
investigatory work at the East Third Avenue Landfill is exempt from CEQA review as information gathering,
because it consists of basic data collection, research, experimental management, and resource evaluation
activities which do not result in a serious or major disturbance to an environmental resource. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15306.) In addition, approval of a budget appropriation from an unassigned fund balance of the Landfill
fund to the Public Works Department operating budget is exempt from CEQA review, because it consists of a
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a
potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
31.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Mosquito Abatement – Agreement
Approve a three-year agreement with the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District for mosquito
monitoring and abatement at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not to exceed $45,000; establish a
7 of 1111

--- page 8 ---
contingency reserve of $5,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially
the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
32.
Hillsdale Caltrain Commuter Shuttle – Agreement
Approve a two-year agreement with Commute.org (Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance) for the Hillsdale
Caltrain Commuter Shuttle in the amount of $169,028; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of this agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that
there is no possibility that entering into an agreement with Commute.org to provide shuttle services will have a
significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
33.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Monitoring and Upgrade Project –
Contract Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order #3 with Technology Management Professionals dba TMPros, LLC in the amount
of $156,864 to monitor and maintain the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Network at the Wastewater
Treatment Plant for a revised total contract amount of $485,408; extend the term through June 30, 2026;
establish a contingency amount of $20,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders up to the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this
activity will have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology
support and improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment.(CEQA
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
34.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Centrifuge Parts, Service and Repair Services — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving the award of a three-year agreement with GEA Mechanical Equipment US, Inc.
(GEA) for parts, service, and repair services of centrifuges at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of
$600,000, with two, one-year options to extend at $200,000 each, for a potential not-to-exceed total agreement
amount of $1,000,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement and no-cost time
extensions in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of an agreement for WWTP centrifuge parts, service, and repair services is categorically exempt
from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing,
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or
topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15301.)
35.
Citywide Custodial Services — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 8 to the service agreement with Imperial Maintenance Services, Inc. for Citywide
Custodial Services to increase the agreement by $78,665.32, for a revised total agreement amount not to exceed
$6,499,300.54; extend the agreement term an additional month to July 31, 2025; establish a contingency reserve
in the amount of $8,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute Amendment No. 8 in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
8 of 1111

--- page 9 ---
CEQA: This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
36.
Bay Meadows Community Facilities District - Special Tax Levy Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the levy of special taxes for Fiscal Year 2025-26 for the Community Facilities
District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows).
CEQA: This community facilities special district tax is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
37.
City Council and Boards and Commission Rules and Procedures – Update
Approve the proposed amendments to the Rules and Procedures for both the City Council and Boards and
Commissions to reflect the direction provided by City Council, primarily regarding the Chapter on conduct of
Council Members and Commissioners.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
38.
Zoning Code Amendments and Below Market Rate Program Update — Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to address affordable housing compliance options,
planning application procedures, and set minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects; and
approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program to implement various
policies and programs established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle); and find that
the Ordinance and Resolution are exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183.
CEQA: The Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for General Plan 2040 analyzed new residential development of up
to 19,764 new housing units and growth around the City through 2040. On March 18, 2024, the City Council
certified the EIR. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, the
zoning amendment to modify housing development provisions and development standards (“Project”) is exempt
from further environmental review because the Project, which generally allows for more housing types to be
permitted uses in specific zoning districts and remove regulatory barriers from the zoning code, is consistent with
the anticipated land uses under the land use designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR
was certified...
39.
Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget, Capital Improvement Program, Gann Limit, and Capital Reserve Contribution –
Approval
9 of 1111

--- page 10 ---
Adopt Resolutions to approve the fiscal year 2025-26 operating and capital budgets, the 2025-30 Capital
Improvement Program, the fiscal year 2025-26 Gann appropriations limit, and a contribution to the Capital
Investment Reserve.
CEQA: This budget adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
40.
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee Increase for Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Adoption
Conduct a public hearing and adopt a Resolution to increase the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee by
2.4 percent to account for the annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) increase.
CEQA: This Council action adopting a Resolution to establish the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee rate
for Fiscal Year 2025-26 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government funding mechanism
or other government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may
result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
OLD BUSINESS
41.
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy — Policy Feedback
Receive an informational report on the "Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy" project and provide
direction on the policy pathways for inclusion in the final Sustainable Building Strategy.
CEQA: This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is
open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
10 of 1111

--- page 11 ---
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable
the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
11 of 1111

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9811
File ID: 25-9990
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department 
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025
SUBJECT:
Police Digital Forensic Analyst Classification and Reclassification — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the job specification and salary range for the new classification Police Digital Forensic 
Analyst and reclassify the incumbent in the Police Digital Forensic Specialist position to Police Digital Forensic Analyst.
BACKGROUND:
The Police Department requested that a classification study be conducted for the employee holding the Police Digital 
Forensic Specialist position, as the position had evolved. A third-party consultant conducted the study and recommended 
that the position Police Digital Forensic Specialist be changed to Police Digital Forensic Analyst, the job description be 
revised to ensure that it is accurate and reflects the duties currently being performed by the employee in the position, and 
the salary range of the Police Digital Forensic Analyst be equivalent to the Police Evidence Analyst at an annual rate of
$111,650.75 - $133,145.65. Additionally, a third-party consultant was hired to analyze whether the Police Digital Forensic 
Analyst position is exempt from Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime requirements and the recommendation was to 
classify the position as FLSA non-exempt.
The Police Department and Human Resources support the recommendations made by the consultants. Consequently, the 
Police Department requests approval to update the job specification for the classification of Police Digital Forensic 
Specialist to accurately reflect the duties of the incumbent, create a new FLSA non-exempt classification Police Digital 
Forensic Analyst, establish the salary range for the new classification at $111,650.75 - $133,145.65 annually, and reclassify 
the incumbent in the Police Digital Forensic Specialist position to Police Digital Forensic Analyst.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The salary range increase for the Police Digital Forensic Analyst classification will result in an additional cost of 
approximately $25,000 to the General Fund. There is only one (1) funded position. For the remainder of Fiscal Year 2024- 
25 the additional costs are immaterial and can be accommodated in the Police Department‘s operating budget. This new 
position will be incorporated into all future budgets.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These classification updates are not subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
12 of 1111

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A – Job Specification Police Digital Forensic Analyst 
Exhibit B – Merit Salary Schedule
Att 2 – Job Specification with tracked changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst 
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
13 of 1111

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2025)
APPROVING THE CLASSIFICATION UPDATES IN POLICE DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications 
must be approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes as detailed below are in response to Police Department’s 
requests to conduct a classification study on the Police Digital Forensic Specialist position to determine if 
the incumbent is performing the duties of a higher-level position; and
WHEREAS, the proposed job specifications for the classifications of Police Digital Forensic Analyst 
is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and the proposed salary range for the classification of Police Digital 
Forensic Analyst is attached hereto as Exhibit B; and all exhibits are incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the employee associations representing the impacted classifications have been 
informed of the classification updates and have not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
The classification updates are not subject to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)) because it can be seen with certainty that they will not cause a 
physical change in the environment; and
2.
The job specifications for the classification Police Digital Forensic Analyst attached hereto as 
Exhibit A; and 
3.
The salary range for the classification Police Digital Forensic Analyst attached hereto as Exhibit 
B; and
4.
The reclassification of the incumbent in the Police Digital Forensic Specialist position to the  
new classification Police Digital Forensic Analyst are approved.
14 of 1111

--- page 15 ---
Exhibit A
POLICE DIGITAL FORENSIC ANALYST
DEFINITION
Under general direction, to perform forensic examination and analysis of digital devices for police 
investigations; to assist in standard evidence collection practice; to ensure effective storage, 
maintenance, control of evidence and related computer forensic equipment and supplies; to 
maintain necessary data and statistics; and perform related duties as required.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This classification is responsible for performing a variety of non-sworn, advanced and highly 
specialized tasks related to examination of and collection of digital forensic evidence.  It is 
distinguished from other civilian police classifications by its primary responsibility for evaluating 
and analyzing digital forensic evidence.  
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives supervision from the Investigations Sergeant.
May provide lead direction to interns or other staff as necessary.  
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following:
Conduct forensic analysis, comparison and examination of evidence from mobile devices, 
computers and other digital devices for the purpose of police investigations.
Examine, disassemble, reassemble, evaluate, extract and interpret data from cell phones, smart phones, 
mobile devices, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, personal computers, servers, closed-circuit 
television (CCTV) systems, security equipment, vehicles, compact discs, digital video discs, DVR’s, 
gaming consoles, portable hard drives and related devices. 
Transfer data and evidence from evidentiary items to other forms of media for presentation to sworn 
personnel, court, and for long term storage as evidence, ensuring proper evidentiary protocols are 
followed.
Prepare and maintain statistical and operational logs, records, databases, and other files according 
to department policies; prepare written reports on analysis completed and communicate findings.
Collect, preserve, label, catalog, and store evidentiary items for presentation in criminal 
proceedings in accordance with legal standards.
Track all evidentiary devices and performs audits of property and evidence. 
15 of 1111

--- page 16 ---
Prepare digital evidence for owner release or disposal.
Assist by providing on-scene forensic examination of evidence from mobile devices, computers 
and other digital devices when search warrants are being served.
Maintain records and prepare reports detailing findings and investigative methods for digital 
forensic examinations.
Research and evaluate new technical developments in digital forensic examination and analysis of 
digital evidence.
Maintain a consistent and current understanding of laws and technology in the areas of digital 
forensics and other areas of responsibility and recommend changed in policies and procedures 
consistent with laws. 
Perform crypto-currency tracking. 
Serve as primary point of contact between the Police Department and US Secret Service Electronic 
Crimes Task Force.
Maintain and ensure operability of computer forensic equipment.
Represent the Department at community meetings and with other agencies on issues relating 
cybercrime and computer and network safety.
Prepare evidence displays and testify in court as an expert witness in computer/digital forensics.
Provide file information to authorized personnel.
Train new employees in legal requirements, department policies and procedures as they relate to 
digital forensic evidence collection.
Perform administrative and law enforcement support activities as designated. 
Assume responsibility for ensuring the duties of the position are performed in a safe, efficient 
manner.
Perform related duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Crime scene forensic investigation procedures.
Operating systems, intrusion, and computer forensic tools.
Forensic science as it applies to the collection and preservation and handling of evidence.
16 of 1111

--- page 17 ---
Methods and techniques used in the identification, collection and preservation of digital 
forensic evidence.
Photographic techniques, equipment, and documentation used in crime scene photography.
Rules and procedures of providing testimony in court.
Programs used in the digital examination of evidence such as Cellebrite, and other computer 
applications related to the work, including word processing and commonly used law enforcement 
databases.
California Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and other Codes, regulations, policies 
and procedures related to the tasks to which assigned.
Advanced mobile device recovery techniques such as JTAG and Chip-off is highly 
desirable. 
Applicable Federal, State, and local criminal and civil laws, codes, and regulations. 
Principles and practices of electronic data storage, data encryption, and computer security 
systems.
Ability to:
Use current methods and techniques of digital evidence collection, recognition, identification, 
comparison and verification.
Effectively examine and analyze computer hardware, software, and electronically stored data 
pertaining to law enforcement.
Safely collect, handle, transport, process, secure, and store digital evidence. 
Find and extract electronically stored information to be used as evidence. 
Perform complex digital evidence recovery and analysis work.
Operate office equipment including computer information systems to include digital 
processing, database inquiry and word processing.
Effectively testify as an expert witness in court.
Work cooperatively with other law enforcement organizations and federal agencies.
Maintain confidentiality with classified and sensitive information.
Review and process evidence which may be disturbing in nature.
Maintain the integrity of evidence and chain of custody in accordance with established 
guidelines.
17 of 1111

--- page 18 ---
Prepare accurate written reports; maintain accurate and legible logs and records.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Work in a safe manner, following safety practices and procedures, model and coach others in 
correct procedures.
Maintain confidentiality.
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities is qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities 
would be:
Experience:
Two years of experience performing police-related duties specifically related to digital 
evidence technology related to computer forensics including some experience with handling of 
evidence, evidence collection and processing.
Training:
A Bachelor’s of Arts or Science degree from an accredited college in administration of justice, 
evidence technology, computer science or related field.
Licenses and Certificates:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California Driver’s License and a satisfactory driving record.
Possession of or ability to obtain ENCE certification from ENCASE, and certification to use Cellebrite 
highly desirable
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Must be able to work a flexible schedule including emergency call-in, overtime with extended 
hours, call-back, shift-work, nights, holidays, and weekends to accommodate investigatory needs.
Must be able to perform work in a variety of locations to include on-site work at crime scenes, and 
in the Police Department. Work is performed in indoor and outdoor environments. When work is 
performed outdoors, there is full exposure to the elements. The incumbent may be exposed to 
related health hazards to include blood and other bodily fluids/products, infectious diseases, human 
borne parasites, air, water, and blood borne pathogens, and may have contact with complete and/or 
partial human corpses in various stages of decomposition. Other health hazards may include odors, 
toxic chemicals, and hazardous substances. Occasionally, work is performed within confined areas 
or at high altitudes, including photography from helicopters. Physical demands include some 
ability to stand, walk, bend, lift, and reach. May be required to independently work crime scene 
investigations either without supervision or without sworn police presence. Incumbents must be 
18 of 1111

--- page 19 ---
able to meet the physical requirements of the class and have mobility, vision, hearing and dexterity 
levels appropriate to the duties to be performed.
ADOPTED CC: 
11-8-17, 06-02-25
REVISED CC: 
FORMER TITLES: 
POLICE DIGITAL FORENSIC SPECIALIST
BARGAINING UNIT:
MANAGEMENT UNIT
FLSA:
NON-EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT-MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:      
YES
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY  
FORM 700:
NO
DMV RECORD:
YES
JOB CODES:
5286
ABOLISHED: 
19 of 1111

--- page 20 ---
Exhibit B
City of San Mateo – Merit Salary Schedule for Adoption by Council on June 2, 2025
Police Digital Forensic Analyst (job code 5286)
Steps
Hourly
Biweekly
Monthly
Annual
STEP 1
53.6782
4,294.2600
9,304.2300
111,650.7500
STEP 2
56.0937
4,487.5000
9,722.9100
116,674.9700
STEP 3
58.6180
4,689.4400
10,160.4500
121,925.3700
STEP 4
61.2558
4,900.4700
10,617.6800
127,412.1500
STEP 5
64.0123
5,120.9900
11,095.4700
133,145.6500
20 of 1111

--- page 21 ---
POLICE DIGITAL FORENSIC SPECIALISTANALYST
DEFINITION
Under general direction, to perform forensic examination and analysis of digital devices for police 
investigations; to assist in standard evidence collection practice; to ensureing effective storage, 
maintenance, control of evidence and related computer forensic equipment and supplies; to maintain 
necessary data and statistics; and perform related duties as required.
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This classification is responsible for performing a variety of non-sworn, advanced and highly 
specialized tasks related to examination of and collection of digital forensic evidence.  It is 
distinguished from other civilian police classifications by its primary responsibility for evaluating and 
analyzing digital forensic evidence.  
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED
Receives supervision from the Investigations Sergeant.
May provide lead direction to interns or other staff as necessary.  
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES - Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, 
the following:
Conduct forensic analysis, comparison and examination of evidence from mobile devices, computers 
and other digital devices for the purpose of police investigations.
Examine, disassemble, reassemble, evaluate, extract and interpret data from cell phones, smart phones, 
mobile devices, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, personal computers, servers, closed-circuit 
television (CCTV) systems, security equipment, vehicles, compact discs, digital video discs, DVR’s, 
gaming consoles, portable hard drives and related devices. 
Transfer data and evidence from evidentiary items to other forms of media for presentation to sworn 
personnel, court, and for long term storage as evidence, ensuring proper evidentiary protocols are 
followed.
Prepare and maintain statistical and operational logs, records, databases, and other files according to 
department policies; prepare written reports on analysis completed and communicate findings.
Collect, preserve, label, catalog, and store evidentiary items for presentation in criminal proceedings 
in accordance with legal standards.
21 of 1111

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo
Police Digital Forensic SpecialistAnalyst
Page 2
Track all evidentiary devices and performs audits of property and evidence. 
Prepare digital evidence for owner release or disposal.
Subject to emergency callout to assist in processing evidence at major crime scenes as needed 
Assist by providing on-scene forensic examination of evidence from mobile devices, computers and 
other digital devices when search warrants are being served.
Maintain records and prepare reports detailing findings and investigative methods for digital forensic 
examinations.
Research and evaluate new technical developments in digital forensic examination and analysis of 
digital evidence.
Maintain a consistent and current understanding of laws and technology in the areas of digital 
forensics and other areas of responsibility and recommend changed in policies and procedures 
consistent with laws. 
Perform crypto-currency tracking. 
Serve as primary point of contact between the Police Department and US Secret Service Electronic 
Crimes Task Force.
Maintain and ensure operability of computer forensic equipment.
Represent the Department at community meetings and with other agencies on issues relating 
cybercrime and computer and network safety.
Prepare evidence displays and testify in court as an expert witness in computer/digital forensics.
Provide file information to authorized personnel.
Train new employees in legal requirements, department policies and procedures as they relate to 
digital forensic evidence collection.
Perform administrative and law enforcement support activities as designated. 
Assume responsibility for ensuring the duties of the position are performed in a safe, efficient 
manner.
22 of 1111

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo
Police Digital Forensic SpecialistAnalyst
Page 3
Perform related duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Crime scene forensic investigation procedures.
Operating systems, intrusion, and computer forensic tools.
Forensic science as it applies to the collection and preservation and handling of evidence.
Methods and techniques used in the identification, collection and preservation of digital 
forensic evidence.
Photographic techniques, equipment, and documentation used in crime scene photography.
Rules and procedures of providing testimony in court.
Programs used in the digital examination of evidence such as Cellebrite, and other computer 
applications related to the work, including word processing and commonly used law enforcement 
databases.
California Electronic Communications Privacy Act, and other Codes, regulations, policies and 
procedures related to the tasks to which assigned.
Knowledge of aAdvanced mobile device recovery techniques such as JTAG and Chip-off is 
highly desirable. 
Applicable Federal, State, and local criminal and civil laws, codes, and regulations. 
Principles and practices of electronic data storage, data encryption, and computer security 
systems.
Ability to:
Use current methods and techniques of digital evidence collection, recognition, identification, 
23 of 1111

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo
Police Digital Forensic SpecialistAnalyst
Page 4
comparison and verification.
Effectively examine and analyze computer hardware, software, and electronically stored data 
pertaining to law enforcement.
Safely collect, handle, transport, process, secure, and store digital evidence. 
Find and extract electronically stored information to be used as evidence. 
Perform complex digital evidence recovery and analysis work.
Operate office equipment including computer information systems to include digital processing, 
database inquiry and word processing.
Effectively testify as an expert witness in court.
Work cooperatively with other law enforcement organizations and federal agencies.
Maintain confidentiality with classified and sensitive information.
Review and process evidence which may be disturbing in nature.
Maintain the integrity of evidence and chain of custody in accordance with established 
guidelines.
Prepare accurate written reports; maintain accurate and legible logs and records.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Learn and apply pertinent Federal, State and Local policies, procedures, laws and regulations
Work in a safe manner, following safety practices and procedures, model and coach others in 
correct procedures.
Maintain confidentiality.
Experience and Training Guidelines
Any combination of experience and training that would likely provide the required knowledge 
and abilities is qualifying. A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:
Experience:
24 of 1111

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo
Police Digital Forensic SpecialistAnalyst
Page 5
Two years of experience performing police-related duties specifically related to digital evidence 
technology related to computer forensics including some experience with handling of evidence, 
evidence collection and processing may be substituted for Associates or Bachelors’ Degree..
Training:
An Associates of Arts or Science or aA Bachelor’s of Arts or Science degree from an accredited 
college in administration of justice, evidence technology, computer science or related field.
Licenses and Certificates:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California Driver’s License and a satisfactory driving record.
Possession of or ability to obtain ENCE certification from ENCASE, and certification to use Cellebrite 
highly desirable
ADA Special Requirement:
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Must be able to work a flexible schedule including emergency call-in, overtime with extended hours, 
call-back, shift-work, nights, holidays, and weekends to accommodate investigatory needs.
Must be able to perform work in a variety of locations to include on-site work at crime scenes, and in 
the Police Department. Work is performed in indoor and outdoor environments. When work is 
performed outdoors, there is full exposure to the elements. The incumbent may be exposed to related 
health hazards to include blood and other bodily fluids/products, infectious diseases, human borne 
parasites, air, water, and blood borne pathogens, and may have contact with complete and/or partial 
human corpses in various stages of decomposition. Other health hazards may include odors, toxic 
chemicals, and hazardous substances. Occasionally, work is performed within confined areas or at 
high altitudes, including photography from helicopters. Physical demands include some ability to 
stand, walk, bend, lift, and reach. May be required to independently work crime scene investigations 
either without supervision or without sworn police presence. Incumbents must be able to meet the 
physical requirements of the class and have mobility, vision, hearing and dexterity levels appropriate 
to the duties to be performed.
ADOPTED CC: 
11-8-17
REVISED CC: 
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:
GENERAL UNIT
FLSA:
NON-EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
WHITE COLLAR LEADS / PROGRAMS
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT-MEDICAL:
YES
SAFETY SENSITIVE:      
YES
25 of 1111

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo
Police Digital Forensic SpecialistAnalyst
Page 6
REQUIRED HARASSMENT PREVENTION TRAINING: SUPERVISORY  
FORM 700:
NO
JOB CODES:
5286
ABOLISHED: 
26 of 1111

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9811
File ID: 25-10068
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Deputy Director of Public Works Job Specification Updates — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the updates to the job specification of the Deputy Director of Public Works position.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department has two (2) Deputy Directors that each manage half of the department’s eight technical 
divisions.  Recently, one of the Deputy Directors resigned, requiring opening a new recruitment for a replacement. There is 
a need to revise the job specification to update the duties and minimum qualifications, and provide greater flexibility for 
assigning divisional management responsibilities between both positions.  The proposed revisions to the job specification 
removes a definition related to the prior “Environmental Services Division” or “Engineering and Facilities Services Division” 
and creates a general language that covers all of the relevant potential duties and desired knowledge, skills, and abilities.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with the revisions to the job specification of the Deputy Director of Public Works 
position.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The job specification updates are not subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
             Exhibit A – Job Specification
Att 2 – Job Specification with tracked changes
STAFF CONTACT
Lourdes Coles, Senior Human Resources Analyst
lcoles@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7264
27 of 1111

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2025)
JOB SPECIFICATION UPDATES
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
WHEREAS, pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code Section 2.57.030(d), approval of new 
classifications and related job specifications, salary schedules, compensation changes, elimination or 
reinstatement of positions, reallocation of positions, reclassifications, and revisions of job specifications must be 
approved by City Council Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the proposed changes as detailed below are in response to Public Works Department’s 
request to revise the job specification for the classification of Deputy Director of Public Works to accurately 
reflect the duties and requirements of the classification; and
WHEREAS, the job specification for the classification of Deputy Director of Public Works is attached 
hereto as Exhibit A, and incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the employee association representing the impacted classifications has been informed of the 
job specification updates and has not brought forth any objections or concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The revisions to the job specification for the classification of Deputy Director of Public Works are not 
subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that they will not cause a physical change in 
the environment; and
2.
The revised job specification for the classification of Deputy Director of Public Works is approved 
and attached as Exhibit A.
28 of 1111

--- page 29 ---
Exhibit A
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
DEFINITION
Under general direction, to assist in planning, directing, managing, and overseeing the activities and 
operations of the Public Works Department; to coordinate assigned activities with other City departments, 
divisions, and outside agencies; and to provide highly responsible and complex administrative support to 
the Director of Public Works.  May serve as the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Works in their 
absence.
SUPERVISION EXERCISED AND RECEIVED
Receives general direction from the Director of Public Works. 
Exercises direct supervision over management, supervisory, professional, technical, and administrative 
support staff.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES
Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Select, train, motivate and evaluate personnel; provide or coordinate staff training; work with employees to 
correct deficiencies, implement discipline procedures. 
Plan, direct, coordinate and review the work plan for the division; meet with staff to identify and resolve 
problems; assign work activities, projects, and programs; monitor workflow; review and evaluate work 
products, methods, and procedures. 
Provide responsible staff assistance to the Director of Public Works; prepare and present staff reports and 
other necessary correspondence. 
Respond to and resolve difficult and sensitive inquiries and complaints. 
Prepare a variety of budgets, reports, correspondence, and special studies.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Manage the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, projects and priorities for 
assigned regulatory and environmental services and programs including wastewater treatment, conveyance 
29 of 1111

--- page 30 ---
system and pump maintenance, storm drains, regulatory compliance, laboratory management, solid waste 
and recycling, and streets and traffic equipment and device maintenance; recommend, within Departmental 
policy, appropriate service and staffing levels; recommend and administer policies and procedures.
Continuously monitor and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery methods and 
procedures; assess and monitor work load, administrative and support systems, and internal reporting 
relationships; identify opportunities for improvement and review with the Director of Public Works; direct 
the implementation of improvements.
Manage and participate in the development and administration of the annual operating budget and capital 
improvement budgets; direct the forecast of additional funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials, and 
supplies; direct the monitoring of and approve expenditures; direct and implement adjustments as 
necessary.
Serve as a liaison with other City departments, divisions, and outside agencies; negotiate and resolve 
significant and controversial issues.
Serve as the subject matter expert representing the City in all claims, lawsuits and disputes related to 
wastewater conveyance, treatment, or discharge.
Conduct a variety of organizational studies, investigations, and operational studies; recommend 
modifications to programs, policies, and procedures.
Manage and review all public works engineering activities including engineering design, traffic 
engineering, construction inspection and survey, contract administration and asset management.  
Manage and review all facilities services activities, including project management, fleet coordination, 
downtown coordination and building maintenance. 
Ensure coordination with Community Development Department to monitor private developments 
provision of land division records and to determine adequate facilities and funds for addition of the 
necessary improvements to the Public Works infrastructure to service the project proposed.
Direct the forecast of additional funds needed for construction, staffing, equipment, materials, and 
supplies; monitor and approve expenditures; implement mid-year adjustments.
Evaluate, direct and monitor engineering, technical and facilities services operations.
Provide the point of contact for all claims processed by the City Attorney’s office and represent the City 
in depositions and court proceedings.
Manage and participate in the preparation and administration of the capital improvement plan and 
budget relating to design, construction, traffic, and water quality engineering projects.
Attend and participate in meetings and conferences with City boards and commissions, council, City 
administrators, public officials, professional organizations, contractors, County, Regional and State 
regulatory agencies regarding matters relating to areas of assigned responsibilities.
30 of 1111

--- page 31 ---
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS
Knowledge of:
Operational characteristics, services and activities of environmental services, wastewater treatment, 
conveyance systems and maintenance, regulatory compliance and streets and traffic maintenance. 
Operational characteristics, services and activities of engineering, private development review, 
capital projects design and management, fleet coordination, project management and building 
maintenance. 
Modern and complex principles and practices of program development and administration.
Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Computerized Maintenance Management Systems 
(CMMS) and Asset Management.
Advanced principles and practices of budget preparation and administration.
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation.
Principles and practices of project management.
Pertinent Federal, State, and local laws, codes and regulations.
Safe driving principles and practices.
Ability to:
Provide administrative and professional leadership and direction for the assigned Division.
Recommend and implement goals, objectives and practices for the assigned division’s programs and 
services.
Manage, direct and coordinate the work of management, supervisory, professional, technical and 
administrative support personnel.
Select, supervise, train, and evaluate staff.
Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions, and 
implement recommendations in support of assigned division’s goals and objectives.
Research, analyze, and evaluate new public works service delivery methods, procedures, and 
techniques.
Prepare and administer budgets.
Prepare clear and concise administrative reports.
31 of 1111

--- page 32 ---
Interpret and apply the policies, procedures, laws, codes and regulations pertaining to the 
assigned division’s programs and functions.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Establish, maintain, and foster positive and harmonious working relationships with those contacted 
in the course of work.
Minimum Qualifications:
Experience:
Eight years of responsible public works experience including four years of management and 
supervisory experience.
Training:
Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major course 
work in engineering, environmental services or a related field.  A Master’s degree is 
desirable.
License or Certificate:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California driver's license.
License to practice as a Professional Civil Engineer within the State of California is required 
Possession of license to practice Traffic Engineering within the State of California is desirable
Special Requirements:
Essential duties require the following physical skills and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites and locations.
ADOPTED CC: 
6-16-03
REVISED CC: 
10-3-11, 9-3-13, 6-16-25
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:      
DEPUTY DIRECTORS UNIT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT-MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2117
ABOLISHED: 
32 of 1111

--- page 33 ---
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
DEFINITION
Under general direction, to assist in planning, directing, managing, and overseeing the 
activities and operations of the Public Works Department; to coordinate assigned activities 
with other City departments, divisions, and outside agencies; and to provide highly 
responsible and complex administrative support to the Director of Public Works.  May serve 
as the City Engineer and/or the Director of Public Works in their absence.
Responsible for directing and managing all programs within one of the two following 
technical areas:
•
Environmental Services Division including wastewater treatment plant operations 
and maintenance; sanitary sewer and stormwater conveyance and pump system 
maintenance; field maintenance for streets and traffic control devices and 
equipment; and regulatory compliance, including laboratory services, environmental 
compliance inspections, air quality regulatory compliance and solid waste and 
recycling. 
•
Engineering and Facilities Services Division including capital improvement 
program development and implementation, traffic engineering, private development 
review, asset management, construction management, fleet coordination, downtown 
coordination and building maintenance. Serve as City Engineer. 
Responsibilities also include coordinating assigned activities with other City departments, 
divisions, and outside agencies. 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED AND RECEIVED
Receives general direction from the Director of Public Works. 
Exercises direct supervision over management, supervisory, professional, technical, and 
administrative support staff.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES
Depending upon assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
Select, train, motivate and evaluate personnel; provide or coordinate staff training; work 
with employees to correct deficiencies, implement discipline procedures. 
33 of 1111

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 2
Plan, direct, coordinate and review the work plan for the division; meet with staff to identify 
and resolve problems; assign work activities, projects, and programs; monitor workflow; 
review and evaluate work products, methods, and procedures. 
Provide responsible staff assistance to the Director of Public Works; prepare and present 
staff reports and other necessary correspondence. 
Respond to and resolve difficult and sensitive inquiries and complaints. 
Prepare a variety of budgets, reports, correspondence, and special studies.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES – ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES DIVISION
Assume management responsibility for Environmental Services Division programs, services 
and activities.
Manage the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, projects and 
priorities for assigned regulatory and environmental services and programs including 
wastewater treatment, conveyance system and pump maintenance, storm drains, regulatory 
compliance, laboratory management, solid waste and recycling, and streets and traffic 
equipment and device maintenance; recommend, within Departmental policy, appropriate 
service and staffing levels; recommend and administer policies and procedures.
Continuously monitor and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery 
methods and procedures; assess and monitor work load, administrative and support systems, 
and internal reporting relationships; identify opportunities for improvement and review with 
the Director of Public Works; direct the implementation of improvements.
Manage and participate in the development and administration of the Environmental 
Services Division annual operarting budget and capital improvement budgets; direct the 
forecast of additional funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies; direct 
the monitoring of and approve expenditures; direct and implement adjustments as necessary.
Serve as a liaison for the Environmental Services Division with other City departments, 
divisions, and outside agencies; negotiate and resolve significant and controversial issues.
Serve as the subject matter expert representing the City in all claims, lawsuits and disputes 
related to wastewater conveyance, treatment, or discharge.
Conduct a variety of organizational studies, investigations, and operational studies; 
recommend modifications to Environmental Services Division programs, policies, and 
procedures.
Attend and participate in meetings and conferences with City boards and commissions, 
council, City administrators, public officials, professional organizations, contractors, 
34 of 1111

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 3
County, Regional and State regulatory agencies regarding matters relating to areas of 
assigned responsibilities.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES – ENGINEERING AND FACILITIES SERVICES 
DIVISION
Serve as the City Engineer and assume management responsibility for Engineering and 
Facilities Services Division programs, services, and activities.
Manage and review all public works engineering activities including engineering design, 
traffic engineering, construction inspection and survey, contract administration and asset 
management.  Manage and review all facilities services activities, including project 
management, fleet coordination, downtown coordination and building maintenance. 
Ensure coordination with Community Development Department to monitor private 
developments provision of land division records and to determine adequate facilities and 
funds for addition of the necessary improvements to the Public Works infrastructure to 
service the project proposed.
Manage and participate in the development and administration of the division's capital 
and operating budgets; dDirect the forecast of additional funds needed for construction, 
staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies; monitor and approve expenditures; 
implement mid-year adjustments.
Evaluate, direct and monitor engineering, technical and facilities services operations.
Provide the point of contact for all claims processed by the City Attorney’s office and 
represent the City in depositions and court proceedings.
Manage and participate in the preparation and administration of the capital improvement 
plan and budget relating to design, construction, traffic, and water quality engineering 
projects.
Serve as a liaison for the Engineering and Facilities Services Division with other divisions, 
City departments, and outside agencies; negotiate and resolve significant and controversial 
issues.
Attend and participate in meetings and conferences with City boards and commissions, 
council, City administrators, public officials, professional organizations, contractors, 
County, Regional and State regulatory agencies regarding matters relating to areas of 
assigned responsibilities.
JOB RELATED AND ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS
35 of 1111

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 4
Knowledge of:
Operational characteristics, services and activities of environmental services, 
wastewater treatment, conveyance systems and maintenance, regulatory compliance 
and streets and traffic maintenance. 
OR
Operational characteristics, services and activities of engineering, private 
development review, capital projects design and management, fleet coordination, 
project management and building maintenance. 
Modern and complex principles and practices of program development and 
administration.
Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Computerized Maintenance Management 
Systems (CMMS) and Asset Management.
Advanced principles and practices of budget preparation and administration.
Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation.
Principles and practices of project management.
Pertinent Federal, State, and local laws, codes and regulations.
Safe driving principles and practices.
Ability to:
Provide administrative and professional leadership and direction for the assigned 
Division.
Recommend and implement goals, objectives and practices for the assigned 
division’s programs and services.
Manage, direct and coordinate the work of management, supervisory, professional, 
technical and administrative support personnel.
Select, supervise, train, and evaluate staff.
Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed 
actions, and implement recommendations in support of assigned division’s goals and 
objectives.
36 of 1111

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 5
Research, analyze, and evaluate new public works service delivery methods, 
procedures, and techniques.
Prepare and administer budgets.
Prepare clear and concise administrative reports.
Interpret and apply the policies, procedures, laws, codes and regulations 
pertaining to the assigned division’s programs and functions.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Establish, maintain, and foster positive and harmonious working relationships with 
those contacted in the course of work.
Minimum Qualifications:
Experience:
Eight years of responsible public works experience including four years of 
management and supervisory experience.
Training:
Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university 
with major course work in engineering, environmental services or a related 
field.  A Master’s degree is desirable.
License or Certificate:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid California driver's license.
License to practice as a Professional Civil Engineer within the State of California is 
required (Engineering and Facilities Services Division).
Possession of a Grade V Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Certificate issued by 
the State of California is desirable (Environmental Services Division).
Possession of license to practice Traffic Engineering within the State of California is 
desirable (Engineering and Facilities Services Division).
37 of 1111

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 6
Special Requirements:
38 of 1111

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo 
Deputy Director of Public Works 
Page 6
Essential duties require the following physical skills and work environment:
Ability to work in a standard office environment; ability to travel to different sites and 
locations.
ADOPTED CC: 
6-16-03
REVISED CC: 
10-3-11, 9-3-13
FORMER TITLES: 
BARGAINING UNIT:      
DEPUTY DIRECTORS UNIT
FLSA:
EXEMPT
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL:
MANAGEMENT
DOT:
NO
PRE APPT-MEDICAL:
NO
SAFETY SENSITIVE:
NO
FORM 700:
YES
JOB CODES:
2117
ABOLISHED: 
39 of 1111

--- page 40 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-1311
File ID: 25-10010
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
2nd and El Camino Public Garage — Licensing Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a licensing agreement, substantially in the form presented, between the City of San Mateo and Sutter Bay 
Hospital (dba Mills-Peninsula Medical Center) to permit use of 60 City-owned parking spaces on the 5th floor of the 2nd 
Avenue and El Camino Real public garage for hospital staff parking.
BACKGROUND:
Sutter Bay Hospital, doing business as Mills-Peninsula Medical Center (MPMC), located at 100 South San Mateo Drive, has 
formally requested the exclusive use of 60 City-owned parking spaces on the fifth floor of the 2nd Avenue and El Camino 
Real City-owned garage. 
Mills-Peninsula Medical Center request is rooted to in their desire to improving safe and convenient access to parking for 
their employees as the facility has undergone expansion. Services at the 100 South San Mateo campus grew by 12 percent 
in 2024 and are on pace for an additional 7 percent increase in 2025. By the end of 2025, an additional 10 physicians will 
be providing services at the 50 South San Mateo building, with plans to add 7-9 more physicians in 2026 and 2027. These 
providers will offer much-needed services to the City and region, including expanded access to primary care, family 
medicine, oncology, cardiac care, and more.
As one the largest private employers in Downtown San Mateo, MPMC’s expansion is expected to create new job 
opportunities and contribute to patronage of local businesses and restaurants adjacent to the campus. To support this 
anticipated growth, MPMC seeks to use its on-site parking garage for patient use and requests that the City allow hospital 
staff and affiliates to utilize dedicated spaces at the 2nd Avenue Garage.
While the lower floors of the 2nd and El Camino public garage generally utilized have a high degree of permit holders and 
spaces are well utilized during peak hours, the parking spaces on the fifth floor are consistently underused. Allocating 
these spaces for the hospital’s exclusive use is not expected to significantly impact public parking availability at this garage 
and frees up spaces at other nearby public garages from current and future hospital staff. If Council grants this request, the 
dedicated parking spaces will increase the hospital’s operational efficiency while maintaining adequate public parking 
access at this and other public garages. Furthermore, consolidating hospital employee parking on the top floor reduces 
vehicle circulation and congestion in the Downtown area by providing close guaranteed parking stalls, and improves 
overall traffic flow in the area.
Based on the above, staff recommends the City enter into a licensing agreement with MPMC. Key terms of the agreement 
include: 
40 of 1111

--- page 41 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
• Term: 12 months, commencing on July 1, 2025
• Renewal Option: 4 additional one-year renewals 
• Termination:  Can be terminated by either party with 60 days’ notice
• License Fee: $150 per month, per space for 60 spaces; will increase annually by the Consumer Price Index 
• Use: Hospital staff, tenants, and authorized personnel only
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City will receive $108,000 annually in parking fees, which will support the maintenance, security, and upkeep of the 
Downtown public garages.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Licensing Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7009
41 of 1111

--- page 42 ---
1
LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SUTTER BAY 
HOSPITALS, DBA MILLS-PENINSULA MEDICAL CENTER, FOR THE USE OF CITY-
OWNED PARKING SPACES 
This License Agreement ("Agreement") is dated for reference purposes only this ____ 
day of June, 2025, by and between CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California charter city (herein 
termed "City"), and SUTTER BAY HOSPITALS, a California nonprofit public benefit corporation, 
dba Mills-Peninsula Medical Center (herein termed "Licensee").
RECITALS:
A.
Licensee desires to utilize sixty (60) parking spaces (individually, "Parking Space " and 
collectively, "Parking Spaces") at the 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage (the "Garage") 
owned by the City.
B.
City has the authority to regulate the terms and conditions for the use of public property, 
including the Garage.
C.
Licensee is a nonprofit public benefit corporation providing healthcare services and 
otherwise doing business within City's jurisdiction and desires to provide its Tenants and 
employees with parking in support of Licensee’s business operations.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the recitals and the other consideration and 
mutual promises contained herein, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby 
acknowledged, City and Licensee hereby agree as follows:
Section 1 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement authorizes the licensing of sixty (60) Parking Spaces for the exclusive 
use of Licensee as described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by 
reference. The precise location of the Parking Spaces shall be determined by the City in 
consultation with Licensee.  Parking Spaces shall be available for twenty-four (24) hours of 
dedicated vehicle parking.
Section 2 - TERM OF AGREEMENT
A.
This Agreement shall be binding on City and Licensee on the date of its approval by the 
City Council of the City of San Mateo ("Effective Date") and shall be for an initial term of 
one (1) year from the Effective Date ("Term") with four (4) additional one-year (1-year) 
options for renewal. Provided that Licensee is not in default under this License, the Term 
will renew automatically for one-year (1-year) periods of time, up to a total of five years 
including the initial one-year term.  Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, either 
party shall have the right to terminate this agreement, in each party’s respective sole and 
absolute discretion, upon sixty (60) days’ prior written notice. 
B.
Failure on the part of either party to perform any material obligation imposed upon it 
shall constitute a default and a material breach of this Agreement. In such event, the City 
shall be entitled to exercise all rights and remedies hereby reserved under this 
Agreement or made available under applicable Laws. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a "material obligation" shall include, without limitation, any failure of either 
42 of 1111

--- page 43 ---
2
party to give any required notice to the other and the failure to perform either party’s 
respective obligations hereunder.
C.
Evaluation of parking needs by City and Licensee shall occur every six (6) months to 
understand if the arrangement captured by this Agreement is mutually beneficial and 
whether modifications to this Agreement are necessary.
Section 3 - LICENSE FEE
Licensee agrees to pay City a licensing fee of One Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150) per 
Parking Space for sixty (60) Parking Spaces, for a total monthly amount of Nine Thousand 
Dollars ($9,000) (the "License Fee”) during the initial one-year (1-year) Term of this Agreement. 
The License Fee shall increase annually on the anniversary date of this Agreement based on 
the change in the Consumer Price Index, as determined by the City.
Section 4 - LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
A.
City hereby agrees to permit Licensee, subject to reservations, covenants, and 
conditions herein contained, to provide its Tenants and employees with parking in 
support of Licensee’s business operations at designated Parking Spaces.  Licensee may 
install appropriate signage and striping designating the licensed Parking Spaces, subject 
to City approval including any required permit or other permission.  
B.
This Agreement is not a grant by City of any property interest but is made subject and 
subordinate to the prior and continuing right of City and its assigns to lawfully use any or 
all of the City-owned facilities in the performance of its duties. No use of any property 
under this Agreement shall create or vest in Licensee or its successors any ownership 
interest in the property or other interest of City. Nothing in this Agreement shall be 
deemed to grant, convey, create, or vest a perpetual real property interest in land in 
Licensee, including any fee or leasehold interest in land, easement, or any franchise 
rights.
C.
This Agreement is made subject to all easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, 
encumbrances, and claims of title which may affect the designated Parking Spaces, and 
it is understood that Licensee, at its own cost and expense, shall obtain such permission 
as may be necessary, consistent with any other existing rights. Any work performed 
pursuant to the rights granted to Licensee under this Agreement shall be subject to the 
prior review and approval of City.
D.
The installation, operation, maintenance, and removal of any physical improvements to 
support Licensee’s dedicated Parking Spaces —including but not limited to addressing 
graffiti, general abatement of abandoned property, and upkeep of the area—shall be 
accomplished without cost or expense to the City, and in a manner that does not 
endanger persons or property or unreasonably obstruct travel on any road, walkway, or 
other access on City property.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this 
Agreement, Licensee is prohibited from taking any enforcement action with respect to 
vehicles parked in the Parking Spaces without authorization (“Unauthorized Vehicles”), 
including the issuance of citations, invoices, fines or imposing any monetary penalty, and 
further including the towing or removal of such vehicles.   Licensee may only issue 
43 of 1111

--- page 44 ---
3
warnings regarding Unauthorized Vehicles in a format subject to prior written approval 
from the City.
Section 5 - TEMPORARY PROHIBITED ACCESS
City shall have the right to temporarily prohibit all automobiles from being parked in one 
or more of the Parking Spaces, as the need arises, provided, however, prior to any such 
prohibition on access to the Parking Spaces taking effect, except in cases of a public 
emergency, City shall deliver to Licensee thirty (30) days’ written notice setting forth the reason 
for the prohibition on parking and the date and times such prohibition shall remain in effect. If 
Licenses is prohibited from accessing any Parking Spaces for a period that exceeds five (5) 
consecutive days, Licenses shall have a right to proportionately abate the License Fee for all 
days for which it has been deprived access to the applicable Parking Spaces.  The parties 
recognize that occasional repairs are required, that licensed spaces may be closed due to 
flooding, debris, or other impediments, and that public property is occasionally occupied for the 
purposes of conducting repairs, parades, festivals, and other events, whether such event is 
conducted by City or any person not a party to this Agreement. In the event Parking Spaces are 
removed from service by City, City will work with the Licensee to identify nearby alternative 
locations for the duration of time that the Parking Spaces are unavailable. The duration of time 
allowed for a temporary closing or relocation shall be an amount of time that is reasonable for 
such purpose.
Section 6- COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS
A.
Licensee agrees to keep the Garage, including the Parking Spaces, in good and safe 
condition and free from any nuisance to the reasonable satisfaction of the City Manager 
or their designee. 
B.
Licensee shall install signage and striping at designated Parking Spaces and otherwise 
use the Garage, including the Parking Spaces, in a manner that does not violate any 
local, state, federal, and other regulatory agency laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations.  
Licensee shall comply with all applicable Laws in its performance under this Agreement.  
Section 7 - NO FRANCHISE RIGHTS CREATED
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as granting or creating any franchise 
rights.
Section 8 - REMOVAL AND RELOCATION
If any Parking Spaces are not used by Licensee for at least thirty (30) consecutive days 
without payment of the License Fee, City shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by 
written notice only as it relates to the Parking Spaces that are abandoned by Licensee, unless 
Licensee recommences using such Parking Spaces within ten (10) days of receiving written 
notice from the City.  
If this Agreement is terminated as to any of the Parking Spaces, Licensee shall either 
promptly vacate or remove any improvements installed by Licensee, such as signage and 
striping, at its own expense or, at City's discretion, Licensee may be allowed to abandon some 
or all of the improvements in place. If Licensee is permitted by City to abandon its improvements 
44 of 1111

--- page 45 ---
4
in place, any such abandoned improvements shall be deemed conveyed to City and Licensee 
shall have no further obligation to remove, relocate, or maintain said improvements.
Section 9 –PERMITS AND FEES
Licensee shall apply for any required permits for the installation of any signage, striping, 
and parking garage security gate(s) within the Garage to identify the Parking Spaces as being 
exclusively reserved for Licensee. Licensee shall furnish detailed plans of any such signage 
work and the installation of any security gate(s) within the Garage and other such information as 
required by the Director of Public Works and shall pay or deposit within City all applicable costs 
such as processing fees, field marking, plan review, engineering and inspection fees related to 
the proposed signage and striping work and security gate(s). Any improvements shall be 
constructed and installed in accordance with City’s Municipal Code, permit general conditions, 
and as further provided in this Agreement.
Section 10 -DAMAGE TO PUBLIC FACILITIES AND VEHICLES
If any City property is damaged by Licensee or its invitees in connection with Licensee's 
activities pursuant to this Agreement, Licensee shall notify the City within twenty-four (24) hours 
of the damages and, upon City's request, promptly repair (or arrange for the repair of) such 
damage at Licensee's sole cost and expense and to the satisfaction of City, provided, however, 
that such damage did not arise, in whole or in part, as a result of City’s or any of City’s 
employees’, affiliates’, contractors’, or agents’ gross negligence or willful misconduct.  
Section 11 - HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION
Licensee, for itself, and jointly and severally, for its agents, contractors, and employees, 
hereby agrees to hold harmless, defend (with counsel selected by Licensee and reasonably 
satisfactory to City) and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents (all of the above hereinafter collectively known as "Indemnitees"), from and against all 
claims, cause of actions, proceedings, losses, damages, liability, cost, and expense (including, 
without limit, any fines, penalties, judgments, litigation costs, attorneys’ fees, and consulting, 
engineering, and construction costs) for actual loss of or damage to property and for injuries to 
or death of any person (including, but not limited to, the property and employees of each party) 
("Liability") when caused by, arising out of or related to the activities or the licensing of the 
Parking Spaces described in this Agreement. The duty of Licensee to indemnify and hold 
harmless includes the duty to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the Civil Code. It is the 
express intent of the parties that Licensee will indemnify and hold harmless indemnitees from 
any and all claims, suits, or actions arising from any cause whatsoever as set forth above 
regardless of the existence or degree of fault or negligence on the part of City, Licensee or any 
subcontractor or employee of any of these, except to the extent the Liability was the result of the 
gross negligence or willful misconduct or criminal acts of any of the Indemnities. The obligations 
of Licensee under this Section 11 shall survive termination of this Agreement.
Section 12 - INSURANCE
Any person, firm, or corporation Licensee authorizes to work upon the City's property, 
including any subcontractor, shall be deemed to be Licensee's agent and shall be subject to all 
the applicable terms of this Agreement. Prior to entry upon or occupation of City's property by 
such agents, Licensee shall provide City with satisfactory evidence in the form of certificates of 
insurance that it and its contractors or other agents who will obtain access to the Garage 
45 of 1111

--- page 46 ---
5
pursuant to this Agreement are insured in accordance with the following, which insurance shall 
remain in effect throughout the term of this Agreement and shall be at the sole cost and 
expense of Licensee (or its agents). 
Prior to the start of the work, if any, or entry onto the Garage, Licensee agrees to 
procure and maintain, and to require its contractor(s) to procure and maintain, at its (or its 
contractors') sole cost and expense (and to provide to City's reasonable satisfaction that it 
remains in effect throughout the Agreement) the kinds of insurance described below: 
A.
Workers' Compensation and Employers' Liability Insurance.
Licensee shall secure the payment of workers' compensation in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3700 of the California Labor Code (and any amendments thereto or 
successor acts or statutes) with Statutory Limits and Licensee shall furnish City with a certificate 
evidencing such coverage.
The Licensee shall also maintain Employer's Liability coverage with minimum limits of 
One Million Dollars ($1,000,000).
Licensee shall furnish City with its certificate(s) of insurance required hereunder prior to 
the commencement of work. Licensee shall endeavor that its policy will not be cancelled or have 
coverage reduced without thirty (30) days’ prior written notice.
B.
Commercial General Liability Insurance.
Licensee shall, at its own cost and expense, also procure and maintain Commercial 
General Liability Insurance.
Insurance shall provide bodily injury and property damage coverage with a limit of at 
least Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) each occurrence and a general aggregate limit of at least 
Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000). This insurance shall include but not be limited to premises 
and operations; contractual liability covering the indemnity provisions contained in this 
Agreement; personal injury; collapse, and underground coverage, products and completed 
operations, and broad form property damage.
Prior to commencing work or entering onto the Garage, Licensee shall file its 
certificate(s) of insurance and endorsement (if any) with the City Manager evidencing coverage. 
Said certificate(s) of insurance shall stipulate:
(1)
Licensee shall, where commercially reasonable, require the insurance 
company(ies) issuing such policy(ies) to give written notice to the City Manager of any 
material alteration, or reduction in aggregate limits, if such limits apply; and provide at 
least thirty (30) days' notice of cancellation.
(2)
That the policy(ies) is(are) primary insurance and the insurer(s) providing such 
policy(ies) shall be liable thereunder for the full amount of any loss or claim which 
Licensee is liable for under this Section, up to and including the total limit of liability, 
without right of contribution from any other insurance effected or which may be effected 
by City.
46 of 1111

--- page 47 ---
6
(3)
 The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as 
additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee.  The policy(ies) shall also 
stipulate: Inclusion of the City as an additional insured shall not in any way affect its 
rights either as respects any claim, demand, suit or judgment made, brought or 
recovered against Licensee. Said policy(ies) shall protect Licensee and the City in the 
same manner as though a separate policy had been issued to each, but nothing in said 
policy(ies) shall operate to increase the insurance company's liability as set forth in its 
policy(ies) beyond the amount or amounts shown or to which the insurance company 
would have been liable if only one interest had been named as an insured.
C.
Automobile Insurance. Licensee shall, at its own cost and expense (or at its contractor’s 
sole cost and expense), procure and maintain automobile liability insurance providing 
bodily injury and property damage with a combined single limit of at least One Million 
Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence for any auto, or if the Licensee has not owned auto, 
hired and non-owned autos. This insurance shall provide contractual liability covering all 
motor vehicles and mobile equipment owned or hired by Licensee to the extent coverage 
may be excluded from general liability insurance.
D.
Property Insurance. Licensee shall, at its own cost and expense, procure, and maintain 
property insurance to protect its interest in the property to be used in performance of this 
Agreement and the City's interest in materials or property affected by the installation, 
covering all risks of physical loss or damage to such equipment and property. The 
coverage under such policy shall have limits of liability adequate to protect the value of 
the equipment and property to be installed, which shall be reasonably determined by 
Licensee.
E.
Other Insurance Requirements.
(1)
Term. The General Liability, Workers’ Compensation and automobile insurance 
required under this Section 12 shall remain in force until all work to be performed, if any, 
is satisfactorily completed, all of Licensee's personnel and equipment have been 
removed from City property, and the work has been formally accepted. The property 
insurance shall remain in force for the term of this Agreement. The failure to procure or 
maintain required insurance and/or an adequately funded self-insurance program will 
constitute a material breach of this Agreement.
All policies will be issued by insurers acceptable to the City, except as other 
stated herein. Upon evidence of financial capacity satisfactory to City, Licensee's 
obligation hereunder may be satisfied in whole or in part by adequately funded self-
insurance.
(2)
Insurance Companies:  Insurance companies must be admitted in California, be 
in good standing with the California Department of Insurance and have an A.M. Best's 
rating of at least A:Vll (or equivalent), except to the extent Licensee satisfies its 
insurance obligations herein through its Captive Insurer (as hereinafter defined) or 
through another vehicle of self-insurance.
(3).
Self-Insured Retention and Deductible Proof of insurance: Prior to the 
commencement of work, if any, under this Agreement, Licensee shall disclose any self-
47 of 1111

--- page 48 ---
7
insured retention, and any deductibles must be stated on certificates of insurance, and 
the certificate of insurance and endorsement must be sent to and approved by City.
(4)
Waiver of Subrogation:  Licensee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to 
subrogation which any insurer of said Licensee may acquire against the City by virtue of 
the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Licensee agrees to obtain any 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
F. Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, so long as Licensee hereunder is the 
original Licensee or an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined), Licensee (or an Affiliate) may 
cause the insurance required to be carried herein to be issued by a duly licensed captive 
insurance company owned by or under common ownership or control with the Licensee 
or an Affiliate (the “Captive Insurer”), if and so long as: (i) the Captive Insurer complies 
with applicable regulatory requirements of, and is in good standing with, the state in 
which it is domiciled and is able to provide insurance coverage for Licensee in the state 
in which the Premises is located; (ii) Licensee’s tangible net worth equals or exceeds 
One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000); and (iii) the Captive Insurer ensures the 
availability of funds to cover all losses required to be insured against by Licensee 
hereunder.  
If the Captive Insurer fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements of and 
maintain such good standing with the state in which it is domiciled or is unable to provide 
insurance coverage for Licensee in the state in which the Premises is located, if 
Licensee fails to maintain the tangible net worth set forth above or if any of the above 
requirements for Licensee to utilize the Captive Insurer are not satisfied, Licensee shall 
immediately procure the insurance coverages required in this section in a manner 
otherwise permissible herein until such requirements are satisfied.  
With respect to (and only to the extent of) any insurance issued by the Captive Insurer, 
the insured Licensee shall not be required to name any person or entity (including, 
without limitation, City or City’s lender(s)) as an additional insured or loss payee as long 
as the Captive Insurer provides a certificate of insurance evidencing the insured 
Licensee’s coverage in accordance with the requirements of this section and that: (A) 
includes wording that the Captive Insurer will respond to the indemnification and hold-
harmless provisions of this Lease, and defend City, subject to the insurance policy 
terms, limitations, and exclusions; and (B) provides the same insurance protection that 
would be provided to City if the insurance was provided by a third party insurer with 
coverage satisfying all of the requirements of this Lease (except the additional insured or 
loss payee requirement and any rating requirement). The Captive Insurer shall provide 
coverage on an occurrence basis.
Section 13 -DEFAULT; ENFORCEMENT OF AGREEMENT
Any breach by Licensee of its obligations hereunder shall be grounds for City to 
terminate this Agreement without liability upon the delivery of five (5) days’ written notice. 
Licensee further agrees that upon the delivery of five (5) days’ written notice, it shall, upon City's 
request, promptly cease operations in and remove all vehicles from the Parking Spaces.  Any 
breach by City of its obligations hereunder shall be grounds for Licensee to terminate this 
48 of 1111

--- page 49 ---
8
Agreement without liability upon the delivery of five (5) days’ written notice.  The parties 
respectively acknowledge and agree that no remedy conferred upon or reserved to either party 
is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedies, and each respective party shall be 
entitled to full and adequate other relief both at law and in equity to enforce the other respective 
party’s obligations.
Section 14 - ASSIGNMENT
This Agreement shall not be assignable by Licensee without the explicit written approval of City, 
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, provided, however, that Licensee may 
assign the rights granted herein to a parent, successor, subsidiary, joint venture, or affiliate of 
Licensee now or hereinafter existing ("Affiliate"), by only providing notice to City of such 
assignment as set forth below. However, this Agreement shall be binding on successors and 
assigns and shall be disclosed to assignee. Assignee shall unconditionally acknowledge and 
agree to be bound by this Agreement in writing to the City within thirty (30) days of assignment 
or it terminates without further action. If Licensee assigns this agreement to any Affiliate, 
Licensee shall provide City with written notice of such assignment within ten (10) business days 
of such assignment.
Section 15 - ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties with respect to 
the subject matter herein. There are no representations, agreements, or understandings 
(whether oral or written) between or among the parties relating to the subject matter of this 
Agreement which are not fully expressed herein. This Agreement may not be amended except 
pursuant to a written instrument signed by all parties.
Section 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any one or more of the covenants or agreements or portions thereof provided in this 
Agreement shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judicial action to be void, 
voidable or unenforceable, such covenant or covenants, such agreement or agreements, or 
such portions thereof shall be null and void and shall be deemed separable from the remaining 
covenants or agreements or portions thereof and shall in no way affect the validity or 
enforceability of the remaining portions of this Agreement, and the parties shall negotiate in 
good faith to replace any such covenant, agreement, or portion found to be null and void.
Section 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet and confer within thirty (30) days of a written 
request by either party to resolve any dispute hereunder. The parties shall mediate the dispute 
amongst themselves in good faith, and if any dispute is not mutually resolved within sixty (60) 
days of the parties’ initial meet and confer conference, as such period may be mutually 
extended, both parties shall have the right to pursue all remedies afforded to them at law and in 
equity to resolve the dispute. Each party shall bear its own costs of mediating any dispute in 
accordance with this Section 17. The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.
Section 18 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
49 of 1111

--- page 50 ---
9
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, and in the event 
of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
Section 19- INDEPENDENT PARTY
Licensee shall at all times be considered an independent party hereunder, and neither 
Licensee nor its employees, agents, or representatives shall, under any circumstances, be 
considered employees of City, a partner with City, or an agent of City; and City shall not be 
legally responsible for negligence or other wrongdoing, either intentional or unintentional, by 
Licensee or Licensee's employees, agents or representatives.
This  Agreement is not intended, and shall not be construed, to create any association, 
joint venture, agency relationship, or partnership between the parties or to impose any such 
obligation or liability upon either party. Neither party shall have any right, power, or authority to 
enter into any agreement or undertaking for, or act as or be an agent or representative of, or 
otherwise bind, the other party.
Section 20 - THIRD-PARTY MODIFICATIONS
This Agreement shall be subject to such changes or modifications as may be required or 
authorized by any regulatory body or commission, except the City’s City Council or 
commissions, in the exercise of its lawful jurisdiction and any modification, revision, renewal, or 
extension of this Agreement shall so state.
Section 21 -TERMINATION
This Agreement may be terminated by either party,  at any time, upon the delivery of thirty  (30) 
days’ prior written notice to the other party. 
Section 22 - NOTICE
All notices and payments given or which may be given pursuant to this Agreement shall 
be in writing and transmitted by United States Postal Service, or by private delivery systems, or 
by private delivery systems as follows:
To CITY:
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
With a copy to:
City Attorney
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
50 of 1111

--- page 51 ---
10
To LICENSEE:
If sent by USPS:
Sutter Health Facility & Property Services
Attn: Director, Real Estate
PO Box 817
Roseville, CA 95661
If personal delivery and all overnight 
couriers such as UPS and FedEx (non-
payment):
Sutter Health Facility & Property Services
Attn: Director, Real Estate
2300 River Plaza Drive
Sacramento, CA 95833
All with a copy to:
Email: 
LeaseAdministration@sutterhealth.org
                           
Section 23 - CONFLICTS
In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and Exhibit A, the terms 
of this Agreement shall govern.  
Section 24 - DEFINITIONS
"Business Day" means any calendar day, except a Saturday, Sunday, and any Day 
observed as a legal holiday by City. For the purposes hereof, if the time in which an act is to be 
performed falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or any Day observed as an official holiday by City, the 
time for performance shall be extended to the following Business Day.
“Day'' means any calendar day, unless a Business Day is specified. For the purposes 
hereof, the time in which an act is to be performed shall be computed by excluding the first Day 
and including the last.
"Law" or "Laws" means any judicial decision, statute, constitution, ordinance, resolution, 
regulation, rule, tariff, administrative order, certificate, order or other requirement of any 
municipal, county, state, federal or other Agency having joint or several jurisdiction over the 
parties to this Agreement, in effect either at the time of execution of this Agreement or at any 
time during the location of the Garage in the Public Right-of-Way, including, without limitation, 
any regulation or order of an official entity or body.
“Tenant” or “Tenants” means individuals or entities that occupy commercial space at 
Licensee’s facilities in the City of San Mateo and may include the Sutter Bay Medical 
Foundation and physicians.  Licensee shall provide a list of its Tenants to the City from time to 
time upon request.  
51 of 1111

--- page 52 ---
11
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]:
52 of 1111

--- page 53 ---
12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SUTTER BAY HOSPITALS  have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
LICENSEE: SUTTER BAY 
HOSPITALS, a California 
nonprofit public benefit 
corporation, dba Mills-Peninsula 
Medical Center
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager
Date
Darian Harris
Chief Executive Officer
Mills-Peninsula Medical Center
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Prasanna W. Rasiah
City Attorney
53 of 1111

--- page 54 ---
13
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES
1.
Location, Number of Parking Spaces. City will make available to Licensee the following 
number of parking spaces on the 5th floor of the Garage.
Number of Parking Spaces
Facility Name and Address 
60 
Second and El Camino Garage
8 2nd Avenue, San Mateo, CA  94401
2.
Signage and Striping. Upon obtaining any approvals necessary in accordance with 
City’s sign ordinance, Licensee shall have the right to place “Hospital” or other trade 
name signage used by Licensee or any Affiliate. At a minimum, City agrees that 
Licensee may mark off reserved parking spaces assigned to Licensee by mutually 
agreed upon signage for the Parking Spaces. Each reserved Parking Space may require 
54 of 1111

--- page 55 ---
14
a single post to be installed for the purpose of mounting the parking signs. Licensee may 
also stencil reserved “hospital” spaces with stenciling.  Licensee shall also place signage 
stating, “Park at your own risk.”  
3.
Parking Space Availability and Use. The location of the Parking Spaces assigned to 
the Licensee shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties. The Parking Spaces made 
available to the Licensee will be used by Licensee for the purpose of providing parking 
for the Tenants and employees of Licensee. Licensee, its Tenants, and its employees 
shall have right to use the Parking Spaces, including without limitation the right to park 
and operate the spaces. City shall provide Licensee, its Tenants, its employees, and its 
third-party personnel with 24x7x365 unrestricted access to the parking spaces and shall 
otherwise provide the amenities it affords to other parking users. 
4.
Licensee shall have the right to install and operate, at its sole cost and expense, certain 
automated security gates within the Garage at any entrance or exit of the Garage with 
approval City and review of plan.
5.
All work done at the Garage would require prevailing wage including contractors.
6.
Licensee shall be responsible for any possessory interest tax from the County. 
7.
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein this exhibit shall have the same meaning 
as set for in the Agreement to which this exhibit is attached. 
55 of 1111

--- page 56 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1711
File ID: 25-10035
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2025-26 General Liability and Property Insurance — Purchase Authorization
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize a staff committee comprised of the City Manager, the Finance Director, and the City Attorney to select the most 
cost-effective program to insure the City's general liability, property risks, and Library; and authorize the City Attorney to 
execute all required documents to purchase the selected insurance for fiscal year 2025-26.
BACKGROUND:
For the past five years, the City Council has authorized a staff committee comprised of the City Manager, the Finance 
Director, and the City Attorney to select the most cost-effective program to insure the City’s general liability and property 
risks and authorized the City Attorney to execute all required documents to purchase the selected insurance. The request 
for Council to authorize a committee in fiscal year 2020-21 was to allow the City to enroll in an organization called Public 
Risk Innovations, Solutions, and Management (PRISM), formerly known as the California State Association of Counties 
(CSAC) Excess Insurance Authority. PRISM is a joint powers authority comprised of dozens of government agencies that 
provides coverage up to $25 million above a $1 million Self-Insured Retention (SIR) per occurrence, and a $1 million 
Individual Member Corridor Deductible (IMCD) that erodes over the course of the fiscal year in exchange for a premium 
discount for the excess liability insurance policy.
This remains a challenging insurance market. On the one hand, the property insurance market has improved such that its 
premium for property insurance will change this year by an estimated -0.4 percent to 4.8 percent, versus the 11.94 
percent increase that occurred in 2024. However, the premium increase for excess liability coverage is estimated at 35.8 
percent to 46.1 percent, primarily due to the state of the insurance market. As always, the fluid circumstances of property 
coverage and cyber excess renewal are currently under review by the staff committee.
City of San Mateo 2025-2026 Insurance Budget Estimates 
Coverage
Expiring 
Premium 
Renewal 
Premium
2025-2026 
Budget 
Low 
Estimate 
2025-2026 
Budget High 
Estimate 
% Change 
Low 
Estimate 
% Change 
High 
Estimate 
Library DIC
$84,030
 $84,030
$89,996 
$98,567 
7.1%
17.3%
Excess Liability
$1,696,283
$2,391,000 
$2,303,000 
$2,479,000 
35.8%
46.1%
Property, Boiler & 
Machinery, 
Environmental & 
Cyber (APIP)
$1,147,186 
$1,099,777
$1,142,139 
$1,202,251 
-0.4%
4.8%
Crime Insurance 
$10,003
$10,629 
$10,503 
$11,003 
5.0%
10.0%
56 of 1111

--- page 57 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Property 
(Bridges)
$151,530 
$177,745 
$177,745 
$177,745 
17.3%
17.3%
SAM
$19,501 
$20,964 
$20,476
$21,451
5.0%
10.0%
San Mateo-Foster 
City Public 
Financing 
Authority 
(Liability)
$23,578
$25,935 
$24,756 
$27,114 
5.0%
15.0%
Total:
$3,132,111 
$3,810,080
$3,768,615
$4,017,131 
20.3%
28.3%
In February 2025, the City Attorney’s Office received the fiscal year 2025-26 Insurance Budget Estimates and PRISM 
Premium Estimates, followed by updated estimates in May 2025. Generally, the estimates are provided as a range rather 
than an exact number. For the purposes of this staff report, the renewal premiums listed above represent an average of 
the low and high budget estimates.  Except however, the premium for the APIP property renewal is $1,099,777 ($72,428 
less than the estimate), the crime insurance premium is $10,629 (marginally less than the estimate) and this year's 
premium for the Library's DIC insurance coverage was renewed in March 2025 for $84,030. The renewal premium 
estimates currently total $3,810,080, which is below the budget high estimated total of $4,017,131. Regardless, the staff 
committee is given broad authority to obtain insurance coverage even if the estimate is somewhat more than the budget 
high estimate.
The staff committee is recommending that Council authorize the committee to select the most cost-effective solution 
continuing into fiscal year 2025-26 as circumstances remain challenging and unusual. The City Attorney would then 
execute all of the documents necessary to obtain that insurance. Included in this evaluation would be liability insurance 
and property insurance (including insuring the City’s critical bridges), and excess cyber liability, if deemed necessary.
In addition, the Main Library's Difference in Conditions (DIC) including Flood and Earth Movement/Building 
Ordinance/ICC/Demo coverage is renewed annually in March. This year's premium for the Library's DIC insurance coverage 
was renewed in March 2025 for $84,030 as noted above. The budget high estimate for this coverage is $98,567, which will 
be renewed in March 2026.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The City paid approximately $3.11 million for general liability and property insurance (including bridges, cyber, and crime) 
for fiscal year 2024-25. The renewal premium for 2025-26, including Library DIC is estimated to be $3,810,080. The 
proposed fiscal year 2025-26 budget assumed $4.1 million for insurance premiums, therefore no modifications to 
appropriations are required.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7020
57 of 1111

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 25-10091
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2024-25 Year-End Supplemental Budget Adjustments – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving year-end supplemental budget adjustments for fiscal year 2024-25.
BACKGROUND:
As part of the City’s annual year-end financial close process, staff reviews all funds and departments to identify any 
supplemental budget needed. This year-end review identified the following adjustments to ensure budget accuracy and 
compliance with spending limits:  
•
Comprehensive General Liability Internal Service Fund (Fund 880) – Add $600,000 for legal costs related to claims 
and litigation activities. 
•
Interfund Transfer from the Construction Service Fund to the General Fund – Transfer $278,000 from the 
Construction Service Fund to reimburse the General Fund for overhead related to staff time spent on development 
projects.
The City’s budget sets legal spending limits based on the best available information at the time the budget is developed. 
However, actual revenues and expenditures can differ due to unforeseen events. Year-end budget adjustments, such as 
those proposed here, are a standard part of closing out the fiscal year to ensure the budget accounts for unexpected 
events, reflect actual activity, and remains in compliance with legal requirements.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed budget adjustments include (1) increasing the operating budget of the Comprehensive General Liability 
Internal Service Fund (Fund 880) by $600,000, and (2) approving infer-fund transfer of $278,000 from the Construction 
Service Fund to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This FY 2024-25 year-end budget adjustment report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution for FY 2024-25 Year-End Budget Adjustments 
58 of 1111

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
59 of 1111

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING YEAR-END BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024-25
WHEREAS, as part of the City’s annual year-end financial close process, staff reviews all funds and 
departments to identify any necessary budget adjustments to ensure the City remains in compliance with legal 
spending limits; and
WHEREAS, this year-end review has identified several supplemental budget adjustments required to 
align budgeted appropriations with actual expenditures and interfund transfers for Fiscal Year 2024-25; and
WHEREAS, the proposed adjustments include appropriations and transfers necessary to reflect actual 
operational needs, address unanticipated expenditures, and ensure budgetary compliance at year-end;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This City Council action is not subject to CEQA review because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4)). 
2.
The following budget appropriation and interfund transfer for fiscal year 2024-25 are approved:
a)
Increase the supplemental appropriation for the Comprehensive General Liability Internal 
Service Fund by $600,000 to cover legal costs related to claims and litigation activities.
b)
Approve an interfund transfer of $278,000 from the Construction Service Fund to the General 
Fund to recover overhead costs for staff time spent on development projects.
60 of 1111

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 19-6131
File ID: 25-10054
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Poplar Creek Golf Course Well Drilling Project — Contract Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution authorizing a transfer of $215,423 from the Golf Course Upgrades FY 18-19 Project (618280) to the Golf 
Course Well Drilling Project (618278) for a total project budget of $718,794. Award a contract to GeoCon Consultants, Inc. 
in the amount of $511,000; establish a 15 percent contingency reserve of $76,650 for a total amount not to exceed 
$587,650; authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders up to the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
Poplar Creek Golf Course has one operational well to irrigate the majority of the 105-acre golf course. In years past, this 
irrigation well has been temporarily inoperable due to various issues related to its aging infrastructure. The well casing and 
the submersible pump have been repaired multiple times over the past several years. The well is 25 years old and is no 
longer producing the amount of water to maintain operational needs. The well was installed in 1999 and was confirmed to 
produce 452 gallons per minute (GPM). Currently, the well is only producing 80-100 GPM. Any loss of turf would be 
expensive to replace and would negatively impact the guest experience on the course. Drilling a second well would be 
beneficial, as it would ensure a reliable source of water to meet our operational needs effectively. The existing irrigation 
system pumps the water from these ponds out to the golf course. 
The Parks and Recreation Department, with assistance from the Public Works Department, released a request for 
proposals (RFP) in July 2024 and received three proposals: 
• GeoCon Consultants, Inc. - $511,000 
• Luhdorff & Scalmanini Consulting Engineers - $729,772 
• Arsenal Well Drilling, Inc. - Incomplete Bid 
The recommendation is to award GeoCon Consultants, Inc. (GeoCon) the contract to provide consulting services and install 
the irrigation well. The above quote from GeoCon Consultants, Inc. does not include the installation cost of the above 
ground infrastructure to move the water from the well into the onsite retention ponds or the well pump electrical 
connections which are required for this project. These portions of the project are considered general construction, and 
staff will solicit bids for this work separately. 
GeoCon Consultants, Inc. submitted the proposal with the lowest cost and after conducting interviews, staff determined 
GeoCon provided the best comprehensive package. Staff recommends awarding the well drilling contract to GeoCon 
Consultants, Inc.
61 of 1111

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The well drilling capital improvement project #618278 has a budget of $503,371. With the transfer of $215,423 from the 
Golf Course Upgrades 2018-19 project #618280, there will be sufficient funding for this project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This award of contract is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065).  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 
15304, the underlying project of drilling a well is categorically exempt from CEQA because it results in a minor alteration of 
land. The onsite retention ponds, which serve the irrigation system, will remain the same size during this project. The new 
irrigation well will not exceed the previously approved water withdrawal from the aquifer. It will only draw the amount of 
water needed to maintain the levels in the retention ponds. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Kevin Kobayashi, Golf Services Manager
kkobayashi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7512
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer
spinon@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
62 of 1111

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROPRIATING $215,423 FROM THE GOLF COURSE UPGRADES 2018-19 PROJECT (#618280) TO THE GOLF 
COURSE WELL DRILLING PROJECT (#618278) FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH GEOCON CONSULTANTS, INC.
WHEREAS, the Golf Course Irrigation Well Project is designed to provide an additional source of well 
water to irrigate the 105-acre Poplar Creek Golf Course and provide a back-up source of water in the event that 
the current well requires repairs; and
WHEREAS, on August 1, 2024, the City received a Professional Service and Construction Fee Proposal 
from GeoCon Consultants, Inc. for $511,000; and
WHEREAS, City staff desires to establish a 15% contingency in the amount of $76,650, to account for 
unanticipated increases due to unknown subsurface conditions.; and
WHEREAS, the total project budget, including materials and construction support services, is $652,650 
and additional funding of $215,423 is required to fully fund the project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that 
it will not cause a physical change in the environment.  (Public Resources Code Section 21065).  In 
accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15304, the underlying project of drilling a well is 
categorically exempt from CEQA because it results in a minor alteration of land. The onsite retention 
ponds, which serve the irrigation system, will remain the same size during this project. The new 
irrigation well will not exceed the previously approved water withdrawal from the aquifer. It will 
only draw the amount of water needed to maintain the levels in the retention ponds.   
2.
A transfer of $215,423 from the Golf Course Upgrades FY18-19 Project (618280) to the Golf Course 
Well Drilling Project (618278) is approved.
63 of 1111

--- page 64 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 1 of 33
CONTRACT FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AND CONSTRUCTION OF 
THE POPLAR CREEK GOLF COURSE IRRIGATION WELL 
This Contract is by and between:
OWNER
CONTRACTOR
The City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Street
San Mateo, California 94403
Geocon Consultants, Inc.
6671 Brisa Street
Livermore, CA 94550
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK
1.01
Work
A.
Work includes both the design and construction of a new irrigation well and destruction of 
an existing irrigation well and the provision of all labor, materials, equipment, services, and 
documentation necessary to construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include 
related services such as testing, start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract 
Documents.  It is understood Contractor shall procure a subcontractor(s) for the construction 
phase of this Project. Contractor shall ensure its subcontractor(s) used to construct the 
Project comply with the provisions of this Contract.
B.
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents, 
but more specifically in the Contractor’s Proposal attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and 
incorporated herein by reference. The Project is generally described as follows:
1.
POPLAR CREEK GOLF COURSE IRRIGATION WELL PROJECT which includes the design, 
management, and installation of a test boring well, irrigation well, and removal of an 
abandoned irrigation well, and all necessary labor, materials, equipment, and 
appurtenances necessary to complete the work as called for in the Contract Documents.
2.
The Site of the Work includes property, easements, and designated work areas 
described in greater detail in the Contract Documents but generally located at 1700 
Coyote Point Dr, San Mateo, California.
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY
2.01
Defined Terms
A.
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms.
1.
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
64 of 1111

--- page 65 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 2 of 33
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material.
2.
Engineer: City of San Mateo Public Works Director or his authorized representative. 
3.
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition.
4.
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is:
a.
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer, City of San Mateo
2.01
Terminology
A.
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning.
B.
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives:
1.
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, or Engineer. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” “suitable,” 
“acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import are used to 
describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is intended that such 
exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be solely to evaluate, in 
general, the Work for compliance with the information in the Contract Documents and 
with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole as shown or indicated in 
the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement indicating otherwise). The 
use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall not be effective to assign 
to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the performance of the Work, 
or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary to the provisions of any 
provision of the Contract Documents.
C.
Day:
1.
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight.
D.
Defective:
65 of 1111

--- page 66 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 3 of 33
1.
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it:
a.
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or
b.
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or
c.
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion.
D.
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide:
1.
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition.
2.
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
3.
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use.
4.
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use.
E.
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning.
2.02
Contract Documents Defined
A.
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents:
1.
This Contract.
2.
Request for Proposals.
3.
Instructions.
4.
Contractor’s Proposal.
5.
Performance bond.
6.
Payment bond.
7.
Addenda.
8.
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows):
a.
Exhibit A – Scope of Work/Fee Schedule
b.
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements.
66 of 1111

--- page 67 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 4 of 33
9.
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract:
a.
Work Change Directives.
b.
Change Orders.
c.
Field Orders.
ARTICLE 2 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
2.01
Intent of Contract Documents
B.
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents.
C.
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder.
D.
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents.
E.
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants.
2.02
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies
F.
Reporting Discrepancies:
1.
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents.
2.
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
67 of 1111

--- page 68 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 5 of 33
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01.
3.
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof.
A.
Resolving Discrepancies:
1.
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contractor’s Proposal shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and:
a.
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier to the extent specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document and applicable to Contractor’s scope of work; or
b.
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
2.
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail.
3.
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence: 
a.
Change Order.
b.
Addenda.
c.
Contract.
d.
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
e.
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract.
f.
Owner Standard Specifications.
g.
Owner Standard Drawings.
h.
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier to the extent specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document.
i.
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation).
j.
Notice to Bidder.
k.
Instruction to Bidder.
68 of 1111

--- page 69 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 6 of 33
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT TIMES
3.01
Contract Times
A.
The Work will be substantially completed on or before September 30, 2025 and completed 
and ready for final payment on or before December 31, 2025, except as otherwise mutually 
agreed between the parties.
3.02
Delays in Contractor’s Progress Relating to Construction 
A.
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times.
B.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers.
C.
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times.
D.
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers.
3.03
Progress Schedules
A.
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR.
B.
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule.
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT PRICE
4.01
Payment
A.
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, on a time and 
materials basis, not-to-exceed $511,000.00 without prior written authorization, for all Work.
B.
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance 
with the rates set forth in Contractor’s Schedule of Fees pursuant to Exhibit A.
ARTICLE 5 - BONDS AND INSURANCE
5.01
Bonds
A.
Before starting constructed-related Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and 
a payment bond from surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds 
69 of 1111

--- page 70 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 7 of 33
in the required amounts in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be 
in an amount equal to the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and 
payment of all of Contractor’s obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in 
effect until the completion of the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any 
case, not less than one year after the date when final payment becomes due.
B.
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore
6.01
Insurance
A.
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit A.
ARTICLE 6 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES
6.01
Supervision and Superintendence
B.
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction.
C.
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances.
D.
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site.
E.
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday.
6.02
Other Work at the Site
F.
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site.
70 of 1111

--- page 71 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 8 of 33
7.03
Services, Materials, and Equipment
A.
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents.
B.
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents.
7.04
Subcontractors and Suppliers
A.
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7. 
7.05
Quality Management
A.
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents.
7.06
Licenses, Fees and Permits
A.
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others.
B.
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents.
7.07
Laws and Regulations; Taxes
A.
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations.
B.
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations.
C.
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations.
D.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
71 of 1111

--- page 72 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 9 of 33
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties. 
E.
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.  
F.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.  
G.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages in the 
construction of the Work.  The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of 
Industrial Relations of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will 
be the minimum paid to all craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall 
also require any subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to 
pay all persons performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other 
arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for 
the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  
A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is 
the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage 
rates are on file at the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the 
City Clerk’s office will not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in 
force.  In accordance with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to 
pay prevailing wages will be enforced.
H.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records for construction related work.  
I.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices for construction related work.  
J.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.  
K.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.  
L.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.  
M.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.  
N.
In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations for 
construction related work.  In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor 
72 of 1111

--- page 73 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 10 of 33
must post job site notices as required by regulation and this project will be subject to 
compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  
7.08
Record Documents
A.
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work.
7.09
Safety and Protection
A.
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work.
B.
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to:
1.
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work;
2.
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and
3.
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction.
C.
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor).
D.
To the extent applicable to Contractor’s scope of work, Contractor shall be responsible for 
coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets or other hazard communication 
information required to be made available to or exchanged between or among employers at 
the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations.
E.
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued.
7.10
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals
A.
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information.
73 of 1111

--- page 74 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 11 of 33
B.
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal.
C.
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents.
D.
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples.
E.
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs.
F.
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions.
G.
Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals.
H.
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents.
7.10
Representations
A.
Contractor represents to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the Contract 
Documents.
7.11
Correction Period
A.
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work.
7.12
Indemnification
A.
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the active negligence, sole negligence, or willful 
misconduct of the Owner.
B.
For Work relating to design professional services, Contractor agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify Owner, RPR, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against loss, liability, damage, and expense caused by Contractor’s negligence, recklessness 
or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted by state law. To the extent permitted 
by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to reimburse the defense expenses of 
Owner, RPR, and its employees against any such claims. Contractor’s duty to indemnify shall 
74 of 1111

--- page 75 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 12 of 33
survive expiration or early termination of this Contract.  In no event shall the cost to defend 
charged to Contractor exceed Contractor’s proportionate share of fault.
ARTICLE 6 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES
6.01
Owner’s Responsibilities
A.
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR.
B.
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract.
C.
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project.
D.
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination.
E.
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes, unless so delegated to Contractor.
F.
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
G.
While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed.
H.
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor.
I.
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract. 
ARTICLE 7 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION
7.01
RPR’s Status
A.
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract.
B.
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them.
C.
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work.
75 of 1111

--- page 76 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 13 of 33
D.
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents.
E.
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work.
F.
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
ARTICLE 9 - CHANGES IN THE WORK
9.01
Authority to Change the Work
D.
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work.
9.02
Change Orders
E.
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering:
1.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive;
2.
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and
3.
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12.
F.
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change.
ARTICLE 10 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS
10.01
Differing Conditions Process
G.
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
76 of 1111

--- page 77 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 14 of 33
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so.
B.
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly:
1.
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question;
2.
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition;
3.
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein;
4.
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor;
5.
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and
6.
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
C.
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part.
ARTICLE 11 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
11.01
Claims Process
H.
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto.
I.
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party.
J.
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied.
K.
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process.
11.02
Mediation
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
77 of 1111

--- page 78 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 15 of 33
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties.
ARTICLE 8 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK
8.01
Tests and Inspections
A.
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access.
B.
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests.
C.
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense.
8.02
Defective Work
A.
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective.
B.
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work.
C.
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor.
D.
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work.
E.
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work.
F.
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated.
ARTICLE 9 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR
9.01
Progress Payments
A.
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress.
9.02
Applications for Payments:
A.
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
78 of 1111

--- page 79 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 16 of 33
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment.
B.
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment.
14.02
Review of Applications
A.
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment.
B.
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement.
C.
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s negligent conduct in the performance of the 
Work, incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the 
performance of the Work.
14.03
Contractor’s Warranty of Title
A.
For all Work that is not professional services, Contractor warrants and guarantees that title 
to all Work, materials, and equipment furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free 
and clear of (1) all liens and other title defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or 
royalty obligations, no later than seven days after the time of payment by Owner.
14.04
Substantial Completion
A.
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
B.
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor.
C.
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment.
14.05
Final Inspection
A.
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
79 of 1111

--- page 80 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 17 of 33
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies.
14.07
Final Payment
A.
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents.
B.
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by:
1.
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents;
2.
Consent of the surety to final payment;
3.
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment;
4.
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and
5.
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work.
C.
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment.
14.08
Waiver of Claims
A.
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor.
B.
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted.
ARTICLE 14 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION
14.01
Owner May Suspend Work
B.
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension.
14.02
Owner May Terminate for Cause
C.
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause.
80 of 1111

--- page 81 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 18 of 33
B.
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to:
1.
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and
2.
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond.
C.
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure.
D.
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient.
E.
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner.
15.02
Owner May Terminate for Convenience
A.
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items:
1.
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work;
2.
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and
3.
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal.
B.
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination.
15.03
Contractor May Stop Work or Terminate
A.
If, through no act or fault of Contractor, (1) the Work is suspended for more than 90 
consecutive days by Owner or under an order of court or other public authority, or (2) Owner 
fails for 30 days to pay Contractor any sum finally determined to be due, then Contractor 
may, upon seven days written notice to Owner, and provided Owner does not remedy such 
suspension or failure within that time, either stop the Work until payment is received, or 
terminate the Contract and recover payment from the Owner.
81 of 1111

--- page 82 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 19 of 33
ARTICLE 10 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS
10.01
Contractor Representations
A.
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract:
1.
Contractor is responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by Contractor under this Contract. Contractor shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
2.
Contractor is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to 
be done under this Contract and that Owner relies upon the skill of Contractor to do and 
perform the work in the most skillful manner, and Contractor agrees to thus perform 
the Work. The acceptance of Contractor's work by Owner does not operate as a release 
of Contractor from said obligation
3.
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents.
4.
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
5.
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work.
6.
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on:
a.
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work;
b.
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and
c.
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs.
7.
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract.
8.
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.
9.
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor.
10. The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work.
82 of 1111

--- page 83 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 20 of 33
11. Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents.
12. Contractor represents that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any 
interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner 
or degree with the performance of the services under this Contract.
13. It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required 
under this Contract, Contractor shall at all times be considered an independent 
Contractor as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the Owner as to the 
result of the work but not the means by which the result is accomplished. Nothing herein 
shall be construed to make Contractor an agent or employee of Owner while providing 
services under this Contractor.
ARTICLE 16 - MISCELLANEOUS
16.01
Cumulative Remedies
B.
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply.
16.02
No Waiver
C.
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract. The 
subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due 
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the 
other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Contract or of any applicable law or 
ordinance.
16.03
Survival of Obligations
D.
All representations and indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, 
or given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor.
16.04
Contractor’s Certifications
E.
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract.
16.05
Controlling Law and Venue
F.
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
83 of 1111

--- page 84 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 21 of 33
17.06
Notices
A.
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract.
17.07
No Partnership or Agency
A.
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
17.08
Severability
A.
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
17.09
Waiver
A.
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives. 
17.10
Warranty
For all Work that is not professional services, Contractor warrants and guarantees that the 
materials and equipment provided shall be at least of the quality specified and new unless 
otherwise required or permitted by the contract documents and, if no quality is specified, then 
the materials and equipment shall be of commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in 
facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work performed hereunder will be free from 
defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements of the contract documents. 
84 of 1111

--- page 85 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright.
Page 22 of 33
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract.
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract).
OWNER:
CONTRACTOR:
By:
By:
Title:
Director of Parks and Recreation
Title:
Address for giving notices:
Address for giving notices:
330 West 20th Avenue
6671 Brisa Street
San Mateo, CA  94403
Livermore, CA 94550
License No.:
716050
(where applicable)
APPROVED AS TO FORM
85 of 1111

--- page 86 ---
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES/FEE SCHEDULE
Proposal No. SA-24-1374-S-EV Rev. 1 
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2024 
VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL 
City of San Mateo Public 
Works Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Attention: Stephanie Piñon, PE 
Subject: 
PROPOSAL FOR IRRIGATION WELL DESTRUCTION AND REPLACEMENT 
POPLAR CREEK GOLF COURSE 
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
Ms. Piñon: 
In accordance with your request, we are pleased to provide the City of San Mateo with this revised 
proposal for destruction of an irrigation well and installation of a replacement irrigation well at the 
Poplar Creek Golf Course in San Mateo, California. This revised proposal is based on discussions 
between Geocon and the City of San Mateo on May 10, 2024 and supersedes the scope of services 
outlined in our original submittal dated February 20, 2024.  
PROJECT BACKGROUND 
Poplar Creek Golf Course (the site) is a City-owned golf course that is currently irrigated by 
groundwater sourced from one irrigation well located south of the site. A second well is required to 
meet the site’s water demand. There is an abandoned well onsite that is required to be destroyed 
prior to incorporating the second well into the irrigation water system. 
The abandoned well is approximately 192 feet deep with an 8–inch diameter stainless steel well 
casing screened from 87 – 187 feet. The last depth to water measurement was 14.35 feet below top 
of case. Based on public records, the existing well is approximately 300 feet deep with a 10-inch 
diameter stainless steel casing screened from 164 to 290 feet.  
Water is pumped from the irrigation well into retention ponds and then distributed throughout the 
site via a sprinkler system. Peak water usage is during the summer months with an estimated peak 
water usage of 350,000 gallons per day.  
86 of 1111

--- page 87 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 24 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
Water sourced from the existing on-site well and proposed well will be exclusively used for irrigation. 
It will not be used for drinking water or sanitation. 
The purpose of our services is to provide hydrogeological consulting services for a new irrigation well, 
destruction of an abandoned irrigation well, and investigation of the condition of the existing well.  
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
Task 1 –Project Management, Subcontractor Coordination, and Performance Bond 
The project manager will submit milestone progress reports including summary of completed 
activities, proposed activities for milestone, issues affecting project delivery, scope, schedule, or 
budget, consultants’ actions to mitigate issues, summary of project decisions, updated project 
schedule, budget status, percent of work complete and cost to complete remaining work, and other 
important project information. The Project manager and/or the contract manager will attend both 
virtual and in-person meetings with the City.  
Geocon will retain subcontractors for water well drilling and pump installation, downhole geophysical 
surveys, utility location, and disposal services. 
Per the request of the City of San Mateo, Geocon will procure a performance bond to ensure the 
borehole drilling and subsequent borehole abandonment or well construction is performed in general 
accordance with San Mateo County Environmental Health Services (SMCEHS) and California 
Department of Water Resources (DWR) requirements. The performance bond term will be one year 
and is included in this proposal. Performance bond extensions beyond one year, if desired, will be 
procured via change order. It is important to note that the performance bond is not intended to cover 
items beyond Geocon’s control such as well yield, water quality, etc. 
Task 2 – Site Investigation 
Task 2a – Records Review  
We will review records from City of San Mateo, San Mateo County Environmental Health Services 
(SMCEHS), San Mateo County Office of Sustainability, and California Department of Water Resources 
(DWR). 
Task 2b – Permitting 
We will prepare a Water Well Application for the installation of an agricultural well and pay the fee to 
the SMCEHS.  
A hydrogeologic study will be an assessment of the potential for operation of the new well to 
interfere with the production and functioning of existing wells and the potential for operation of the 
new well to cause subsidence that would adversely impact or damage nearby infrastructure. They 
hydrogeologic study will meet the requirements under Executive Orders N-7-22 and N-3-23, issued by 
Governor Newsom in 2022 and 2023, respectively. As such, the hydrogeologic study will also function 
as the Licensed Professional Report required under the cited Executive Orders for new well permit 
applications.  Per the applicable provisions of the Executive Orders, the hydrogeologic study must 
conclude that extraction of groundwater from the new well: 
•
Is not likely to interfere with the production and functioning of existing nearby wells; and
87 of 1111

--- page 88 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 25 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
•
Is not likely to cause subsidence that would adversely impact or damage nearby infrastructure.
Task 2c – Site Reconnaissance 
Geocon, Guardino Well Drilling (Guardino), and Advanced Geological Services (AGS) will visit the site 
prior to mobilization. Guardino and Geocon will work with City staff to establish a route for the drill 
rig and supporting truck and equipment that will minimize impact to the vegetation and ground 
surface.  
Geocon and City staff will agree on the boring location and mark it with a stake. Geocon and Guardino 
will mark for underground service alert (USA 811) and submit the ticket at least 3 business days prior 
to drilling.  
Task 2d – Utility Survey 
AGS will provide subsurface utility mapping services. AGS will survey the area within a 50-foot radius 
of the proposed pilot hole and within a 50-foot radius of the existing irrigation well. We selected this 
radius to allow flexibility in case the proposed pilot boring will need to be relocated due to utilities or 
other underground obstacles.   
AGS will utilize the following methods to locate subsurface utilities: 
•
Radiofrequency (RF) device and Transmitter
•
Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR)
•
M-Scope
Found utilities or any other subsurface objects will be marked in the field with pin flags. AGS will 
record their locations using a handheld GPS. AGS will produce an electronic data delivery file with the 
results of the utility survey.  Geocon will generate a plan sheet showing the location of utilities and 
other subsurface features to be included in the report (Task 4e). 
Task 2e – Pilot Hole Drilling 
Guardino will advance the pilot hole at the site in accordance with DWR California Well and SMCEHS 
standards. Guardino will use truck-mounted, mud- rotary drilling equipment and advance the test 
hole to a maximum target depth of 400 feet with a borehole diameter of 8 inches. 
We will observe the test hole drilling, collect and log samples of the drill cuttings, and document the 
conditions encountered during drilling. Lithological logging will be performed by a California 
Professional Geologist. We will maintain a daily field log of the test hole drilling and associated 
activities, record depth to water. We will collect lithologic samples approximately every 10 feet 
logging and sieve analysis, if needed. We will monitor and record the concentration of total dissolved 
solids in the circulated drilling mud using a handheld field meter.  
Upon completion of the pilot hole, Stewart Well Logging will perform a downhole geophysical survey. 
Survey parameters will include long and short normal resistivity, spontaneous potential, and gamma. 
The results (the electric log) will be reviewed by a Geocon California Certified Hydrogeologist. Results 
of the electric log will provide estimated concentration of total dissolved solids in the water bearing 
zones. 
88 of 1111

--- page 89 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 26 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
Based on those results, Guardino and Geocon’s on-site Professional Geologist will submit a 
preliminary well design to Geocon’s Certified Hydrogeologist for approval. The approved well design, 
lithological log, and e-log will be submitted to the appropriate stakeholders at City of San Mateo for 
approval.  
Once approved, we will proceed to Task 3. 
If a test hole is determined to produce water of insufficient quantity, unsuitable quality, or has other 
unforeseen problems, it will be abandoned in accordance with SMCEHS permit requirements. The 
minimum well yield to justify construction of a well is approximately 350 gallons per minute (gpm). 
For the purposes of this proposal, we have not included costs for test hole abandonment and will 
utilize funds from Task 3 to cover the costs of abandonment. 
Disposal of discharged water is described in Task 2g. 
Task 2f – Sieve Analysis (if needed) 
We do not anticipate the need for grain size analysis for filter pack selection. We have included this 
task if the need arises.  
We assume 5 samples will be submitted for grain sized analysis. Geocon will perform grain size 
analysis to #200 sieve by method American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D6913. Geocon’s 
accredited laboratory in Rancho Cordova will perform sieve analysis. Samples will be run on a rush 
turn-around time of 4 days.  
Task 2g – Disposal of Soil Cuttings and Drilling Mud 
Guardino will utilize a mud shaker to separate the soil cuttings from the drilling mud during drilling. 
Guardino will place soil cuttings into a 20 cubic-yard soil bin stationed adjacent to the drilling area. At 
the completion of drilling, the drilling mud will be placed in dewatering bins.  
Samples of the cuttings and drilling fluid will be sampled by the field geologist and submitted to 
Torrent Laboratory for the following analysis: 
•
Leaking Underground Fuel Tank 5 metals by EPA 6010B;
•
VOCs by EPA 8260B;
•
SVOCs by EPA 8270C; and
•
Gasoline, diesel, and oil range organics by EPA 8260B.
Samples will be transported to Torrent in a cooler with ice under chain-of-custody procedures. Upon 
receipt of the laboratory results, we will submit to Intrinsic Transportation, Inc. (Intrinsic) for 
transport and disposal. 
Intrinsic will transport the soil cuttings and drilling mud to Recology Hay Road Landfill in Vacaville. We 
assume the soil cuttings and drilling mud can be disposed of as non-hazardous waste.  
89 of 1111

--- page 90 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 27 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
Task 3 – Well Construction, Development, and Sampling 
Task 3a – Well Construction 
Guardino will ream the boring using boring using mud rotary drilling methods, install a well casing, 
filter pack, and sanitary seal per state water well standards. For this task we assume the following 
well construction details: 
•
20 feet of 20-inch diameter mild steel conductor casing to be cemented in;
•
200 feet of 10-inch diameter SDR17 PVC blank well casing;
•
200 feet of 10-inch diameter SDR17 PVC screened well casing;
•
Centralizers at intervals that comply with DWR well standards;
•
300 feet of 8x16 filter pack sand;
•
100 feet of 10.3 sack cement for a 2-inch annular seal; and
•
4-foot by 4-foot by 6-inch cement well pad.
Final well design will vary and will be based on the outcome of Task 2. However, we do not anticipate 
a well deeper than 400 feet. 
Task 3b – Well Development 
Depending on conditions encountered, Guardino will develop the well by using surging, air lifting, 
brushing, and/or pumping. Guardino will utilize additives such as Mud Knox (a dispersant), clay 
remover, and chlorine as needed. During development, Geocon will record field parameters including 
pH, electrical conductivity, total dissolved solids, turbidity, and temperature. Well development will 
be considered complete when water quality parameters are stable as defined by the EPA. We assume 
well development will take 20 hours to complete. 
When well development is complete, we will collect a water sample and submit it under chain-
ofcustody to Torrent Laboratory to analyze for the following analyses: 
•
Total dissolved solids by Standard Method (SM) 2540C;
•
Calcium, chloride, fluoride, potassium, magnesium, sodium, and sulfate by EPA 200/300 series;
•
Hardness by SM 2340B;
•
Total, bicarbonate, carbonate, and hydroxide alkalinity by SM 2320B;
•
Nitrate as N by EPA 300;
•
Specific Conductance by SM 2510B; and
•
Total Drinking Water Metals (aluminum, antimony, arsenic, barium, beryllium, boron, cadmium, 
chromium, copper, iron, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel, selenium, silver, thallium, vanadium, 
and zinc) by EPA 200/300 series.
Analysis will be completed on a standard turn-around time. 
Task 3c – Disposal of Well Development Water 
90 of 1111

--- page 91 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 28 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
This task is the same as Task 2g. 
Task 4 – Temporary Pump Installation, Yield Testing, and Permanent Pump Installation 
Task 4a – Temporary Pump Installation and Yield Testing 
We will prepare and submit SMCEHS Pump Test Permit Application and pay the fee.  
Guardino will install a temporary pump rated for 500 gallons per minute (gpm), temporary power, 
totalizer, sounding tube, and discharge hose or pipe. We will estimate the well’s long-term production 
rate (yield) by performing a step-drawdown test, a 12-hour constant-rate test, and a 12-hour recovery 
test.  Water level will be collected by a transducer equipped with a data logger. 
During testing, Geocon will record field parameters including pH, electrical conductivity, total 
dissolved solids, turbidity, and temperature. Due to construction of the existing well, we will not 
monitor water levels in the existing well. However, the existing well must be shut off during the test. 
We assume that water generated during yield testing can be discharged on site into a holding pond to 
use as irrigation water. If not, we will dispose the discharged water as described in Task 2g. However, 
a change order will be required.  
Task 4b – Final Water Quality Test 
At the completion of recovery test, we will purge at three well volumes and collect the final water 
quality sample which will include the following analyses described in Task 3b. 
Analysis will be completed on a standard turn-a-round time. 
We assume that water generated during purging testing can be discharged on site into a holding pond 
to use as irrigation water. If not, we will dispose of the discharged water as described in Task 2g. 
Task 4c – Permanent Pump Selection 
Geocon will calculate specific capacity of the new well and local aquifer characteristics. Calculations 
will be performed by a California Professional Geologist and reviewed by a Certified Hydrogeologist. 
Results and analysis will be submitted to Guardino for pump selection. 
Geocon will present pump selection options with a cost estimate for installation to relevant City 
stakeholders. 
For the cost estimate we assume the following pump specifications: 
•
6" submersible pump with 460-volt motor rated for 500 gallons per minute;
•
Pump will set at 360 feet with 4” PVC Certa-lok drop pipe;
•
1-inch sounding tube (for future groundwater monitoring compliance);
•
#4 submersible pump cable; and
•
100-amp pump panel with starter, fuses, and relays, and discharge fittings mounted on a wood 
backboard.
91 of 1111

--- page 92 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 29 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
A totalizer is not included in this cost estimate as irrigation piping specifications are unknown at the 
time of preparing this proposal. We will incorporate the cost of a totalizer as part of Task 5.  
Task 4d – Permanent Pump Installation 
Pump installation will proceed when the City project staff approve the pump specifications and cost 
estimate in writing. Upon receiving approval of pump selection in writing, Geocon will oversee 
Guardino’s installation of the permanent pump and chlorination. 
Guardino will demonstrate to City staff the use of the pump and electrical connections. 
The electrical connection from the pump the control box is included in the pump connection. The City 
is responsible for the permanent electrical connection. 
Task 4e – Documentation and Reporting 
We will prepare a report summarizing the results of the pilot hole drilling including copies of 
associated permits, exploratory test hole boring log, well construction details, pump test data and 
analysis, laboratory reports, and well completion reports required by the California Department of 
Water Resources. 
We will also include recommendations for well maintenance and monitoring. 
Task 5 – Plans and Cost Estimate for Above Ground Infrastructure   
Geocon will retain Brigantino Irrigation, Inc of Hollister, California to develop design criteria and 
assumptions for the above ground infrastructure connecting the new irrigation well to the irrigation 
pond. Brigantino Irrigation, Inc will prepare the deliverables including a plan sheet, specification, and 
cost estimate.  
Task 6 – Destruction of Inactive Irrigation Well 
Task 6a – Permitting  
We will prepare a well destruction workplan and Subsurface Drilling Permit Application, pay the 
associated permit fee to SMCEHS. 
Task 6b – Well Destruction 
Guardino will retain McMillan’s Well Service, LLC (McMillan) for blast perforation services. Guardino 
will remove all piping and tooling from inside the well and around the well pad. Guardino will then set 
a clean 2” tremie pipe to the bottom of the well. McMillan will deploy depth-discrete explosive 
charges packed with projectiles connected to detonating cord from the bottom of the well casing to 
10 feet below surface at approximate 10-foot intervals. Guardino will pump neat cement to 
approximately 5 feet below grade (dependent on condition of the well casing). McMillan will detonate 
the explosives charges and verify the charges donated. Guardino will resume pumping neat cement 
until the top of the cement is approximately 5 feet below ground surface. Guardino will excavate 5 
feet below grade remove and dispose of well head features and return to rough grade. Any well head 
items that Guardino cannot dispose of, Intrinsic will dispose of as non-hazardous waste. 
92 of 1111

--- page 93 ---
Poplar Creek Golf Course 
Revised Proposal for Irrigation Well Destruction and Replacement 
Geocon Proposal No. SA-24-0091-S-EV Rev. 1 
- 30 -
August 1, 2024 
Revised May 13, 2025 
We anticipate Task 6b and Task 3a to be completed in a single mobilization. Disposal costs are 
included in Task 2g. 
Task 6c – Documentation and Reporting 
Guardino and Geocon will submit the required well destruction documentation to DWR and SMCEHS. 
We prepare a well destruction letter summarizing well destruction activities for the City of San Mateo.  
COST ESTIMATE 
 Scope of Services Cost Estimate 
TASK 1 - Project Management and Coordination 
$19,860 
TASK 2 - Site Investigation 
$115,504 
TASK 3 - Well Construction, Development, and Sampling 
$218,069 
TASK 4 – Temporary Pump Installation, Yield Testing, and Permanent Pump Installation 
$102,926 
TASK 5 – Plans and Cost Estimate for Above Ground Infrastructure  
$7,170 
TASK 6 – Destruction of Inactive Irrigation Well 
$47,382 
Total: 
$510,911 
We appreciate the opportunity to provide you with this revised proposal for this project. Please 
contact us if you have any questions concerning this proposal or if we may be of further service. 
Sincerely, 
GEOCON CONSULTANTS, INC. 
Lauren E. 
Short, PG 
Project Geologist 
Attachment: 
Cost Estimate Worksheet 
Accepted Legal Agreement (Clean Copy) 
Accepted Legal Agreement (Redline Copy) 
Richard Day PG CEG CHG
Senior Geologist/ President
93 of 1111

--- page 94 ---
EXHIBIT B
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
ARTICLE 1 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
1.01
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
1.02
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
A.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
B.
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
C.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
D.
Surety Bonds as described below.
E.
Professional Liability with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or claim, and 
$2,000,000 policy aggregate.
F.
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
1.03
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City.
1.04
Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, and employees; or the 
Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy 
94 of 1111

--- page 95 ---
language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied 
by either the named insured or City.
ARTICLE 2 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS 
2.01
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
A.
The City, its officers, officials, and employees are to be covered as additional insureds on 
the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection 
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on 
behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 
85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used).
B.
For Auto Liability, General Liability, and Pollution liability claims, the Contractor’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as 
respects the City, its officers, officials, and employees. Any insurance or self-insurance 
maintained by the City, its officers, officials, or employees shall be excess of the Contractor’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
C.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City.
2.02
Claims Made Policies
A.
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1.
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work.
2.
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
3.
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work. 
4.
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review. 
5.
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold. 
2.03
Acceptability of Insurers 
A.
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
95 of 1111

--- page 96 ---
2.04
Waiver of Subrogation 
A.
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors. 
2.05
Verification of Coverage 
A.
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time.
2.06
Subcontractors 
A.
To the extent applicable to the subcontractors’ scope of work and trade, Contractor shall 
require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all requirements stated 
herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required 
from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form 
at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
2.07
Bonds 
A.
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1.
Performance Bond
2.
Payment Bond
3.
Maintenance Bond
B.
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California.
2.08
Special Risks or Circumstances.  
A.
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.
96 of 1111

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6143
File ID: 25-9998
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project – Construction Management Services Contract Award
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to 4LEAF, Inc. (Consultant) for construction management services for the East Hillsdale Park Playground 
Improvements Project (Project); on a time and expense reimbursement basis for actual work performed, in an amount of 
$200,000; authorize a contingency amount of $30,000, for a total amount not to exceed $230,000; and authorize the Parks 
and Recreation Director to execute the contract, in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Parks and Recreation Department does not have sufficient staff resources to inspect and oversee all construction 
activities, therefore requiring third-party construction management and inspection to augment city resources. On 
February 25, 2025, a request for proposals was issued for construction management services for the playground 
improvements project at East Hillsdale Park. 
The scope of work for construction management services includes managing all communication between the City and the 
contractor during the construction of the playground improvements, providing construction management and inspection 
services, ensuring that the contractor constructs the project in compliance with the contract documents, the conditions of 
the City’s construction permit, monitoring the construction schedule, ensuring tree protection and preservation 
compliance, negotiating change order requests, reviewing contractor’s application for payment, providing inspections 
reports, close-out services, and other construction support services. 
Staff received a total of six (6) proposals from 4LEAF, Inc., Alpha CM, CM Consolidated, Consor PMCM, Inc., MNS 
Engineers, Inc., and Roebbelen Management, Inc. Consultants were evaluated on several key components as part of the 
proposal process including project understanding, experience with similar projects, the technical ability of key staff, 
proposed construction management services, and corresponding fee schedule. Four of the six proposals were found to be 
incomplete because of missing services, resumes or fee schedules. Two proposals were found to be complete with all 
requested services and information. Upon further evaluation, the proposal from 4LEAF, Inc. was found to be the most 
responsive. Past client references provided by 4LEAF were vetted by staff and received positive referrals. For the East 
Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project, staff recommend awarding a contract for construction management 
services to 4LEAF, Inc. on an hourly rate plus expense reimbursement basis for actual work performed, in an amount of 
$200,000 and establish a 15 percent contingency of $30,000, for a total amount not to exceed $230,000. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient budget funds to cover the construction management services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
97 of 1111

--- page 98 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This contract for construction management services is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty 
that it will not cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065). 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Contract
STAFF CONTACT
King Leong, Sr. Project Manager
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7542
98 of 1111

--- page 99 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 29
Rev 12/23
AGREEMENT WITH 4LEAF, INC.
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR 
EAST HILLSDALE PARK PLAYGROUND IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of April 22, 2025, by and between the CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California (“CITY”), and 
4LEAF, INC., a corporation  (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 2126 Rheem Drive, Pleasanton, CA 
94588.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain construction management services hereinafter described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these construction management 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
99 of 1111

--- page 100 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 29
Rev 12/23
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on June 16, 2025 and be 
completed on December 31, 2026.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $200,000 pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
100 of 1111

--- page 101 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 29
Rev 12/23
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
101 of 1111

--- page 102 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 29
Rev 12/23
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
102 of 1111

--- page 103 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 29
Rev 12/23
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Joanne Magrini
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave.,
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
4LEAF, Inc.
Attn: Gene Barry
2126 Rheem Drive, 
Pleasanton, CA 94588
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
103 of 1111

--- page 104 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 29
Rev 12/23
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and 4LEAF, INC. have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Joanne Magrini
Parks and Recreation Director
Date
Gene Barry
Its Authorized Agent
Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Kevin Duggan
President / Secretary
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
104 of 1111

--- page 105 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 29
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
The Scope of Service contemplated for the East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project include, but is 
not limited to the following: 
1.
Construction Management and Inspection Services.
a.
Act as construction project coordinator and the point of contact for all communications and interaction 
with the contractor, affected local agencies and design consultant.
b.
Coordination with the City’s Project Manager.
c.
Provide administrative support including, but not limited to, maintaining project files, convening 
necessary meetings, providing meeting notes, monthly progress reports, photographic documentation, 
pay application reviews/negotiations and on-site observation. 
d.
Provide, administer, and use web-based Project software site for purposes of hosting and managing 
Project communication and documentation until Final Completion.
e.
Ensure all permits are pulled and inspections are conducted.
▪
Construction permit and renewal of expired permits.
f.
Inspect and ensure Contractor’s compliance of 
▪
tree protection measures and fencing.
▪
erosion Control BMP’s and SWPPP
▪
construction site fencing and safety protocols.
g.
Review scheduled submittals and provide schedule management support.
h.
Ensure product and deferred submittals are submitted and processed in a timely manner.
i.
Oversee the RFI process.
j.
Evaluate, negotiate, recommend, and prepare change orders.
k.
Perform field inspection activities, monitor contractor’s performance and enforce all requirements of 
applicable codes, specifications, and contract drawings.
l.
Oversee quality control and materials testing.
m. Ensure all special inspections including structural, geotechnical, soils and materials testing, as required 
by the project are scheduled and completed.
n.
Ensure all play equipment are installed per manufacturer’s instructions and pass safety inspections 
performed by a certified by a Certified Playground Safety Inspector.
o.
Schedule, manage, perform and document all field and laboratory testing services as provided in project 
specifications.
p.
All reports, calculations, measurements, test data and other documentation shall be prepared on forms 
specified by or otherwise acceptable to the City.
q.
Review and monitor the construction schedule. Prepare weekly reports documenting the progress of 
construction. Take photographs and videotape recordings of the construction progress on a regular 
basis.
105 of 1111

--- page 106 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 29
Rev 12/23
r.
Prepare and recommend progress payments.
s.
Identify potential claims and make recommendations to resolve said claims.
t.
Daily reports, extra work diaries, materials testing reports, and other reports shall be submitted to the 
City. 
u.
Provide final punch-list inspection services and project closeout activities, including preparation of the 
final construction project report.
v.
Turn over all As-builts and conformed construction documents to the City.
w. Provide close-out support including site furniture, fixtures and equipment installations, punch list 
management, O&M manuals, as-built reference documentation review, final release of retention pay 
review and warranty work management.
2.
Hazardous Materials Compliance Services.
Consultant to provide coordination for regulatory compliance for removal, containment, abatement, and 
disposal of hazardous materials including regulated asbestos containing materials and piping, lead 
containing paints, smoke detectors which may contain a radioactive element or contaminated soil.  Services 
to be provided shall include
a.
Pre-Abatement and Post-Abatement Submittal Review. Review of all contractor submittals related to 
asbestos and lead abatement, including work plans, safety procedures, and material specifications, 
verify that each submittal complies with applicable regulations and project specifications before work 
begins, and provide written recommendations for adjustments required to address any noted 
discrepancies or issues. After the abatement work is completed, review all final submittals, including 
clearance testing results and project closeout documents, confirm that the abatement work has been 
completed in accordance with the approved specifications and that all necessary documentation is in 
order.
106 of 1111

--- page 107 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 29
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
Construction Management Services
Invoices shall be submitted by the 20th day of the following month of services.
BASIS OF CHARGES 
A. Rates shown assume projects under this contract will require compliance with California Prevailing Wage rate requirements and 
assumes the Client will be filing a PWC-100 Form to the California Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) for the project. 
B. Rates for prevailing wage categories are subject to annual escalations in accordance with the bi-annual wage determinations 
from the California DIR. Rates based on California DIR’s wage determinations dated August 2024. 
C. Per the new requirements being enforced under SB 854 and because it is assumed that a PWC-100 Form will be filed by the 
Client to the CA DIR for the project, 4LEAF is required to notify an authorized Apprenticeship Committee through submittal of a 
DAS-140 form. We are then required to make an official request to an authorized Apprenticeship Committee for an apprentice 
by submitting a DAS142 form. We are not assured the apprenticeship committee will be able to provide a suitable/qualified 
apprentice for the project. Per the apprenticeship requirements, the hours worked by the apprentice must be at a ratio of 1:5 
for apprentice to journeyman hours. 4LEAF will not know the labor classification of the Public Works Apprentice until an 
Apprentice is dispatched to the site; therefore, the rates for the five Periods listed under the California DIR’s Wage 
determination for Building Construction Inspector issued August 2024 were used to determine the range of Calendar Year 2024 
hourly rates for Public Works Inspector Apprentice. 
D. All invoicing will be submitted monthly. 
E. Overtime and Premium time will be charged as follows: 
- Night Time (work begun after 4PM or before 5AM) 1.125 x hourly rate 
- Overtime 1 (over 8 hours M-F or Saturdays) 1.35 x hourly rate 
- Overtime 2 (over 8 hours Sat or 1st 8 hour Sun) 1.85 x hourly rate 
- Overtime 3 (over 8 hours Sun or Holidays) 2.35 x hourly rate
F. All work with less than 8 hours rest between shifts will be charged the appropriate overtime rate. 
G. Subconsultant invoices will be assessed a 10% Administrative Processing Fee. 
H. Project-related mileage for inspections will be billed at the allowable IRS Rate. 
I. Payment due on receipt. All payments over 30 days will be assessed as a 1.5% interest charge. 
J. Intentionally deleted.
K. Intentionally deleted.
L. In accordance with California’s Meal Break and Rest Break Law requirements, Client will be billed one (1) additional hour per day 
at the regular rate for each missed meal or rest break due to Client-directed tasks or requirements. Client should allow 4LEAF’s 
nonexempt, hourly employees the opportunity to take their entitled rest and meal breaks during each work shift. 
M. If 4LEAF is requested or otherwise required to conform to Client’s alternative workweek schedule (“AWW”), Client hereby 
agrees to compensate or reimburse 4LEAF for all overtime paid to its employees who work an AWW. If 4LEAF’s affected 
employment group approves an AWW election and the same is registered, overtime compensation/reimbursement shall not be 
required.
107 of 1111

--- page 108 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 29
Rev 12/23
108 of 1111

--- page 109 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 29
Rev 12/23
Inspections
109 of 1111

--- page 110 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 29
Rev 12/23
    
INSURANCE – Intentionally deleted
110 of 1111

--- page 111 ---
Professional Services
Page 13 of 29
Rev 12/23
111 of 1111

--- page 112 ---
Professional Services
Page 14 of 29
Rev 12/23
112 of 1111

--- page 113 ---
Professional Services
Page 15 of 29
Rev 12/23
 
113 of 1111

--- page 114 ---
Professional Services
Page 16 of 29
Rev 12/23
Hazardous Materials
 
114 of 1111

--- page 115 ---
Professional Services
Page 17 of 29
Rev 12/23
Certified Arborist
Certified Playground Safety Inspector 
115 of 1111

--- page 116 ---
Professional Services
Page 18 of 29
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate.
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
116 of 1111

--- page 117 ---
Professional Services
Page 19 of 29
Rev 12/23
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
117 of 1111

--- page 118 ---
Professional Services
Page 20 of 29
Rev 12/23
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
118 of 1111

--- page 119 ---
Professional Services
Page 21 of 29
Rev 12/23
119 of 1111

--- page 120 ---
Professional Services
Page 22 of 29
Rev 12/23
120 of 1111

--- page 121 ---
Professional Services
Page 23 of 29
Rev 12/23
121 of 1111

--- page 122 ---
Professional Services
Page 24 of 29
Rev 12/23
122 of 1111

--- page 123 ---
Professional Services
Page 25 of 29
Rev 12/23
123 of 1111

--- page 124 ---
Professional Services
Page 26 of 29
Rev 12/23
124 of 1111

--- page 125 ---
Professional Services
Page 27 of 29
Rev 12/23
125 of 1111

--- page 126 ---
Professional Services
Page 28 of 29
Rev 12/23
126 of 1111

--- page 127 ---
Professional Services
Page 29 of 29
Rev 12/23
127 of 1111

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6143
File ID: 25-9999
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure for awarding a purchase contract with Miracle 
Playsystems (Vendor) for the purchase of playground equipment, for the East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements 
Project (Project) in the amount of $191,246.54; authorize a contingency amount of $19,124.65 for a total amount not to 
exceed $210,371.19; and authorize the Parks & Recreation Director to execute the contract in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
In 2020, a survey was conducted to identify what the community would expect to see from a potential playground update 
at East Hillsdale Park. The preference from the surrounding residents was for a consolidated location for a new play area 
on the Northern side of the park, with separate play areas for toddlers and older kids, no restroom and no BBQs. With the 
neighborhood preference in mind, the Parks and Recreation Department solicited several designs for consideration prior 
to the preparation of construction plans to be used for public bidding. 
On October 28, 2021, a virtual community meeting was held where residents reviewed the design alternatives and related 
documents. There was consensus amongst attendees strongly suggesting that the designs be reconsidered with a "less is 
better" approach. 
In January 2022, a follow up community meeting was held to present the revised play area design along with alternative 
play equipment designs and answered general questions about the park tree plan and park infrastructure. Each of the 
three alternative play equipment designs were prepared by a different play equipment manufacturer. The community’s 
preferred play equipment design was Hags Equipment, by Miracle Playsystems. In addition, the community noted concerns 
with the existing irrigation system, poor stormwater drainage and the deteriorated condition of the perimeter pathway 
around the park. These issues would be studied in the design development phase and addressed in the final set of 
construction documents. 
In March 2022, staff provided a project update to the Park & Recreation Commission and presented the community 
preferred play equipment design. A majority of the Commissioners were in support of the Hags Equipment by Miracle 
Playsystems. 
In 2024, construction documents were completed by the design consultant, Callander Associates Landscape Architects. 
The playground improvements scope of work included the protection of existing trees, demolishing existing play 
equipment and pathways, excavation and grading, installing new playground equipment, new play area safety surfacing, 
new pathway paving, adding more pathway lighting and switching to LED lamps, improving the stormwater drain system, 
128 of 1111

--- page 129 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
site furnishings, synthetic turf, irrigation and landscaping.  The city will purchase the new play equipment and provide it to 
the Contractor to install as part of their scope of work.
Construction cost savings would be achieved by utilizing an alternative purchasing procedure to purchase the playground 
equipment directly from the Vendor, securing a discounted price and avoiding a contractor mark-up. The Vendor is a 
participating vendor with Sourcewell, a purchasing cooperative for educational, governmental and non-profit agencies, 
thereby ensuring a competitive price and saving time and resources for participating agencies. For this reason, it is in the 
best interest to use an alternative purchasing procedure pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) in 
this case. 
Based on the above, staff recommends for City Council to adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing 
procedure for awarding a purchase contract to Miracle Playsystems, for playground equipment, in the amount of 
$191,246.54. Staff also recommend establishing a 10 percent contingency reserve in an amount not to exceed $19,124.65 
to address any unanticipated items that may arise due to market volatility, inflation, or installation, for a total budget not 
to exceed $210,371.19. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient budget funds available for the Project to cover the purchase of the playground equipment and 
contingency reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.). The purchase of the play equipment by the city will not cause a physical change to the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Proposed Contract
STAFF CONTACT
King Leong, Sr. Project Manager
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7542
129 of 1111

--- page 130 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION No. __ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A PURCHASE CONTRACT WITH MIRACLE 
PLAYSYSTEMS FOR PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT FOR THE EAST HILLSDALE PARK PLAYGROUND IMPROVEMENTS 
PROJECT 
WHEREAS, cost savings would be achieved by purchasing playground equipment from Miracle 
Playsystems (Vendor) for the East Hillsdale Park Playground Improvements Project, to be installed by the 
contractor; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve alternative 
purchasing procedures upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is in the best interest of the City; 
and
WHEREAS, the Vendor is a participating vendor with Sourcewell, which is a purchasing cooperative for 
educational, governmental and non-profit agencies, thereby ensuring a competitive price and saving time and 
resources for participating agencies; and 
WHEREAS, purchasing directly from the Vendor, through Sourcewell, the City will receive a discounted 
price, and avoid a contractor’s cost mark-up; and
WHEREAS, the City would purchase the play equipment, to be installed by the contractor; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends approval of the purchase of the play 
equipment from the Vendor because it is in the best interest of the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or 
private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no 
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) 
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of the playground equipment 
from the Vendor, a participating vendor with Sourcewell, is in the City’s best interest. 
130 of 1111

--- page 131 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 7
Rev 1/24
ATTACHMENT 1
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
FROM MIRACLE PLAYSYSTEMS
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of June 16, 2025, by 
and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and MIRACLE PLAYSYSTEMS, a Corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase play equipment hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide the play equipment by reason of its 
qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to 
this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  This 
purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date 
of receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase 
order number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, 330 
West 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 Attn: King Leong, or emailed to the following email address: 
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org.
131 of 1111

--- page 132 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 7
Rev 1/24
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be 
made at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for 
delivery.  Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the 
time specified or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof 
without liability except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or 
acceptance of all or part of a non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, 
right or remedy the CITY has under this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified 
in this Contract.  All shipments shall be delivered and unloaded at the project site at 123 31st 
Avenue Ave., San Mateo, 94403.  Transportation charges shall be shown as a separate item on the 
invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY 
shall have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt 
by the CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have 
accepted any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to 
have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-
conformance.  VENDOR shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective 
goods.  Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense 
arising out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s 
sole negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
132 of 1111

--- page 133 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 7
Rev 1/24
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, 
stating the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR 
shall stop performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, 
VENDOR shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and 
accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable 
for goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, 
rules and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and 
maintain throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the 
manufacture, sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or 
claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of 
all machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are 
free and clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the 
CITY harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any 
kind growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to 
defend such claims, suits or actions.
133 of 1111

--- page 134 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 7
Rev 1/24
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition 
of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver 
of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of 
the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either 
party of any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a 
waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition 
of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any 
of its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, 
national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless 
based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and 
Housing Act. 
134 of 1111

--- page 135 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 7
Rev 1/24
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted 
to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the 
California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator 
shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
 
VENDOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
VENDOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based 
upon VENDOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, 
testimony, and travel at VENDOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Joanne Magrini
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403
To VENDOR:
Miracle Playsystems
Attn: Jean Tyan
6114 La Salle Ave., #463
Oakland, CA 94611
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
135 of 1111

--- page 136 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 7
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and MIRACLE PLAYSYSTEMS have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Joanne Magrini
Director of Parks & Recreation
Date
Kit Stevens
President
Miracle Playsystems
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
136 of 1111

--- page 137 ---
EXHIBIT A

Miracle This Quote Includes a Sourcewell Discount (Contract# 010521-LTS)

737 RISK MANAGEMENT SIGN-ENGLISH 3 $400.00 $1,044.00 $100.49

71474959U 6'2" TYPSLIDE 405 DEG DOMED WAVE |1 $8,757.00 $7,618.59 $733.31
(5' DECK)

714670 CHAMELEON II ENTRY & EXIT (2'6" - 1 $3,516.00 $3,058.92 $294.43
4'6" DECK), INCLUDES
#714670EZ/7146704/714670PZ
Oty.1/EA

7147265 MOGUL SLIDE-ONE PIECE (5' DECK) 1 $2,737.00 $2,381.19 $229.18

2840 SWG PART SLASH PROOF SEAT 3 $159.00 $414.99 $39.95
W/CHAIN (8' TR)

2740 SWG PART INCLUSIVE SWG SEAT 2 $1,591.00 $2,768.34 $266.45
W/CHAIN (8' TR)

2760 SWG PART GENERATION SWG SEAT 1 $1,298.00 $1,129.26 $108.69
W/CHAIN

2990 SWG PART TOT SEAT 360 DEG 2 $232.00 $403.68 $38.86
W/CHAIN (8' TR)

MREC EQUIP MIRACLE EQUIPMENT - 994167FG - 3 $202.00 $527.22 $50.74
FRICTION WEAR MAT 32" X 54"
FOREST GREEN

HAGS

EQUIP6 HAGS Equipment - 2-5 Play Structure $53,077.22 $46,177.18

EQUIP HAGS Equipment - 5-12 Play Structure |1 $56,687.51 $49,318.13 $4,746.88

EQUIP6 HAGS Equipment - Spin R2- With Two |1 $24,485.96 $21,302.79 $2,050.40
Seats, Cast In Place

EQUIPE HAGS Equipment - Swingo - Cast In 1 $7,715.26 $6,712.28 $646.06
Place

EQUIP6 HAGS Equipment - Goro Swing Frame - |2 $3,025.94 $5,265.14 $506.76
4 Places, 4 Seater- Cast In Place

EQUIPS

UPC Equipment - 200-0 - ADA Hill Side
Embankment Transfer Point - Free
Standing

1

$5,497.00

$5,497.00

$529.08

Sub Total: $153,618.71
Freight: $22,842.00

Total Estimated
Tax: $14,785.83

Grand Total: $191,246.54

137 of 1111


--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6121
File ID: 25-10026
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Median Island Mulching — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with JetMulch, Inc., for the application of mulch to 153 median islands in the amount of $326,727; 
authorize a 10 percent contingency of $32,627, for a total amount not to exceed $359,354; and authorize the Director of 
Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo has 411 medians, islands, and rights-of-way. Staff identified 153 medians in need of mulching, 
primarily to reduce weed growth and dependence on herbicides for weed control. Additionally, mulching improves 
moisture retention, which supports plant survival and helps prevent soil erosion. 
On April 7, 2025, staff issued a request for proposals to provide mulch for medians throughout the City including: 59 
priority one and 94 second priority medians. Staff received a total of two proposals from JetMulch and West Coast 
Arborist. Staff evaluated the proposals based on the firms' understanding of the work involved, prior experience with 
similar work, quality and technical ability of the proposed staff, and the per unit price. Staff recommends awarding an 
agreement to JetMulch due to the quality and price of their proposal. The selected vendor, JetMulch, meets the 
requirements of SB1383.
The initial agreement term is through January 30, 2026. Work is to be billed on a “per island” unit basis, which is 
$2,135.47.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds for this work in the Tree Planting Project (#610008).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is exempt from CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that the application of mulch will not have a 
significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
138 of 1111

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
ATT 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Timothy Heartquist, Managing Arborist
theartquist@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7425
139 of 1111

--- page 140 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 1 of 11
Rev 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH THE JETMULCH, INC
FOR MEDIAN ISLAND MULCHING SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and  JETMULCH, INC. a corporation, ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 2901 Park Ave., Suite 
D-3  Soquel, CA 95010.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain median island mulching services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these median island mulching services 
by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has 
offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
.
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
140 of 1111

--- page 141 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 2 of 11
Rev 9/22
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code. For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality. This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the date of execution 
and be completed on January 30, 2026.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in the amount 
of $326,727.50, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
141 of 1111

--- page 142 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 3 of 11
Rev 9/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONTRACTOR shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance 
specified in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
142 of 1111

--- page 143 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 4 of 11
Rev 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
143 of 1111

--- page 144 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 5 of 11
Rev 9/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Timothy Heartquist 
Managing Arborist
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
JetMulch, Inc
Ryan Gamboa
2901 Park Ave., Suite D-3
Soquel, CA 95010
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
144 of 1111

--- page 145 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 6 of 11
Rev 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of San Mateo and JetMulch, Inc executed this Agreement on 
the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Mario Gamboa
President 
JetMulch, Inc
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
145 of 1111

--- page 146 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 7 of 11
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
The work consists of applying mulch to a total of 153 median islands throughout the City of San Mateo 
to the specifications and locations listed below. The Contractor will provide documentation of 
adherence to the requirements for mulch procurement as outlined in SB1383
 
All mulch/ woodchips shall be provided by the Contractor.
Mulch should be clean and recycled local tree waste chips or similar.
No mulch shall be installed within one foot of tree trunks, regardless of tree diameter.
Mulch shall not be installed in a manner that causes it to spill out onto the surrounding roads.
No equipment shall be driven within the drip zone of any tree.
Mulch shall be applied at a depth of no less than three (3) inches and no more than four (4) inches, 
measured from the soil surface.
Groundcover plants shall not be completely covered by mulch. However, any bare areas within and 
around groundcover plantings shall be mulched.
Mulch shall be applied around existing shrubs, ensuring that shrub stems emerging from the soil are 
not buried. Mulch shall be kept clear of the shrub base to prevent moisture-related damage.
Priority one islands shall be completed first, followed by priority two islands. 
146 of 1111

--- page 147 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 8 of 11
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES- LOCATIONS
PRIORITY_ID
PRIORITY NOTES
MEDIAN_COUNT
1
2
3rd and Crystal Springs (Eaton Park Way)
1
8
1
Carmel Circle
1
13
1
 El Camino Real median islands from 2nd to 21st 11 medians
12
23
2
San Mateo Parks  
65
40
1
Bridgepoint Parkway Median and Median Islands on Chess Drive by 
Home Depot and Hilton.  Medians on Fashion Island Blvd. West and 
East side of Mariners Island 24 medians
25
46
1
East side Delaware St. from 16th Ave. canal to Concar Ave. and 
medians on Charles & Betty Street entrance medians to 19th Ave. 
Park.  Median on Concar East of Grant and the planting strip North 
Side on Concar Ave. from Grant St. to end by Hayward Park
8
59
2
Palm islands from 3rd to Cary Avenue (on Norfolk)
3
60
2
S Bayshore (Beacon to Newbridge). 
1
65
2
South Amphlett Blvd Btwn Concar Dr and Haddon Dr (across from 
Marriott)
1
73
1
Borel Ave (ROW)         
1
77
2
DeAnza Blvd (sidewalks, center medians, 4 traffic triangles)
9
81
1
El Camino median from 27th to 37th and 41st Ave 
4
82
1
Ensenada Median and ROW
1
83
1
Fernwood
1
85
1
Hacienda & 31st Ave
2
95
1
Melissa  Court
3
103
2
Yew  St ROW
1
106
2
Bay Meadows Area medians and planters from Fairgrounds fence to 
sound wall on Saratoga Ave. Including Annapolis, Trinity, Bermuda 
and McClellan Cull-De-Sacs from Delaware St. to Hillsdale Blvd. 
10
114
2
Laurie Meadows Dr Btwn Wood Bridge and West of Suzie St
3
124
1
Bay Meadows, Landing Green - Section 1
1
147 of 1111

--- page 148 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 9 of 11
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Payment to be made to JetMulch, Inc. in an amount not to exceed $326,727.50 (a per-island price of 
$2,135.47), upon satisfactory completion of work.
148 of 1111

--- page 149 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 10 of 11
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor has 
no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
149 of 1111

--- page 150 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 11 of 11
Rev 9/22
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
150 of 1111

--- page 151 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 36-3133
File ID: 25-10039
TO:
City Council
FROM: 
Alex Khojikian, City Manager 
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE: 
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT: 
Worker Resource Center and Amendment for 171 N Amphlett Blvd. – Operations and Lease Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
1.
Adopt a Resolution appropriating $864,900 from the General Fund and General Fund Housing Set-Aside for Samaritan 
House to operate the Worker Resource Center for three years, a three-year lease for the building at 171 North 
Amphlett Boulevard, and trash collection and miscellaneous maintenance costs for three years; 
2.
Approve an agreement with Samaritan House to provide services to operate the Worker Resource Center, for a three-
year term, in the amount of $195,000 annually for a total amount of $585,000, and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented; and
3.
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the lease agreement with Sakai Family Partnership for the property at 171 North 
Amphlett Boulevard in the amount of $279,900 and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in 
substantially the form presented.  
BACKGROUND:
In the late 1990s, to address complaints related to day workers congregating in the downtown area of San Mateo and 
soliciting work, the City Council directed staff to study and find a solution to this issue. After months of interviews with day 
laborers, local merchants, and residents, and after years of study with community members and law enforcement 
responding to these calls, staff recommended that a center be created for day laborers to seek work in a safer location. 
In 2003, the City Council approved an agreement with Samaritan House to create and operate a Worker Resource Center 
(WRC) at a City-owned lot on 5th Avenue, where the WRC matched job seekers with job providers. The City later ground-
leased the lot to MidPen Housing for construction of the Kiku Crossing affordable housing development. Beginning in 2020, 
the City leased space at 171 North Amphlett Boulevard (171 N. Amphlett Blvd.) for the WRC, a location where workers are 
able to walk or bike from their homes. City Council received a presentation at a Council meeting on May 19, 2025, where 
Reyna Sandoval, Food and Community Programs Director, gave an overview of the core services provided at the WRC, now 
in the 22nd year of continuous operation. 
The City has, since 2003, renewed two-year agreements with Samaritan House to operate the WRC. The current 
operations agreement (Operations Agreement), funded at $195,000 per fiscal year, ends on June 30, 2025. Samaritan 
House seeks, and City staff recommends, an Operations Agreement renewal. Given the long history of collaboration with 
Samaritan House and consistency of services they provide for the WRC, staff proposes entering into a new Operations 
Agreement for a period of three years, from July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2028, to be funded at the current level of 
$195,000 per fiscal year. This would total $585,000 for the full three-year term. While the Operations Agreement does not 
require an annual renegotiation, staff proposes that Samaritan House and staff provide an annual update to the City 
151 of 1111

--- page 152 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Council on the status of the WRC to keep City Council informed and address any programmatic changes that may be 
needed. Additionally, as costs increase over time, it may be necessary to amend the not-to-exceed amount during the 
Operations Term agreement. In this case, staff would return to City Council for approval of an amendment. 
Services Provided Under the Agreement
The WRC provides a place for workers and businesses and homeowners seeking casual labor to meet on Monday through 
Friday from 7 AM to 3 PM, and Saturdays from 7 AM to noon. Workers that arrive at the WRC register with staff, listing 
their names, cellphone number and work skills, such as manual labor, gardening, painting or carpentry. Business owners or 
homeowners seeking casual labor that come to the WRC register with staff, list the skillsets they seek, and staff matches 
their work requests with workers.
At the WRC, Samaritan House also provides job application assistance, English as a Second Language (ESL) instruction, 
meals, and referrals to other Samaritan House programs for health, dental, and clothing needs. In addition to WRC-specific 
operations, Samaritan House leverages its resources as a Core Service Agency for San Mateo County, which provides 
emergency safety-net assistance to County residents. Samaritan House receives a subgrant of federal Community 
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds from the City ($14,100 in FY 24-25) to support these programs. 
Worker Resource Center Location
The City is currently in a lease agreement with Sakai Family Partnership for the facility located at 171 N. Amphlett Blvd., at 
the cost of $5,628 per month, plus common area maintenance (CAM) expenses of approximately $577 per month.  Rent 
and CAM expenses have increased approximately 3 percent per calendar year, and under the lease, the City is responsible 
for electrical, plumbing and interior repairs.
The facility is aging, and the WRC has had several ad hoc repairs, such as emergency plumbing and rodent removal, those 
repairs have cost the City approximately $400 to address each matter (costing approximately $1,000 per year). In addition, 
the City pays for Recology waste removal, debris box, and locks for approximately $1,190 per month. The current lease at 
171 N. Amphlett expires on August 31, 2025.
The City’s leasing agent conducted a due diligence search for other viable lease options and ultimately, amending the 
current lease for a three- year extension was the most viable option for Samaritan House to continue operating the WRC. 
The City requested, and the Lessor assented, to the following additional facility improvements not in the original lease 
agreement, at the Lessor’s own expense, for a three-year lease to (1) epoxy the concrete floor; (2) install a window in the 
loft for better air flow; (3) repair or replace the vents/fans in the two restrooms; and (4) allow the WRC to use a water 
spigot in the front of the building to clean the premises. The current rental rate would be kept the same for the first year 
of the extension term ($5,627.54 per month at no net loss, with 3 percent annual increases), plus CAM, (starting at $577 
per month with approximately 3 percent annual increases). The rent total for a three-year period is $208,730. The 
approximate cost of CAM fees is $21,401 for a three-year period. The cost of trash collection and miscellaneous 
maintenance expenses for a three-year period is estimated at $49,740. A total of $279,900 is needed to lease the property 
for three years.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The three-year Operations Agreement is in the amount of $195,000 per fiscal year, for a total of $585,000. The program 
was previously funded entirely under the City’s General Fund. However, to reduce reliance on General Funds, staff 
proposes to fund the agreement at $165,000 from the General Fund (Fund 100) and $30,000 from General Fund Housing 
Set Aside Funds (Fund 130) annually. 
The cost to lease the facility at 171 N. Amphlett Blvd for three years will be $208,730. In addition to the lease, the common 
area maintenance (CAM) fee is estimated at $21,430 and the cost for monthly trash collection is estimated at $49,740 for 
the three-year period, so a total appropriation of $279,900 is needed to cover the costs related to the three-year lease. 
This results in a total appropriation of $864,900 to operate the Worker Resource Center for the next three years.
The proposed 2025-26 Samaritan House budget for the WRC is $379,516 and maintains the same overall distribution of 
152 of 1111

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
costs as the budget included in the current contract. The City’s contribution of $195,000 would cover 70 percent of the 
total program costs, while the Samaritan House General Fund would support 28 percent, with the remaining 2 percent of 
funding provided by outside contributions. 
The WRC operations budget is broken down into personnel expenses and operating expenses that include meals, 
technology, housekeeping, and various supplies. The Center has two full time client-facing staff, for a total operations staff 
of 2.4 FTE. In addition, 0.2 FTE is budgeted for on-call personnel. The majority of operating expenses are allocated to 
program supplies and meals (48 percent) and housekeeping (38 percent). 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5))
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS:
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Agreement to Provide Services to Operate the Worker Resource Center 2025-28
Att 3 – Amendment No. 2 to the Lease Agreement for 171 North Amphlett Boulevard
STAFF CONTACT: 
Van Diggans, Housing Specialist II
vdiggans@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
153 of 1111

--- page 154 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROPRIATING FUNDS FOR THE OPERATION OF THE WORKER RESOURCE CENTER AND 
LEASE FOR COMMERCIAL SPACE AT 171 NORTH AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
WHEREAS, since 2003 to the present, Samaritan House has operated the San Mateo Worker Resource 
Center (WRC), a facility that connects day laborers in the City with potential employers; and
WHEREAS, the City supports the WRC via an operations agreement with Samaritan House and provides 
the facility out of which the WRC is operated; and
WHEREAS, the City and Samaritan House agree to continue operating the WRC for an additional three-
year term (July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2028) with a City contribution of $195,000 per year, for a total cost of 
$585,000 for three years; and
WHEREAS, on August 4, 2020, the City Council approved a one-year lease (Lease) of the commercial 
space located at 171 North Amphlett Boulevard (171 N. Amphlett), and the Lease contained an option to extend 
the Lease Term for up to three additional twelve-month periods, with an increase in the monthly rent of three-
percent per twelve-month period; and
WHEREAS, the Parties to the Lease agreed to extend the Lease Term in 2021, 2022 and 2023; and
WHEREAS, on August 8, 2024, the Parties to the Lease agreed to extend the Lease for an additional one-
year term in a First Amendment per City Council Resolution No. 74 (2024); and
WHEREAS, the Parties to the Lease agree to sign a Second Amendment to Lease to extend the term for a 
period of three years, from September 1, 2025 to August 31, 2028, with a monthly rental rate of $5,627.54 for 
the first year and a three-percent annual increase for the second and third years of the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the facility at 171 N. Amphlett also requires payment of common area maintenance fees of 
$577 per month, subject to an approximate three percent annual increase; payment of trash collection fees to 
Recology of approximately $1,190 per month; and miscellaneous maintenance costs of approximately $1,000 
per year; and
WHEREAS, the total costs to lease the facility at 171 N. Amphlett, with the associated fees and 
maintenance costs, for a three-year period are estimated to be $279,900; and
WHEREAS, the Operations Agreement with Samaritan House will cost $195,000 per year, for a total of 
$585,000 for the three-year term; and 
WHEREAS, the total cost to operate the WRC, including the Operations Agreement, Lease, common area 
maintenance, trash collection and miscellaneous maintenance, is estimated to be $864,900 for the three-year 
term.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This fund appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
154 of 1111

--- page 155 ---
2.
The appropriation of $279,900 from the General Fund (Fund 100) to pay the monthly rent and 
associated costs for the facility at 171 N. Amphlett for three years is approved.
3.
The appropriation of $495,000 from the General Fund (Fund 100) and $90,000 from the Housing 
Set-Aside Fund (Fund 130), for a total appropriation of $585,000 to pay Operations Agreement with 
Samaritan House to operate of the Worker Resource Center for a three-year term is approved.
 
4.
The total appropriation to support the Worker Resource Center for the next three-year term is 
$864,900.
155 of 1111

--- page 156 ---
Page 1 of 6
AGREEMENT TO PROVIDE SERVICES TO OPERATE
 THE WORKER RESOURCE CENTER
This agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this ____________________ by and 
between the SAMARITAN HOUSE (“ORGANIZATION”), a nonprofit corporation, and the 
City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation. 
The CITY wishes to provide employment, social, educational and other services promoting 
public health and safety for workers at the Worker Resource Center.
The ORGANIZATION is willing to and capable of performing such community services.
To achieve common goals in the community, the CITY and the ORGANIZATION agree as 
follows:
I.
CITY AND ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBILITIES:
A.
CITY will provide the site for a Center (“Center”) to provide employment, social and 
educational services and other services promoting public health and safety.
B.
CITY secured a lease for space for the Center located at 171 N. Amphlett Blvd, San 
Mateo, CA (see Attachment A “Lease”) and agrees to pay for the base rent, common area 
operating expenses, and utilities.  The owner of the property is Sakai Family Partnership 
(“Lessor”) and has designated SC Properties as its agent and property manager (“Property 
Manager”). The lease at 171 N. Amphlett Blvd is scheduled to expire on August 31, 2025 
and CITY is working on a new lease or lease extension. 
C.
ORGANIZATION shall not violate any provisions of any Lease secured by CITY 
for the operations of the Center.
D.
ORGANIZATION will provide and may partner with other social and educational 
agencies to provide services, including but not limited to housing stability, educational 
services, health, nutrition, medical, and basic skills classes.
E.
CITY will fund the Center at an amount not to exceed $195,000 per year. 
ORGANIZATION may assist CITY in seeking and securing additional funding for 
Center operations, but ORGANIZATION is under no obligation to do so. 
F.
ORGANIZATION is responsible for the safety, security and operations of the 
facility, including the performance of all routine custodial and maintenance duties, 
maintenance of consumable supplies, and litter control at the facility. 
156 of 1111

--- page 157 ---
Page 2 of 6
G. ORGANIZATION shall contact Property Manager for any 
maintenance or repairs that are the responsibility of the Lessor, or in any 
case where the responsibility for maintenance or repairs is unclear under 
the terms described in the Lease. ORGANIZATION shall copy CITY on 
any such correspondence with Property Manager.
H.
ORGANIZATION shall perform all services under the Agreement in accordance 
with all applicable Federal, State, County and municipal laws, ordinances, regulations, 
and funding mandates, including requirements pertaining to confidentiality, civil rights, 
and quality assurance. 
I.
 ORGANIZATION shall timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all 
necessary documentation of compliance with the above-mentioned laws, ordinances, 
regulations, funding mandates, and requirements.
J.
ORGANIZATION shall adhere to the Operational Goals as identified in Attachment 
B– Operational Goals.
II.
AGREEMENT TERM:  The services to be performed under this Agreement will 
commence on July 1, 2025, and will continue until June 30, 2028, unless terminated earlier by 
either party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  
III.
FUNDING:  Funding by CITY to ORGANIZATION shall be on the following terms:
A.
Funding for FY2025-26; FY 2026-27 and FY 2027-28 shall not exceed $195,000 
annually as defined in Attachment C-Worker Resource Center Budget. 
ORGANIZATION shall provide an invoice for each request for payment on a monthly 
basis based on hours worked and overhead incurred in accordance with the expenses 
described in the budget in Attachment C. CITY will pay the invoice within 30 days of 
receipt.   
IV.
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION shall:
A.
Establish and maintain a written system of accounts for budgeted funds that 
conforms with generally accepted accounting principles. Such system of accounts shall 
be subject to review, approval and inspection of CITY.
B.
Document all costs by maintaining complete and accurate records of all financial 
transactions, including, but not limited to, contracts, invoices, timecards, cash and charge 
receipts, vouchers, cancelled checks, bank statements and/or other official documentation 
evidencing in proper detail the nature and propriety of all charges.
C.
If ORGANIZATION has an independent fiscal audit or other annual financial status 
report compiled, a copy shall be provided to the CITY within 30 days of completion and 
acceptance by the ORGANIZATION Board of Directors.
157 of 1111

--- page 158 ---
Page 3 of 6
D.
ORGANIZATION is liable for repayment of disallowed costs.  Disallowed costs 
may be identified through audits, examination of invoices, monitoring, or other sources.  
ORGANIZATION shall be afforded the opportunity to respond to any adverse findings 
which may lead to disallowed costs.  Disallowed costs are costs not allowed and 
approved by CITY.  Disallowed costs are generally defined as funds expended for 
purposes which do not directly further the common goals of ORGANIZATION, and 
CITY, set forth in the second paragraph on page 1 of this Agreement.
V.
RECORDS, REPORTS AND AUDITS OF ORGANIZATION:
A.
ORGANIZATION shall maintain records, including but not limited to books, 
financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, personnel, property, 
performance measures as identified in Attachment D – Performance Measures, and all 
other pertinent records sufficient to reflect properly (1) all direct and indirect costs of 
whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be incurred to perform 
this Agreement, and (2) all other matters covered by this Agreement.
B.
Preservation of Records:  ORGANIZATION shall preserve and make available its 
records related to this Agreement for the following periods:
1. Until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the submission of the 
annual financial status report;
2. For such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable law; or
3. If this Agreement is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to 
the work terminated shall be preserved and made available for a period of 
three (3) years from the date of any resulting final settlement.
VI. TERMINATION:  
A.
In the event funds are not available from CITY or other third-party entities, CITY 
may terminate the Agreement upon 90 days’ written notice and is under no obligation to 
continue to provide services as identified in Section 1.  If the Agreement is terminated in 
this manner, ORGANIZATION shall be reimbursed for all valid expenditures made up to 
and including the effective date of the termination.
B.
Notwithstanding availability of funding, the CITY or ORGANIZATION may 
terminate this Agreement with 90 days’ written notice if CITY or ORGANIZATION 
deems it to be in its best interest to discontinue the program.  If the Agreement is 
terminated in this manner, CITY agrees to reimburse ORGANIZATION for all valid 
expenditures made up to and including the effective date of the termination. 
VII.
 INTEREST OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS:   No members, officers, employees or agents of 
the CITY, shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or a related subcontract.
VIII.
INSPECTION OF PROGRAM:   It is understood that CITY will periodically review 
158 of 1111

--- page 159 ---
Page 4 of 6
ORGANIZATION's program.
II.
PROGRAM INCOME:   ORGANIZATION shall record program income as part of the 
financial transactions of the program.  Any income generated from the program may be used to 
offset expenses and shall not be considered as funding stipulated in Article 3 in this Agreement.  
III.
REVERSION OF ASSETS:   If the ORGANIZATION is dissolved or ceases to exist, 
any unexpended program funds in the possession of ORGANIZATION at the time of dissolution 
shall be immediately returned to CITY.  
IV.
ASSIGNABILITY:   ORGANIZATION shall not assign this Agreement and shall not 
transfer any interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent of CITY.
V.
 INDEMNIFICATION:
A.
Each party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other party and its agents and 
employees from and against all claims, damages, losses and expenses, including but not 
limited to attorney’s fees, arising out of or resulting from its performance of its 
obligations set forth in this Agreement, excepting claims, damages, losses and expenses 
resulting from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the other party for which that 
party will be responsible.
B.
CITY shall further indemnify ORGANIZATION from such claims, damages, losses 
and expenses arising out of the use or occupancy of the premises by any guests or 
invitees, except to the extent that any such claim, damage, loss, or expense is caused by 
ORGANIZATION’s failure to operate and maintain the premises in a safe condition 
during the hours of operation of the Center.
C.
The intent of this section is to provide that if someone is injured on the premises 
during its hours of operation because of a condition caused by ORGANIZATION, its 
agents or employees, or a condition that ORGANIZATION or its agents or employees in 
exercising reasonable efforts could have addressed, the ORGANIZATION shall bear the 
loss.  If someone is injured on the premises at any time because of faulty construction or 
improper maintenance, then the CITY shall bear the risk of premises liability.
D.
For purposes of the Agreement, “claims” means any and all claims, losses, costs, 
damages, expenses, liabilities, liens, actions, causes of action (whether in tort or contract, 
law or equity or otherwise), charges, assessments, fines, and penalties of any kind 
(including consultant and expert expenses, court costs, and attorney fees actually 
incurred).
E.
The clauses of this Article 12 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of 
this Agreement until all claims against the parties hereto involving any of the indemnified 
matters are fully, finally, and absolutely barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
I.
INSURANCE: ORGANIZATION shall provide and maintain:
159 of 1111

--- page 160 ---
Page 5 of 6
A.
Commercial General Liability Insurance, occurrence form, at least as broad as 
Insurance Services Office (ISO) form CG 0001, with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 
each occurrence and a $3,000,000 umbrella policy.  If such insurance contains a general 
aggregate limit, it shall apply separately to this Agreement or be no less than two (2) 
times the occurrence limit.
B.
Automobile Liability Insurance, at least as broad as ISO Form CA 0001, with a limit 
of not less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  Such 
insurance shall include coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles.
C.
Workers Compensation in at least the minimum statutory limits, with Employer’s 
Liability Insurance limits of at least $1,000,000 per accident.
D.
General Provisions for all insurance.  The general and auto liability insurance 
policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following:
1.  Include the City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, 
volunteers and agents as insureds with respect to this Agreement and the 
performance of services in this Agreement (does not apply to workers 
compensation or auto insurance).  The coverage shall contain no special 
limitations on the scope of its protection to the above-designated insureds.
2.  Be primary with respect to any insurance or self-insurance programs of City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents.
3.  A waiver of all rights of subrogation against the City of San Mateo, its elected 
and appointed officials, employees, volunteers and agents for losses paid under 
the terms of any policy which arise from the work performed by the 
CONSULTANT.  This provision also applies to the Workers’ Compensation 
policy.
4.  Be evidenced, prior to commencement of services, by properly executed policy 
endorsements in addition to a certificate of insurance.
5.  No changes in insurance may be made without the written approval of the City 
Attorney's Office.
VI. NONDISCRIMINATION:
A.
No person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religious affiliation or 
non-affiliation, marital status, medical condition, sex, age, disability status, sexual 
orientation or political affiliation, be excluded from participation in, be denied the 
benefits, or be subjected to discrimination or harassment under this Agreement.
B.
ORGANIZATION shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective 
standards of recruitment, selection, promotion, classification, compensation, performance 
evaluations, and management relations, for all employees under this Agreement.  
ORGANIZATION's personnel policies shall be made available to CITY upon request.
VII.
PROJECT REPRESENTATION:  The CITY and ORGANIZATION hereby designate 
160 of 1111

--- page 161 ---
Page 6 of 6
the following agents to act as project representatives and receive all notices in the execution of this Agreement.
CITY : 
Rachel Horst
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
ORGANIZATION:
Laura Bent
Chief Executive Director
Samaritan House
4031 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo, CA 94403 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their duly authorized representatives, have affixed 
their hands.
SAMARITAN HOUSE
By:
                                                     
 
Laura Bent
Date:                                             
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:
                                                   
   
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
Date:                                             
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
__________________________________
Mazarin Vakharia, Assistant City Attorney
161 of 1111

--- page 162 ---
ATTACHMENT A 
LEASE  2nd AMENDMENT
2nd AMENDMENT TO LEASE 
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT IS MADE THIS 25th DAY OF June 2025 TO THAT CERTAIN LEASE 
AGREEMENT DATED AUGUST 4, 2020 (“LEASE”), BY AND BETWEEN Sakai Family Partnership, 
(“LESSOR”), AND City of San Mateo, Inc (“LESSEE”) FOR THOSE PREMISES LOCATED AT 171 N. Amphlett 
Blvd., San Mateo, CA 94401. Lessor and Lessee may collectively be referred to as “Parties.”
WHEREAS, on August 4th 2020, Lessor leased to Lessee certain real property known as 171 N Amphlett Blvd, San 
Mateo, CA 94401 for a term of one year (Lease Term); and 
WHEREAS, the Lease contained an option to extend the Lease Term for up to three (3) additional twelve-month 
periods with an increase in the monthly rent of 3 percent per twelve-month period; and
WHEREAS, the Parties agreed to extend the Lease Term in 2021, 2022 and 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Parties agreed to extend the lease for an additional one-year term in a First Amendment to Lease 
through Resolution No. 74 (2024) and hereto now desire to extend that term for an additional three (3) years. The 
Parties also desire to amend the rent schedule.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.  Term:
The term of the Lease shall be extended for a period of thirty-six (36) months. This Second Amendment to Lease shall 
be effective from September 1, 2025 and ending at midnight on August 31, 2028.
2.  Rent Schedule:
September 1, 2025 – August 31, 2026, monthly rent shall be $5,627.54. 
September 1, 2026 – August 31, 2027, monthly rent shall be $5,796.37.
September 1, 2027 – August 31, 2028, monthly rent shall be $5,970.26.
3.  Landlord’s Work:
Within 45 days of the mutual execution of this Second Amendment to Lease, Lessor is to perform the following work 
at Lessor’s sole cost and expense:
1.
Epoxy the warehouse flooring
2.
Install one operable window in upstairs mezzanine space
3.
Repair/replace ventilation fans in two restrooms
4.
Access to water spigot in the exterior common area
The Parties hereto confirm, ratify and agree that all other terms, provisions and conditions of the Lease except as 
heretofore noted, shall continue as heretofore rented and as if they were printed at large herein and they are hereby 
incorporated by reference.
Lessor: Sakai Family Partnership care of SC Properties
By:
Date:
            
Lessee: City of San Mateo, Inc
162 of 1111

--- page 163 ---
By:
Date:
      
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
By: _____________________________________________ Date: ___________________
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney   
163 of 1111

--- page 164 ---
ATTACHMENT B
WORKER RESOURCE CENTER 
OPERATIONAL GOALS
•
Center will be open during peak periods of casual labor work solicitation, generally from 
early mornings to mid-day on Monday to Saturday 
•
Center operations will be scaleable to needs
•
ORGANIZATION will perform intake and assessment of workers 
•
ORGANIZATION will perform intake of employers
•
ORGANIZATION will use an equitable system to enable workers to match with job 
providers
•
ORGANIZATION will integrate other services onsite with a consortium of providers: ESL 
classes, clothing, nutrition, health referrals, etc.
•
ORGANIZATION will only provide services and resource referrals to registered WRC 
workers
•
ORGANIZATION will inform potential employers of their obligation to insure workers for 
on-the-job injuries.
•
ORGANIZATION will use volunteers 
•
CITY and ORGANIZATION will perform outreach and marketing of Center to laborers and 
job providers at least twice a month
•
ORGANIZATION will abide by Center rules and regulations
•
ORGANIZATION will involve workers in developing rules and regulations
•
ORGANIZATION will involve workers in facility maintenance
•
ORGANIZATION will prepare data collection/monthly reports on use of Center to measure 
Center’s effectiveness
•
ORGANIZATION will regularly liaise with CITY in quarterly meetings, and at these 
quarterly meetings, provide a written quarterly report that at minimum, shall describe the 
Center’s program activities and how they contribute to meeting performance measures, and 
provide a report on outreach and marketing to laborers and job provider that is provided 
twice a month
•
ORGANIZATION will submit to CITY monthly invoices in a form approved by CITY and 
supporting documents reasonably evidencing that the expenses have been incurred and paid 
by ORGANIZATION for the benefit of clients of the Center; documents evidencing these 
costs include but are not limited to, paid invoices stating the date and purposes of 
expenditures  
•
ORGANIZATION will coordinate with CITY to secure third party funding for programs and 
activities.
164 of 1111

--- page 165 ---
ATTACHMENT C
BUDGET SAMARITAN HOUSE 
FOR WORKER RESOURCE CENTER
165 of 1111

--- page 166 ---
8130
Line Item
City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo
In-Kind
Leveraged other
Funding
Total
Income
Government
195,000
195,000
Foundations Contributions
-
5,000
5,000
Samaritan House General Fund
-
106,036
106,036
Total Income
195,000
-
111,036
306,036
In-Kind Income (rent, recology) *
73,480
-
73,480
Total INCOME available for FY24
195,000
73,480
111,036
379,516
Expense
Personnel Expense
Salaries & Wages
WRC Program Coordinators (2.1 FTE)
107,120
Dir of Food and Community Services (.40FTE)
32,445
COO
Employee Benefits & Taxes
18,364
5,356
10,815
12,900
18,736
- 
112,476
43,260
12,900
37,100
Total Personnel Expense
157,929
-
47,807
205,736
Shared Personnel Expense
Shared Personnel Expenses
-
21,419
21,419
Shared Volunteer Exp - Personnel
-
-
-
Total Shared Personnel Expense
-
21,419
21,419
Total Personnel Expense & Shared Personnel Expense
157,929
69,226
227,155
Operating Expense
Office Supplies
-
6,300
6,300
Program Supplies & Meals
17,689
15,000
32,689
Postage & Mail
25
25
Printing & Mailing Services
-
-
Communications/Telephone
5,142
5,142
Housekeeping
14,240
-
14,240
Travel, Meetings & Conferences
-
620
620
License, Dues & Subscriptions
-
-
Mileage Reimbursement
128
128
Employee Training
200
200
Equipment Rental
310
310
Insurance Expense
710
710
Outside Services
18,000
18,000
Depreciation
45
45
Other Fees & Charges
473
473
In-Kind Expenses *'
73,480
73,480
Total Operating Expense
37,071
73,480
41,811
152,362
Total Operating Expense & Shared Operating Expense
37,071
73,480
41,811
152,362
Total Personnel and Operating Expense by Function
195,000
73,480
111,037
379,516
Net Income
0
-
(0)
(0)
166 of 1111

--- page 167 ---
ATTACHMENT D
WORKER RESOURCE CENTER
MEASURES OF SUCCESS
Reported Quarterly:
•
Daily number of workers (clients) utilizing Worker Resource Center (WRC) 
•
Number of unduplicated workers each month
•
Number of workers utilizing additional services each month
•
Daily number of jobs available at the WRC
•
Placement ratio of workers to jobs available
•
Number of job seekers daily on the streets (data provided by City of San Mateo Police 
Department)
•
Police calls for service in the immediate area surrounding the Worker Resource Center
•
Workers express satisfaction with WRC measured by monthly survey
•
Job providers express satisfaction with WRC measured by survey provided to every job 
provider.
•
Description of workers’ involvement in operations of WRC and community service 
activities
•
Description of types of program/services provided at WRC
•
Description of outreach efforts to workers and job providers
•
Efforts to obtain third party funding or volunteer services at the WRC
 Reported Annually:
•
Ensure budget is adhered to
•
Annual update to City Council on the status of the WRC to keep City Council informed 
and address any programmatic changes that may be needed
167 of 1111

--- page 168 ---
2nd AMENDMENT TO LEASE 
THIS SECOND AMENDMENT IS MADE THIS 25th DAY OF June 2025 TO THAT CERTAIN 
LEASE AGREEMENT DATED AUGUST 4, 2020 (“LEASE”), BY AND BETWEEN Sakai 
Family Partnership, (“LESSOR”), AND City of San Mateo, Inc (“LESSEE”) FOR THOSE 
PREMISES LOCATED AT 171 N. Amphlett Blvd., San Mateo, CA 94401. Lessor and Lessee 
may collectively be referred to as “Parties.”
WHEREAS, on August 4th 2020, Lessor leased to Lessee certain real property known as 171 N 
Amphlett Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94401 for a term of one year (Lease Term); and 
WHEREAS, the Lease contained an option to extend the Lease Term for up to three (3) additional 
twelve-month periods with an increase in the monthly rent of 3 percent per twelve-month period; 
and
WHEREAS, the Parties agreed to extend the Lease Term in 2021, 2022 and 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Parties agreed to extend the lease for an additional one-year term in a First 
Amendment to Lease through Resolution No. 74 (2024) and hereto now desire to extend that term 
for an additional three (3) years. The Parties also desire to amend the rent schedule.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.  Term:
The term of the Lease shall be extended for a period of thirty-six (36) months. This Second 
Amendment to Lease shall be effective from September 1, 2025 and ending at midnight on August 
31, 2028.
2.  Rent Schedule:
September 1, 2025 – August 31, 2026, monthly rent shall be $5,627.54. 
September 1, 2026 – August 31, 2027, monthly rent shall be $5,796.37.
September 1, 2027 – August 31, 2028, monthly rent shall be $5,970.26.
3.  Landlord’s Work:
Within 45 days of the mutual execution of this Second Amendment to Lease, Lessor is to perform 
the following work at Lessor’s sole cost and expense:
1. Epoxy the warehouse flooring
2. Install one operable window in upstairs mezzanine space
3. Repair/replace ventilation fans in two restrooms
4. Provide access to water spigot in the exterior common area
The Parties hereto confirm, ratify and agree that all other terms, provisions and conditions of the 
Lease except as heretofore noted, shall continue as heretofore rented and as if they were printed at 
large herein and they are hereby incorporated by reference.
Lessor: Sakai Family Partnership care of SC Properties
By:
Date:
168 of 1111

--- page 169 ---
Lessee: City of San Mateo, Inc
By:
Date:
      
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By: _____________________________________________ 
Date: ___________________
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney   
169 of 1111

--- page 170 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 25-10055
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Below Market Rental Rates, Sales Prices and Unit Community Priorities – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to establish 2025 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing as required by the City 
of San Mateo's Below Market Rate (BMR) housing program; and establish Community Priority for units containing three or 
more bedrooms, which may allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for units with more bedrooms as 
long as all other BMR program provisions are followed.
BACKGROUND:
In November 1992, the City Council established the BMR housing program that requires new housing developments of 11 
or more units to include a certain percentage of the units as "affordable". The affordable housing targets have been 
revised from time to time. As of February 2020, a rental project must include 15 percent of the units that are affordable to 
Lower Income households, whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income ($109,700 - $206,800, 
depending upon family size). For owner-occupied housing, 15 percent of the units must be affordable to Moderate Income 
households, whose incomes do not exceed 120 percent of the area median income ($156,750 - $295,550, depending upon 
family size). These are the minimum requirements; developers may elect to utilize State Density Bonus provisions to 
provide deeper affordability in exchange for development concessions. 
The City receives updated median income figures from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
and the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) offices each spring. All BMR units are 
subject to maximum rental rates and sales prices that are revised by the City Council on an annual basis to reflect changes 
in the Area Median Income (AMI) as well as average interest rates for mortgages and other monthly ownership housing 
costs. This year, there was no increase to AMI. However, in 2019, the City Council adopted a 4 percent cap on BMR rental 
increases to address the significant median income increases over the past few years; this 4 percent increase is reflected in 
the calculations below.
BMR Rental Rates 
The maximum rent figures include the cost of gas and electric utilities, garbage collection, and water, but exclude 
telephone. Calculated rents cannot exceed Fair Market Rents (FMR) as published by the San Mateo County Housing 
Authority. Utilizing these formulas, the maximum BMR rental rates for 2025 are: 
170 of 1111

--- page 171 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Very Low Income
Low Income
Studio
$1,369
$1,632
1-Bedroom
$1,552
$1,869
2-Bedroom
$1,751
$2,106
3-Bedroom
$1,948
$2,342
4-Bedroom
$2,106
$2,527
Maximum BMR rents remain well below current market rents.
BMR Sales Prices
Maximum sales prices for condominiums and townhouses are established by first determining an affordable monthly 
housing payment, which is defined as 30 percent of 100 percent of AMI adjusted by family size for Moderate Income and 
30 percent of 70 percent of AMI for Low Income. An allowance for property taxes, insurance, and homeowners’ 
association dues is factored into the monthly payment. The sales price is then calculated assuming a 5 percent 
downpayment and an interest rate based on the 15-year average, as published by Freddie Mac (4.39 percent). Sales prices 
for single-family detached houses are calculated using the above-mentioned methodology, except that the household 
income used to calculate the monthly payment for detached single-family houses is 35 percent of 110 percent of AMI. 
Utilizing these formulas, the maximum sales prices for 2025 are:
Low Income 
Condo/Townhome
Moderate Income 
Condo/Townhome
Single-Family 
Detached
Studio
$319,000
$495,000
n/a
1-Bedroom
$355,000
$555,000
$744,000
2-Bedroom
$413,000
$638,000
$851,000
3-Bedroom
$468,000
$719,000
$955,000
4-Bedroom
$515,000
$786,000
$1,041,000
City Council reserves the right to change the prices at any time, in the event of significant changes in the market, interest 
rates or other conditions.
Community Priority 
BMR program revisions effective January 1, 2010, included flexibility in the bedroom count of the BMR units based on City 
Council adoption of community priorities. An applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in the BMR units other than 
a straight pro rata of the market rate units, as long as the total bedroom count is the same or more, and that the total 
number of BMR units equal at least 10 percent of the project.
In previous years, Council adopted a Community Priority in annual resolutions establishing Below Market Rental Rates and 
Sale Prices. For 2025, the staff recommendation is to continue to adopt a Community Priority for large units consisting of 
three or more bedrooms, based on the shortage of those units currently in the BMR inventory, compared to the families 
on the waiting lists. For example, a 40-unit complex consisting of all two-bedroom units could provide the City four three-
bedroom units (10 percent) instead of the standard requirement of six two-bedroom (15 percent) units. Council has the 
ability to change this priority in future years if needs change.  Also, it is anticipated that this requirement will be 
incorporated into the BMR Ordinance in the near future when it is updated to meet Housing Element commitments. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Adoption of this Resolution has no impact on the General Fund. 
171 of 1111

--- page 172 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The establishment of 2025 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing is not a project subject to CEQA, 
because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code 
Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Van Diggans, Housing Specialist II
vdiggans@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
172 of 1111

--- page 173 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO.        (2025)
ESTABLISHING THE 2025 MAXIMUM RENTAL RATES AND SALES PRICES FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS 
REQUIRED BY THE BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING PROGRAM, AND ESTABLISHING COMMUNITY PRIORITY 
FOR LARGER UNITS
WHEREAS, the Below Market Rate Housing Program (BMR Program) was established in 1992, and is 
reviewed by the Council annually to establish maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing, and
WHEREAS, a revision to the BMR Program, effective in January 2010, included flexibility in how a 
developer can satisfy the City’s BMR requirement, based on total bedroom count and adopted community 
priorities for the number of bedrooms in each unit; and 
WHEREAS, the City annually revises the rental rates and sales prices for the BMR Program based on 
median income data provided by the United States Department of Housing & Urban Development and the 
California Department of Housing & Community Development; and
 
WHEREAS, staff has reviewed the rental rates and sales prices for the BMR Program and recommends 
that the City Council adopt the rates set forth in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends that the City Council establish Community Priority for units consisting of 
three or more bedrooms, based on the shortage of those units currently in the BMR inventory compared to the 
need reflected on  waiting lists, thus allowing a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for units with 
three or more bedrooms, as long as all other BMR program provisions are followed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1. 
The establishment of 2025 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing is not a 
project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the 
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) .
2.
The 2025 maximum rental rates, including utilities and garbage, and sales prices for BMR units 
are established at the rates set forth in Exhibit A, attached to this Resolution.
3.
The establishment of a Community Priority need for units containing three bedrooms or more is 
approved. A developer may propose a different bedroom mix in the BMR units, as long as the developer 
provides BMR units with three or more bedrooms, such that the total bedroom count is equal to or higher than 
what would otherwise be required pursuant to the BMR Guidelines, the total number of BMR units is 10% or 
more for the project, and all other BMR Program provisions are followed. Exhibit B sets out the methodology to 
calculate the equivalency.
173 of 1111

--- page 174 ---
EXHIBIT A
 2025 MAXIMUM RENTAL RATES
(Including Utility Allowance)
Very Low Income
Low Income
Studio
$1,369
$1,632 
1-Bedroom
$1,552 
$1,869 
2-Bedroom
$1,751 
$2,106 
3-Bedroom
$1,948 
$2,342 
4-Bedroom
$2,106 
$2,527 
2025 MAXIMUM SALES PRICES
Low Income 
Condo/Townhome
Moderate Income 
Condo/Townhome
Single Family Detached
Studio
$319,000 
$495,000 
n/a
1-Bedroom
$355,000 
$555,000 
$744,000 
2-Bedroom
$413,000 
$638,000 
$851,000 
3-Bedroom
$468,000 
$719,000
$955,000 
4-Bedroom
$515,000 
$786,000 
$1,041,000 
EXHIBIT B
174 of 1111

--- page 175 ---
BELOW MARKET RATE ALTERNATIVE
FOR VARIATION OF THE BEDROOM COUNT IN BMR UNITS
Based on City Council approval of a Community Priority, an applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in 
the BMR units as long as the developer provides BMR units with three or more bedrooms such that the total 
bedroom count is equal to or higher than what would otherwise be required pursuant to the BMR Guidelines, 
the total number of BMR units is 10% or more for the project, and all other BMR Program provisions are 
followed. 
When the Community Priority is for larger units with 3 or more bedrooms, the following methodology is used to 
calculate the required number of BMR units:
•
Calculate the pro rata number of Market Rate units by bedroom type by multiplying .15 times the 
number of units for each bedroom size to establish the baseline.
•
Calculate the total number of bedrooms in the baseline BMR units. Use .75/unit for studio units.
•
Developer may propose a different mix of bedrooms if it increases the number of units with 3 or more 
bedrooms, provides an equivalent bedroom count the same or greater than the baseline, and provides a 
total BMR unit count of at least 10% of the project size.
175 of 1111

--- page 176 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 25-9944
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Comprehensive Zoning Code Update Professional Services – Appropriation and Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $926,846 from the Advanced Planning Fund to the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
project, approve a professional services agreement with PlaceWorks to provide technical planning support, community 
outreach and project management to complete the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update project, and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
General Plan 2040
Following a six-year planning effort with extensive community engagement, the City Council adopted General Plan 2040 on 
March 18, 2024.The General Plan includes a Vision Statement and Guiding Principles, text describing key issues of community 
interest, and goals, policies and actions that outline how the City will address those issues. General Plan 2040 addresses all 
the topics required by State law and other topics that the community identified as being fundamental to the quality of life 
in the City. There are eight core chapters (elements) in General Plan 2040, which include: Land Use; Circulation; Housing 
(adopted separately on May 20, 2024); Community Design and Historic Resources; Conservation, Open Space, and 
Recreation; Public Services and Facilities; Safety; and Noise.
Each element in General Plan 2040 includes a concise set of background narratives that summarizes current conditions in 
the City related to the topics in the element. The background information provides context about the issues the City plans 
to address, explaining why there is policy direction so that the policies and actions can focus on how the City can achieve a 
desired outcome. The narratives also provide information on other regulations and/or agencies that influence the decision-
making process. Each element in General Plan 2040 addresses a specific set of topics and includes goals, polices and actions 
that provide a blueprint for how the City will address these issues. These goals, policies, and actions provide guidance to the 
City on how to direct change and manage resources over the next 20 years. 
Overall, General Plan 2040 includes 56 goals with 363 policies and 240 actions (excluding the Housing Element). On June 3, 
2024, the City Council held a study session on implementation of General Plan 2040, including how implementation aligned 
with the City Council’s annual goal setting process (Blue Skies) and an overview of the higher profile projects and initiatives 
associated with General Plan Actions that were underway.  The General Plan Implementation Plan can be viewed on 
www.StriveSanMateo.org. Two of the key next steps in implementation were the voters taking action on Measure T in 
November 2024 to allow for full implementation of the Land Use Element and then updating the Zoning Code to allow for 
full implementation of General Plan 2040. In addition to implementing General Plan 2040, the comprehensive Zoning Code 
update will update the entire Zoning Code to be aligned with current best practices, improve usability and public 
accessibility, clarify processes and requirements, streamline the review and approval process, and clean-up conflicts, 
176 of 1111

--- page 177 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
inconsistencies and antiquated language.  
Request for Proposals Process
Following voter approval of Measure T in November 2024, staff began work on a request for proposals (RFP) for a technical 
planning consultant to support the comprehensive zoning code update. The RFP was issued on March 5, 2025, with a 
deadline for submissions on April 11, 2025.  Staff received a total of four proposals in response to the RFP. Following a review 
of the proposals by staff the top two firms were brought in for a follow-up interview. Based on their technical planning 
experience, the contents of their proposal and their team’s familiarity with San Mateo, staff identified PlaceWorks as the 
consultant best qualified to support the City in completing the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update. The full PlaceWorks 
proposal received on April 11, 2025, is included as Attachment 3. The initial proposal had a higher cost; and staff 
subsequently worked with PlaceWorks to refine the Scope of Work and Budget to better align with City needs for this project.
Scope of Work
The workplan to complete this project is broken down into seven tasks and is anticipated to take approximately two years 
to complete.  The proposed tasks and a project timeline are as follows, with additional details in Exhibits A and B (Scope of 
Work and Budget) of Attachment 2.
Task 1 – Project Administration and Management (Months 1-25)
Task 2 – Zoning Code Assessment – Research, Analysis, and Phasing Plan (Months 2-7)
Task 3 – Community Outreach and Engagement (Months 2-20)
Task 4 – Environmental Assessment and Documentation (CEQA Review) (Months 16-23)
Task 5 – Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map and Related Municipal Codes (Months 8-22)
Task 6 – Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings (Months 3-5 & 20-22)
Task 7 – Implementation Plan following Adoption (Months 23-25)
In addition to the implementation of the General Plan, the current Zoning Code (Title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code) 
is outdated and needs a variety of updates to address current development and community needs, reorganization to 
improve public usability, and removal and updates to outdated language, antiquated definitions and conflicting 
requirements.  Overall, the policy effort would start with research and consistency analysis using the policies and actions in 
Geneal Plan 2040 and other best practices to develop an updated framework structure for the Zoning Code. Community 
outreach and engagement along with Planning Commission/City Council study sessions will be utilized to gain insight into 
community preferences and guide decision-making throughout the update process. The consultant will prepare a summary 
of the community engagement efforts which will guide the drafting of Zoning Code Update. Based on the community 
feedback and Planning Commission/Council direction, the draft Ordinance language will be prepared by City staff and the 
consultant team.  
Once a final draft is prepared, it will be published for community input/review and then scheduled for Planning 
Commission and City Council consideration and adoption at public hearing. Along with the updated Zoning Code, all 
parcels Citywide will be assessed for consistency with the General Plan’s Land Use Map, with up to 5,000 parcels 
potentially requiring an updated Zoning Map designation. The engagement effort will include targeted outreach to all 
property owners and tenants who may be subject to a rezoning ahead of any Planning Commission and City Council public 
hearings. Once the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update is adopted, the consultant will work with staff to prepare an 
implementation plan that includes the necessary internal processes and procedures, and informational handouts for 
applicants and the public to support full understanding of the new policies and requirements. The Scope of Work includes 
a robust community outreach and engagement plan, with a range of activities including online surveys, targeted 
stakeholder meetings, virtual and in-person community meetings, a citywide informational newsletter, and various forms 
outreach to promote community awareness. This work will be guided by a detailed outreach and engagement strategy 
that is prepared at the beginning of the project, with the community input collected used to guide decision-making and 
various aspects of the Zoning Code updates. 
177 of 1111

--- page 178 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Action
The Resolution to approve the budget appropriation for the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update project is included as 
Attachment 1 and the professional services agreement with PlaceWorks is included as Attachment 2. Staff recommends 
that the City Council adopt a Resolution to appropriate $926,846 from the Advanced Planning Fund to the Comprehensive 
Zoning Code Update project, approve a professional services agreement with PlaceWorks to provide technical planning 
support, community outreach and engagement, and project management to complete the Comprehensive Zoning Code 
Update project, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The budget appropriation of $926,846 would be funded by the Advance Planning Fund (Fund 225) and would not have an 
impact on the City’s General Fund. The Advanced Planning Fund currently has an available (unrestricted) fund balance of 
approximately $1.9 million. The budget appropriation includes a professional services agreement with PlaceWorks for 
$842,587 and a 10 percent contingency of $84,259 to cover additional services that may be necessary during the course of 
the project.  
In addition to the consultant services, it is anticipated that this project will require significant staff time and resources from 
the Community Development Department and City Attorney’s Office, with an estimated cost range of between $600,000 to 
$800,000 over two years to complete the project. To offset these staff costs, the City applied for and received a Transit 
Oriented Communities (TOC) grant of $610,000 from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) to cover staff time 
related to this effort. While it is anticipated that most of the City staff costs will be covered by this grant, all costs that exceed 
this grant amount will be covered by each Department’s current operating budgets and will not require any additional 
appropriations.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The appropriation of funds and agreement approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the environment.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Budget Appropriation Resolution
Att 2 – Professional Services Agreement with PlaceWorks
Exhibits A and B – Scope of Work and Budget 
Att 3 – PlaceWorks Proposal 
STAFF CONTACT
Sung H. Kwon, Deputy Director of Community Development
skwon@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7203
178 of 1111

--- page 179 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS FOR TASKS AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT RELATED TO THE COMPREHENSIVE ZONING 
CODE UPDATE
WHEREAS, on March 18 2024, the City Council adopted Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040; 
and
WHEREAS, a comprehensive update of the City’s Zoning Code (Municipal Code Title 27) is 
necessary in order to implement the goals, policy and vision of General Plan 2040; and
WHEREAS, in March 2025, a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a Comprehensive Zoning Code 
Update to Implement General Plan 2040 from qualified technical planning consultants was issued; and
WHEREAS, in May 2025, following a review of proposals and follow-up interviews, staff 
identified the proposal from PlaceWorks as being the best suited to support the City’s Comprehensive 
Zoning Code Update project; and
WHEREAS, the proposal from PlaceWorks to support the Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
project is for an amount of $842,587; and
WHEREAS, a 10% contingency, in the amount of $84,259, is included in the event that 
additional services are required during the course of the project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1. This fund appropriation is not a project of CEQA because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).
2. The appropriation of $926,846 from the Advance Planning Fund (Fund 225) to the 
Comprehensive Zoning Code Update project is approved.
179 of 1111

--- page 180 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH PLACEWORKS, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
COMPREHENSIVE ZONING CODE UPDATE SERVICES 
 
 
 
This Agreement made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and PLACEWORKS, INC., a California S Corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 2040 
Bancroft Way, Suite 400, Berkeley, California, 94704. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
A. CITY desires certain technical planning services to support completion of a Comprehensive 
Update to the City’s Zoning Code (Title 27) hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these technical planning services by reason 
of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has 
offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
180 of 1111

--- page 181 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on June 23, 2025 and be 
completed by December 31, 2028. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services (Work Plan) set forth in Exhibit A and the Budget and Rates set forth in 
Exhibit B, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed $926,846. This not to 
exceed amount includes the $842,587 base budget, and a 10% contingency in the amount of $84,259, 
which requires approval by CITY in the event that additional services are required during the course of 
the project. 
 
Any comments or questions which CITY has concerning the contents of an invoice, or the Work 
represented by an invoice must be submitted to CONSULTANT in writing within fifteen (15) days after 
CITY receives the invoice. If no such comments or questions are received by CONSULTANT, the Work 
represented, and the invoice shall be considered correct and accepted by CITY. Payment for invoice 
shall be received by CONSULTANT within forty-five (45) days after the date of the invoice. 
 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, either party 
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon 
ten (10) days' written notice to the other party. CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this 
Agreement upon receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
181 of 1111

--- page 182 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY once payment has been 
received by CONSULTANT, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. If CITY 
desires to reuse any documents or other deliverables, including electronic media, pertaining to the 
project prepared by CONSULTANT, CITY may do so, but if such documents or other deliverables are 
reused by CITY for any purpose other than that for which such documents or deliverables were 
originally prepared, or if CITY causes such documents or deliverables to be altered without 
CONSULTANT’s written consent, such reuse shall be at CITY’s risk. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release, unless required by 
law.  In such a case the CONSULTANT must immediately notify the CITY of the request or subpoena for 
such information and immediately deliver via facsimile or email any legal documents supporting the 
demand for said information 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the 
extent arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligent performance or willful misconduct under this 
Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  
CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against 
any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of 
this Agreement. 
 
182 of 1111

--- page 183 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
183 of 1111

--- page 184 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Zachary Dahl 
Community Development Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
PLACEWORKS, INC 
Attn: Steve Noack, AICP 
2040 Bancroft Way, Suite 400 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
 
184 of 1111

--- page 185 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
185 of 1111

--- page 186 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and PLACEWORKS, INC. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Randal W. Jackson 
President 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Keith McCann 
CEO/CFO 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Budget and Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
186 of 1111

--- page 187 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES / WORK PLAN 
187 of 1111

--- page 188 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
BUDGET AND FEE RATES 
188 of 1111

--- page 189 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
189 of 1111

--- page 190 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
190 of 1111

--- page 191 ---
This chapter describes the scope of services to be completed by the PlaceWorks team for the San Mateo Zoning Code 
Update. To facilitate your review of this proposal, we have prepared a concise scope that emphasizes key 
components of our approach to this project.  
We are flexible regarding the proposed scope of work and will work with you to prepare a more detailed scope when 
we enter into a contract. We also recognize that it may be necessary to alter the scope as the project progresses and 
would be happy to work with you to ensure the successful completion of the project.  
PlaceWorks will meet with City staff to initiate the project via a virtual kick-off meeting. We will review the scope and 
schedule with a focus on the intersection of outreach events and project milestones, keeping in mind the goal of 
phasing the project. This meeting will establish project management procedures, including invoicing terms and 
communication protocols, and data collection approach. In advance of this meeting, the PlaceWorks team will 
prepare a data request document.  
The PlaceWorks project management team will participate in weekly virtual status update meetings with City staff to 
ensure that the project remains on task and budget. Additional PlaceWorks staff will attend meetings as needed. It is 
assumed that the weekly status meetings will be conducted virtually and will average one hour each. PlaceWorks will 
prepare and share a meeting agenda and meeting materials prior to each meeting. PlaceWorks will also participate in 
periodic phone calls with the City’s Project Manager (upon the initiation of either party) on an as-needed basis to 
address any issues that arise between project team meetings.  
The PlaceWorks team will join City staff for virtual progress meetings at important project milestones such as 
completion of certain research and analysis, key community engagement activities, following Planning Commission 
and Council study sessions, and ahead of Planning Commission and City Council adoption hearings. PlaceWorks will 
prepare and share a meeting agenda prior to each meeting. 
PlaceWorks understands that the Strive San Mateo webpage used by the City for the General Plan Update will also be 
used for the Zoning Code Update. PlaceWorks is currently managing the Strive website and will continue to do so to 
provide information about the Zoning Code Update. We will post documents as soon as they are available to the 
public, including summaries of community input, which will be important to keep the community’s trust. The website 
will continue to be usable and functional on all interfaces, including mobile phones, tablets, and computers, and will 
include references/links to City social media accounts.  
PlaceWorks will conduct ongoing project management, including internal coordination, review of project budget, and 
preparation of monthly invoices and progress reports. Amy Sinsheimer will serve as the day-to-day contact for overall 
project management and will oversee coordination of the regular project meetings, budget, and schedule. 
EXHIBIT A and B - Scope of Work and Budget
191 of 1111

--- page 192 ---
Deliverables: 
»
Detailed work program (schedule and timeline)
»
Detailed budget tracking document
»
Agendas and notes for kickoff meeting, weekly check-in calls, and key progress meetings
»
Monthly invoices and progress reports
»
Website mock-up and live versions, plus regular updates and linked documents
PlaceWorks will work closely with staff to continue to collect Zoning Code concerns or issues that should be 
addressed as part of the comprehensive update. Following the assessment of background data, PlaceWorks will 
conduct a review of forward-looking best practices to help guide subsequent Zoning Code update tasks. PlaceWorks 
will also work with City staff to identify potential “best practices” jurisdictions to respond to those issues, in addition 
to PlaceWorks existing database of best practices. This task will also include “deep dives” into six to eight particularly 
complex or challenging topics, such as building height, shared and unbundled parking, use classifications for current 
and future uses, or bird-safe regulations.  
PlaceWorks’ GIS team will develop an internal webmap tool to overlay and compare General Plan Land Uses with 
existing zoning designations at the parcel level. Using the webmap, PlaceWorks will work with City staff to identify 
inconsistent parcels to be updated through the subsequent Zoning Map amendments (Task 5.1). It is our 
understanding that this analysis is expected to identify thousands of parcels in San Mateo where the current zoning 
district no longer matches the new General Plan designations. PlaceWorks will work with City staff to discuss any of 
the parcels identified in the webmap, before City staff responds with recommendations of how to resolve 
inconstancies on each of the parcels. While this analysis will identify inconsistencies, we recognize that rezoning can 
be a sensitive issue for residents and property owners and we anticipate close collaboration with staff to determine 
the smoothest process for notifying residents and explaining these changes.  
PlaceWorks will prepare a table of comparisons, outlining the necessary Zoning Code updates needed to meet 
Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy requirements for density, housing affordability (if any), parking, station 
access, and circulation. This scope assumes that Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s (MTC’s) TOC policy will be 
substantially similar to the version in place as of April 2025. To remain consistent with General Plan 2040 and cover 
the Zoning Code updates with an addendum as described in Task 4, this scope also assumes that any identified policy 
changes for MTC TOC consistency that might trigger a General Plan Amendment would be addressed through a 
separate process.  
PlaceWorks will review and assess other adopted plans and policies against the adopted Strive 2040 General Plan. The 
adopted plans and policies the PlaceWorks team will review include: 
• Bay Meadows Specific Plan and Amendments
(Phases I and II)
• Detroit Drive Specific Plan
• El Camino Real Master Plan
• Hillsdale Station Area Plan
• Mariner’s Island Specific Plan
• Multifamily and Residential Mixed-Use Objective
Design Standards
• San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented
Development Plan
• Shoreline Specific Plan
• City Charter
192 of 1111

--- page 193 ---
For each plan, PlaceWorks will prepare a high-level review of the major plan components, examples of plan provisions 
that conflict with General Plan 2040, and big-picture recommendations for addressing inconsistencies, whether through 
amendments to the other plan or policy, and/or retiring the other plan or policy, if appropriate. The process to complete 
amendments is addressed in Task 7.3.     
Based on input received through the previous tasks, PlaceWorks will prepare a draft framework outline that identifies 
the structure of the code, revisions to the existing code and new provisions to be added. Sections anticipated to be 
focused on in the framework outline include development standards, inclusionary housing requirements, and off-street 
parking regulations. The overall approach to identifying where change is needed will be guided by better addressing 
equity, affordable housing, mobility, community assets, infrastructure, resilience and climate adaptation. We will also 
prepare a template to illustrate the intended format and style of the zoning code. As part of this task, we will ensure 
that the code is set up to be easily accessible, interactive, and searchable. After staff review, PlaceWorks will discuss 
with staff any needed changes. 
In addition to the engagement activities described in this task, Planning Commission and City Council study sessions 
detailed under Task 5.9 will be important sources of input for the project. 
As an initial phase of this task, PlaceWorks will use input from the kick-off meeting to develop a Public Engagement 
Plan for the project. The Public Engagement Plan will provide goals, methods of engagement, and an anticipated 
schedule for outreach components. Keeping in mind the City’s goal to complete this project expeditiously, preliminary 
recommendations for engagement efforts include: 
• Two in-person and two virtual community workshops or open house events
• Up to 12 stakeholder group meetings
• Focused online surveys to informed stakeholders and frequent code users
Each of these components is described in more detail in the following subtasks and may be refined or revised 
following the kick-off meeting. 
In support of the community engagement, PlaceWorks will prepare the following outreach materials: 
• Citywide Mailer. PlaceWorks will prepare a citywide mailer to inform stakeholders about the project, provide a link to
the project website, and publish initial outreach dates as available. This scope of work assumes the City will be
responsible for the mailer printing and postage.
• Flyers. PlaceWorks will prepare up to four project flyers.
• Online Surveys. PlaceWorks will prepare up to four online surveys to seek feedback from frequent zoning code users
to get input on targeted issues the update will tackle.
• Project Mailing List Emails. PlaceWorks will prepare emails to announce upcoming outreach opportunities and public
meetings and other key project milestones.
• Social Media Posts. PlaceWorks will prepare social media posts for the City to update the public about the project.
• City Newsletter Content. PlaceWorks will prepare approximately a half page of content for the Citywide newsletter
providing an update on the Zoning Code process.
All materials will be prepared in English. PlaceWorks will translate the engagement materials into Spanish and 
Simplified Chinese. This scope does not include translation of deliverables from other tasks.   
193 of 1111

--- page 194 ---
PlaceWorks will work with City staff to identify appropriate stakeholders, such as developers, real estate brokers, 
architects, business owners, community groups, government agencies, and property owners, to participate in the 
zoning code update process. We propose up to 12 small-group meetings with invited participants to discuss topics such 
as existing constraints, project feasibility and marketability, potential opportunities, and to review the draft code. 
PlaceWorks will facilitate the stakeholder meetings and will provide support through the preparation of emailed 
invitation language, meeting agendas, and discussion questions for City review. PlaceWorks will coordinate with the 
City to determine if these meetings will be conducted in person or virtually. We assume that the City will be 
responsible for inviting stakeholders to the meetings and managing RSVPs. 
PlaceWorks will facilitate two virtual and two in-person community meetings in the form of an open house or workshop 
that will be held at key points of the planning process. Potential engagement points include introducing the project and 
receiving community feedback on zoning concerns and asking for feedback on the Public Review Draft Zoning Code 
Amendments. For each community meeting, PlaceWorks will prepare draft and final materials, including a meeting 
agenda, sign-in sheet, presentation, open house boards and/or workshop activity, comment cards, and handouts as 
needed. We assume up to three PlaceWorks staff, including one bilingual staff member, for each community meeting 
with additional staffing and interpretation provided by the City. 
PlaceWorks will prepare an engagement summary that recaps all engagement efforts throughout the project. The 
summary will also document key themes and issues that we heard from the community, identify how the project 
responded to community input, and include raw data from outreach events.  
Deliverables: 
»
Draft and Final Public Engagement Plan
»
Citywide Newsletter content
»
Flyers (4)
»
Online Survey (4)
»
Project Emails
»
Social Media Posts
»
Translated outreach materials
»
Community Outreach and Engagement Summary
PlaceWorks will prepare an addendum to the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 EIR, herein referred to as the 
“General Plan EIR” to evaluate the comprehensive zoning code update. This proposed approach to prepare an 
addendum to the certified General Plan EIR is based on the presumption that the proposed zoning code update will 
be within the scope of and consistent with the adopted General Plan and would therefore not create any new or 
worsened impacts than those identified in the General Plan EIR. PlaceWorks recommends an addendum, rather than 
a tiered mitigated negative declaration, because an addendum is a more legally defensible CEQA document. The 
addendum process does not involve a scoping or response to comments process. Additionally, because the zoning 
code update is presumed to be consistent with the adopted General Plan, technical analysis is not required. 
PlaceWorks understands that an earlier, text only, phase of high density zone code updates will also be prepared and 
will require CEQA review. This scope of work assumes that City staff will prepare the CEQA documentation (expected 
to be streamlined review under CEQA Guidelines Section 15183) for the high density zone text changes. Therefore, 
this scope of work only covers the latter, comprehensive phase of zoning code updates (Task 5).  
PlaceWorks’ CEQA Lead, Alexis Mena, will participate in a virtual meeting with PlaceWorks’ zoning team and City staff 
to kick off the CEQA phase of the project. The meeting focus will be to familiarize the CEQA team with the contents of 
the zoning code update, and to discuss the next steps and timeline for preparing the addendum. 
194 of 1111

--- page 195 ---
Following the CEQA kick-off meeting, PlaceWorks will prepare a draft project description of the proposed zoning code 
update. PlaceWorks will provide a revised project description based on City comments as part of the Administrative 
Draft Addendum described in Task 4.3. 
PlaceWorks will prepare an addendum to the certified General Plan EIR. The addendum will include a qualitative 
discussion of the proposed zoning code update and substantiate the appropriateness of preparing an addendum for 
the zoning code update, pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15164. The addendum will not include discussions for 
each of the CEQA-required topical areas. A contract modification would be required for any new modeling or major 
quantitative analysis. PlaceWorks will submit the Administrative Draft Addendum electronically (in Word) for City 
review and comment. 
Using one set of consolidated comments from City staff on the Administrative Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will 
prepare a Screencheck Draft Addendum.  
Using one set of consolidated comments from the City on the Screencheck Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will prepare 
the Final Addendum. This task assumes that comments received on the Screencheck Draft Addendum will be minimal 
and require minor textual edits or revision. This scope of work also assumes that the Final Addendum will be posted 
online for public review but that a response to comments process will not be required. Therefore, this scope of work 
does not include any responses to comments that the City may receive on the addendum. However, we are available 
to prepare responses to comments and addendum revisions, if requested, for an additional cost. 
Following the approval of the addendum and within five days of approval of the zoning code update, PlaceWorks will 
prepare a Notice of Determination (NOD) for submittal to the County Clerk. PlaceWorks will submit the NOD to the 
Governor’s Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation’s State Clearinghouse. City staff will submit the NOD to the 
County Clerk, pay all applicable filing fees at the time of posting, and post on the City’s website. The budget does not 
include payment of any filing fees.  
Deliverables: 
»
Draft notices for the public and for government agencies
»
Draft project description (Word)
»
Administrative Draft Addendum (Word)
»
Screencheck Draft Addendum (Word and PDF)
»
Final Addendum (PDF)
»
Notice of Determination (PDF)
PlaceWorks proposes to complete the zoning code update in one phase. This approach is intended to meet City goals 
of keep the overall schedule close to two years from initiation to adoption of the zoning amendments. The zoning 
code updates will emphasize user-friendliness for both staff and applicants, adding illustrations, tables, and matrices 
to clarify and simplify requirements and processes.  
195 of 1111

--- page 196 ---
PlaceWorks will prepare the Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments for internal review and comment by City 
staff.   
Key amendments will include, but are not limited to: 
• Updates to the zoning map for consistency with the Strive 2040 General Plan land use map and land use designations
• Adding, consolidating, removing, or modifying zoning districts, including for alignment with the General Plan
• Translating stories into building-height limits to align with the General Plan
• Possibly folding overlay district requirements into base zoning districts
• Possibly removing the Bay Meadows Specific Plan zoning district
• Revising development standards for each zoning district
»
Revising development standards in special areas such as Hillsdale Mall, Fashion Island, 25th Avenue, and El
Camino Real
»
Updating floor-area ratio (FAR) for the C1 and C2 districts
»
Updating and consolidating FAR for all zoning districts
»
Updating permitted uses in each zoning district
• Updating parking standards
• Establishing a bird-safe building ordinance
• Establishing a dark sky ordinance
• Updating noise standards
Before preparing the Administrative Draft, PlaceWorks will consult with City staff to determine the appropriate file 
format(s) and preferred tracking procedures to ensure ease of internal use and review. It is assumed that the City will 
provide a single, consolidated set of comments following the review. 
PlaceWorks understands the City is working on other zoning code amendments to be adopted separate from the 
comprehensive zoning code amendments, including, but not limited to, accessory dwelling unit and SB 9 updates, 
historic resources, certain parking requirements, and affordable housing requirements. PlaceWorks expects to 
include those adopted ordinances in the comprehensive zoning code update after they are adopted using the same 
organization as the comprehensive update template and will update cross-referencing as needed at that time.  
Following receipt of consolidated City staff comments, PlaceWorks will prepare a Public Review Draft of the Zoning 
Code Amendments that is suitable to be published on the City’s website.  
Following public review, PlaceWorks will work with City staff to determine edits to make in response to comments 
received on the public review draft zoning code amendments. PlaceWorks will then make revisions and provide the 
Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments to City staff to provide to the Planning Commission and City Council for 
consideration for adoption. The Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments will address any typos or errors and will 
incorporate a summary of edits and responses to comments on the Public Draft from staff, Planning Commission, City 
Council, and the public.  
Following Planning Commission and City Council adoption hearings for the zoning code amendments (see Task 6), 
PlaceWorks will prepare the Final Zoning Code with all revisions in PDF or other preferred format. We assume that 
the City will be responsible for updating the Zoning Code website (e.g., Municode). 
196 of 1111

--- page 197 ---
PlaceWorks will work with City staff to prepare for and attend in-person or virtual study sessions with the Planning 
Commission and City Council at key points in the project. This scope of work assumes up to five total in-person study 
sessions (three Planning Commission and two City Council) with in-person attendance by at least one PlaceWorks 
team member. If virtual study sessions are determined to be preferable to have a greater number of meetings or 
attendance by more PlaceWorks staff, the budget under this task could likely accommodate a larger number of 
meetings. This scope of work assumes that meetings with approval bodies will correspond with project milestones, 
such as providing an overview of the project and engagement plan, to gather input on key issues being considered in 
best practices research and analysis, or at the time of the Public Review Draft. This scope assumes that PlaceWorks 
PIC Joanna Jansen will attend all Planning Commission and City Council study sessions in person.  
Deliverables: 
»
Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments
»
Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments
»
Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments
»
Final Zoning Code Amendments
»
Attendance at and draft agenda reports and PowerPoint presentations for up to five total Planning Commission
and/or City Council study sessions
PlaceWorks will support City staff with packaging and processing the High Density Zones Code Amendments. 
PlaceWorks will prepare necessary materials for the Planning Commission and City Council, including draft hearing 
notices, draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, presentations, and attachments as needed.  
The PlaceWorks team will attend up to one in-person public hearings each with the Planning Commission and City 
Council at the time of High Density Zones Code Amendments adoption, with in-person attendance by at least one 
PlaceWorks team member. Additional hearings may be added to the scope and reflected in any necessary budget 
augments at the request of City staff.  
PlaceWorks will support City staff with packaging and processing the comprehensive Zoning Code update and Map 
Amendments. PlaceWorks will prepare necessary materials for the Planning Commission and City Council, including 
draft hearing notices, draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, presentations, and attachments as needed.  
The PlaceWorks team will attend up to three in-person public hearings with the Planning Commission and two 
hearings with the City Council at the time of Zoning Code adoption, with in-person attendance by at least one 
PlaceWorks team member. Additional hearings may be added to the scope and reflected in any necessary budget 
augments at the request of City staff.  
Following approval of the comprehensive Zoning Code update, PlaceWorks will file the NOD, as described in Task 4.6. 
197 of 1111

--- page 198 ---
Deliverables: 
»
Attendance at and draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, and PowerPoint presentations for up to four
Planning Commission and four City Council adoption hearings
Following adoption of all Zoning Code Amendments and the updated Zoning Map, PlaceWorks will draft an 
Implementation Plan to assist the public and City staff in understanding the key changes to format, style, and 
procedures in the updated Title 27. The implementation plan will be a concise document that uses graphics and other 
tools as applicable to make it user friendly. The plan could include some handouts or brochures to illustrate key 
sections of the zoning code update. This scope of work assumes permit checklist and applications will not be part of 
the Implementation Plan. 
After receiving City staff comments on the Draft Implementation Plan, PlaceWorks will prepare a Final 
Implementation Plan.  
As an optional task, PlaceWorks can build on the high-level evaluation of other plans in Task 2.4 to prepare a more 
detailed, line-by-line review of individual plan provisions and recommend detailed plan amendments for General Plan 
consistency. This scope assumes that any amendments to these plans would happen through a separate process. 
PlaceWorks will attend a training course with City staff to present the Final Implementation Plan and answer 
questions from staff on the updates to Title 27. It is anticipated the staff attending the training will be those who 
work at the counter and use the Zoning Code most frequently. 
Deliverables: 
»
Draft Implementation Plan (electronic PDF format)
»
Final Implementation Plan (electronic PDF format)
»
Optional: detailed evaluation of some or all other plans and recommended amendments
»
PowerPoint presentation and agenda for staff training
PlaceWorks’ proposed schedule for completion of the San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update is shown in 
Figure 1. As shown in the schedule, we anticipate that the comprehensive zoning code update can be completed by 
March 2027, with the implementation tasks completed by June 2027.  
PlaceWorks has a strong track record in meeting project schedules and coordinating closely with its clients. Over 
years of managing projects similar to the San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update, we have developed a 
variety of tools to keep projects on schedule and ensure that staff are well informed at all times: 
• We maintain an up-to-date schedule throughout the project, to ensure that all team members are aware of upcoming
meetings and product due dates.
• We stay in close, regular contact with staff and our subconsultants and document important decisions about the
project in writing, which ensures that decisions are understood by all team members.
• We schedule project due dates for staff and subconsultants with adequate time for editing and formatting into
finished reports.
198 of 1111

--- page 199 ---
• We limit subconsultants’ payments to specific milestones to ensure that progress on the project is commensurate
with billings.
Task 7.3, amendments to other Specific Plans, is an optional task. Costs for these tasks are not included in the costs in 
Table 2 as it is not possible to provide an accurate cost estimate until the potential amendments are identified. 
199 of 1111

--- page 200 ---
The PlaceWorks Team
COST PROPOSAL
Joanna Jansen
Carey Stone
Amy 
Sinsheimer
Alexis Mena
Lance Park
Andrew 
Davidoff
Jose Ayala
CEQA 
Associate
Jennifer 
Hugoo
Zixuan Liu
Leo DiPierro
Rob Mazur
Title
Principal
Senior 
Associate
Senior 
Associate
Associate 
Principal
Senior 
Associate
Associate
Associate
Associate
Planner
 Planner
GIS Analyst
Director of GIS 
Services
Role:
Principal in 
Charge
Outreach 
Lead
Project 
Manager
CEQA Lead
Technical 
Lead
Assistant 
Project 
Manager
Key Staff
Key Staff
Key Staff
Key Staff
Graphics
Technical 
Editing
WP/ 
Clerical
Hourly Rate:
$285
$245
$230
$275
$250
$165
$180
$160
$135
$135
$150
$255
$145
$160
$140
TASK 1. Project Administration and Management
1.1
Project Kick-off Meeting
4
4
10
2
6
4
30
$6,500
$6,500
1.2
Weekly Meetings with City Staff
80
20
100
16
100
52
368
$78,620
$78,620
1.3
Key Progress Meetings with City Staff
8
8
16
6
12
8
58
$12,630
$12,630
1.4
Project Website
2
16
32
2
40
2
40
24
60
12
12
242
$43,140
$43,140
1.5
Ongoing Project Management
56
24
72
10
64
226
$51,710
$51,710
Task 1. Subtotal
150
72
230
36
0
222
0
2
40
64
0
24
60
12
12
924
$192,600
$192,600
TASK 2. Zoning Code Assessment - Research, Analysis and Phasing Plan
2.1
Best Practice Research
12
4
40
64
48
48
20
4
4
244
$43,560
$43,560
2.2
Map Consistency Analysis
12
16
32
16
8
60
10
8
162
$31,130
$31,130
2.3
Text Consistency Analysis/Comparison Table
12
32
16
16
32
16
32
10
8
4
178
$35,530
$35,530
2.4
Consistency Analysis of Other City Plans
16
48
12
16
24
24
20
6
8
4
178
$34,570
$34,570
2.5
Draft Framework Outline
6
24
18
4
6
6
64
$12,450
$12,450
Task 2. Subtotal
58
100
124
0
0
130
104
0
84
36
112
30
30
0
18
826
$157,240
$157,240
TASK 3. Community Outreach and Engagement
3.1
Community Outreach and Engagement Plan
4
16
8
16
8
4
4
4
64
$12,400
$12,400
3.2
Community Engagement Materials and Online Surveys
10
32
8
105
56
4
4
282
$50,260
$50,260
3.3
Stakeholder Meetings
34
34
34
44
208
$47,040
$47,040
3.4
Community Meetings
24
28
20
32
24
158
$32,860
$32,860
3.5
Community Outreach and Engagement Summary
4
6
6
36
4
2
64
$12,000
$12,000
Task 3. Subtotal
76
116
76
0
0
233
0
0
0
8
0
0
84
12
10
776
$154,560
$154,560
TASK 4. Environmental Document (CEQA)
4.1
Initiate CEQA Process
1
1
4
6
12
$2,575
$2,575
4.2
Project Description
1
1
1
6
1
12
2
24
$5,005
$5,005
4.3
Administrative Draft Addendum
2
1
1
10
2
1
20
2
2
4
45
$9,050
$9,050
4.4
Screencheck Draft Addendum
1
4
1
8
2
1
17
$3,425
$3,425
4.5
Final Addendum
1
2
4
2
9
$1,700
$1,700
4.6
Notice of Determination
1
2
3
$595
$595
Task 4. Subtotal
4
2
5
27
2
3
0
52
0
0
0
6
0
2
7
110
$22,350
$22,350
TASK 5. Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map, and Related Municipal Codes
5.1
Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments
30
18
86
82
52
30
24
16
2
48
36
72
496
$88,630
$88,630
5.2
Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments
18
11
66
66
36
24
18
12
24
12
18
305
$55,765
$55,765
5.3
Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments
14
7
58
60
24
20
12
4
12
6
8
225
$42,005
$42,005
5.4
Final Zoning Code Amendments
10
5
28
46
20
16
8
8
2
6
2
16
167
$30,085
$30,085
5.5
Planning Commission (3) and City Council Study Sessions (2)
25
4
36
10
8
18
4
2
107
$22,605
$22,605
Task 5. Subtotal
97
45
274
0
0
264
132
8
90
80
40
4
94
56
116
1300
$239,090
$239,090
TASK 6. Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings
6.1
High Density Zones Adoption Hearing Materials
8
14
4
6
2
34
$4,960
$4,960
6.2
High Density Zones Adoption Hearing Attendance - PC (1)/ CC (1)
10
8
14
3
35
$8,510
$8,510
6.3
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials
8
12
2
2
1
25
$3,670
$3,670
6.4
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Attendance - PC (3) / CC(2)
30
20
34
8
92
$22,550
$22,550
Task 6. Subtotal
40
28
48
0
0
16
0
11
0
26
6
0
8
0
3
186
$39,690
$39,690
TASK 7. Implementation Plan
7.1
Draft Implementation Plan
6
2
12
2
20
20
2
6
70
$12,870
$12,870
7.2
Final Implementation Plan
2
1
8
12
8
1
4
36
$6,515
$6,515
7.3
Specific Plan Updates (optional)
Cost to be provided separately if City desires
0
$0
$0
7.4
Staff Training
8
8
20
16
52
$11,480
$11,480
Task 7. Subtotal
16
11
40
2
0
48
0
0
0
0
0
0
28
3
10
158
$30,865
$30,865
Labor Hours Total
441
374
797
65
2
916
236
73
214
214
158
64
304
85
176
4119
Labor Dollars Total
$125,685
$91,630
$183,310
$17,875
$500
$151,140
$42,480
$11,680
$28,890
$28,890
$23,700
$16,320
$44,080
$13,600
$24,640
$836,395
$836,395
PlaceWorks Percent of Total Labor
10.7%
9.1%
19.3%
1.6%
0.0%
22.2%
5.7%
1.8%
5.2%
5.2%
3.8%
1.6%
7.4%
2.1%
4.3%
100.0%
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
PlaceWorks Reimbursable Expenses
$6,192
EXPENSES TOTAL
$6,192
GRAND TOTAL
$842,587
10% Contingency
$84,259
Grand Total with Contingency
$926,846
PLACEWORKS
TOTAL 
TASK 
BUDGET
Place-
Works 
Hours
PLACE-
WORKS 
TOTAL
200 of 1111

--- page 201 ---
JUN
JUL
AUG
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
JUL
AUG
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
Project Tasks
2026
2027
2025
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Project Administration and Management
1.1. Project Kick-off Meeting
1.2. Weekly Meetings with City Staff
1.3 Key Progress Meetings with City Staff
1.4 Project Website
1.5 Ongoing Project Management
Zoning Code Assessment - Research, Analysis and Phasing Plan
2.1. Best Practice Research
2.2. Map Consistency Analysis
2.3. Text Consistency Analysis/Comparison Table
2.4. Consistency Analysis of Other City Plans
2.5. Draft Framework Outline
Community Outreach and Engagement
3.1. Community Outreach and Engagement Plan
3.2. Community Engagement Materials and Online Surveys
3.3. Stakeholder Meetings
3.4. Community Meetings
3.5. Community Outreach and Engagement Summary
Environmental Document (CEQA)
4.1. Initiate CEQA Process
4.2. Project Description
4.3. Administrative Draft Addendum
4.4. Screencheck Draft Addendum
4.5. Final Addendum
4.6. Notice of Determination
Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map and Related Municipal Codes
5.1. Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments
5.2. Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments
5.3 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments
5.4 Final Zoning Code Amendments
5.5. Planning Commission and City Council Study Sessions
Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings
6.1. High Density Zoning Amendments Adoption Hearing Materials
6.2. High Density Zoning Amendments Adoption Hearings Attendance - Planning 
Commission and City Council
6.3. Comprehensive Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials
6.4. Comprehensive Zoning Code Adoption Hearings Attendance - Planning Commission 
and City Council
Implementation Plan
7.1. Draft Implementation Plan
7.2. Final Implementation Plan
7.3. Specific Plan Updates (optional)
7.4. Staff Training
PlaceWorks Preparation of Project Task
Staff Review of Work Products
Public Review of Work Products
Meetings - Conference Calls or In-Person
201 of 1111

--- page 202 ---
Comprehensive  
Zoning Code Update
Proposal for Services
April 11, 2025
for the City of San Mateo
202 of 1111

--- page 203 ---


--- page 204 ---
Comprehensive  
Zoning Code Update
for the City of San Mateo
Proposal for Services  |  April 11, 2025 
O R A N G E  C O U N T Y    •    B A Y  A R E A    •    S A C R A M E N T O    •    C E N T R A L  C O A S T    •    L O S  A N G E L E S    •    I N L A N D  E M P I R E
www.PlaceWorks.com
Prepared by: PlaceWorks
2040 Bancroft Way, Suite 400 
Berkeley, California 94704 
t 510.848.3815
204 of 1111

--- page 205 ---
205 of 1111

--- page 206 ---
2040 Bancroft Way, Suite 400  |  Berkeley, California 94707  |  510.848.3815  |  PlaceWorks.com 
April 11, 2024 
Jennifer Rosas 
Business Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Subject: San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
Dear Jennifer: 
Please accept the attached submittal as PlaceWorks’ proposal to prepare the Comprehensive Zoning Code 
Update for the City of San Mateo. 
Over the course of the Strive San Mateo project, which began in 2018, PlaceWorks got to know San Mateo 
residents, stakeholders, decision makers, and staff. We understand the nuances of working in San Mateo, 
including the overlapping layers of past planning documents; a passionate and informed public; and 
commitment to sustainability, environmental justice, and community engagement. We are not only 
intimately familiar with the big ideas of General Plan 2040, we share them as personal and professional 
values, so it is particularly meaningful to have the opportunity to move those ideas closer to reality through 
this zoning code update. However, we realize that the work ahead is not idealistic and aspirational, but 
technical, detailed, and complex. Moreover, it will be completed with the high level of public scrutiny 
typical of planning in San Mateo. Our knowledge of San Mateo is complemented by our experience 
bringing outdated zoning codes into the twenty-first century, making them more legible, clear, and 
intuitive. For this project, Carey Stone, Alexis Mena, and I will bring our familiarity with San Mateo and with 
General Plan 2040 and its environmental impact report (EIR), and we will add Amy Sinsheimer as a zoning 
expert and highly skilled project manager, creating an ideal team to meet the City’s needs.  
PlaceWorks has signed multiple contracts with the City of San Mateo. We are confident in our ability to 
arrive at Professional Services Agreement wording we can sign. If the City will allow it, we would appreciate 
the opportunity to submit proposed wording changes for consideration.  
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you need more information. The PlaceWorks team looks forward to 
working with you on this interesting and challenging project. 
We look forward to your response. 
Respectfully submitted, 
PLACEWORKS 
 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP 
Managing Principal, Environmental Services 
 
206 of 1111

--- page 207 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
1 
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
In March 2024, the City of San Mateo (City) adopted General Plan 
2040. To help address the region’s housing crisis, General Plan 2040 
increased San Mateo’s housing capacity by over 19,000 new homes 
and added space for 15,000 new jobs in areas close to transit and 
services, alongside many other ambitious policies and programs. The 
development community has responded to the vision of the new 
General Plan with significant interest; the City has received multiple 
applications for residential and mixed-use projects under Senate Bill 
(SB) 330 in 2024 and 2025. However, even for projects that are 
consistent with the land use designations and high-level policies of 
General Plan 2040, processing these applications is challenging for 
both staff and applicants as long as the zoning code remains 
inconsistent. Many applications include numerous waivers and 
exceptions to try to make a project consistent with both General Plan 
2040 and the zoning code.  
The provisions of General Plan 2040 to increase residential and 
mixed-use development in the 10 Study Areas, including the 
Downtown, Hayward Park, and Hillsdale stations, are broadly 
supported by City decision makers and housing advocates. Staff are 
eager to update the zoning code to simplify and clarify it. However, 
the complexity and expectations that have accumulated over decades 
as the current code has been amended, tweaked, and patched up 
piecemeal will require careful and deliberate work to undo. 
PlaceWorks has prepared a proposal to balance the City’s desire to 
move swiftly to implement General Plan 2040 with the need to 
include staff, stakeholders, and decision makers in a thoughtful and 
thorough process.  
To strike this balance, and in response to the Request for Proposals 
(RFP), this scope would accelerate work on some of the most pressing 
project components, namely updating the list of zoning districts and 
identifying the needed updates to the zoning map for consistency 
with the General Plan 2040 land use map and land use designations. 
We propose to have these two major components adopted 17 
months from project initiation. This scope also recommends an 
addendum to the General Plan 2040 EIR as the appropriate 
environmental document to facilitate adoption.  
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS 
1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1 
2. FIRM PROFILE AND 
CONTACT INFORMATION2 
3. QUALIFICATIONS 
2 
4. PROJECT TEAM 
4 
5. HISTORY AND 
EXPERIENCE 
5 
6. WORK PLAN 
6 
Scope of Work ..................................... 6 
Schedule............................................ 16 
7. REFERENCES 
18 
8. MODIFICATIONS AND  
TASK BREAKDOWN 
18 
Modifications .................................... 18 
Task Breakdown ................................ 18 
9. BUDGET 
19 
Assumptions...................................... 20 
Optional Tasks ................................... 20 
 
Appendix A: Resumes 
 
 
Company Ownership 
Office Locations 
Firm Contact Information 
Company Type:  
California  
C-Corporation 
Santa Ana (headquarters) 
Berkeley 
Sacramento  
Los Angeles 
Chino 
San Luis Obispo 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP 
Managing Principal, Planning Services 
2040 Bancroft Way, Suite 400 
Berkeley, CA 94704 
510.848.3815 ext. 3318 
jjansen@placeworks.com 
Tax ID Number 
95.2975827 
207 of 1111

--- page 208 ---
2 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
2. FIRM PROFILE AND CONTACT 
INFORMATION 
PlaceWorks is a 100 percent employee-owned planning, design, and environmental consulting firm, with 
approximately 140 employees in six offices. Serving both public- and private-sector clients throughout the state, 
PlaceWorks provides comprehensive planning, environmental review, urban design, landscape architecture, 
community outreach, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) services. PlaceWorks was founded in 1975 as The 
Center for Planning and Research. The present-day firm resulted from a 2011 merger of The Planning Center, based in 
southern California, with Design, Community, & Environment (DC&E) in the Bay Area. 
PlaceWorks is financially stable and has sufficient capacity, staff, and resources to successfully complete the project 
on time and on budget. PlaceWorks has never filed bankruptcy and is in good financial standing.   
PlaceWorks does not have any bankruptcies, liens, stop-payment notices, judgments, lawsuits, arbitrations, 
mediations, foreclosures, or similar actions pending. In March 2021, PlaceWorks was named in a cross-complaint, and 
a settlement was reached and the lawsuit was dismissed with no admission of fault on our part in March 2024. The 
original complaint was filed in 2019 against the City of Oakland for breach of contract by Flatiron West Inc., the 
general contractor for the Embarcadero Bridge Replacement project. The City of Oakland cross-complained against 
T.Y. Lin International Group and AECOM in July 2020. T.Y. Lin/AECOM subsequently filed a cross-complaint against 
DC&E/PlaceWorks. DC&E was acquired by PlaceWorks in 2011, and our preconstruction planning role on the project 
ended in 2007.  
3. QUALIFICATIONS 
Relevant Projects 
SAN MATEO GENERAL PLAN UPDATE AND EIR (SAN MATEO, CA) 
PlaceWorks led a multidisciplinary team to update the City’s General Plan and 
prepare an EIR. General Plan 2040 was adopted in March 2024 and identifies 
solutions to address the critical need for housing, improving transportation 
connections citywide for all modes of travel, and confronting the effects of climate change and sea-level rise. Joanna 
Jansen, as the Principal-in-Charge, and Carey Stone, as Project Manager, led all phases of the project: establishing the 
vision and values for the future; creating and evaluating a range of land use and circulation alternatives; updating the 
goals and policies; and creating a user-friendly General Plan and associated EIR. The City emphasized equitable 
outreach throughout the process and PlaceWorks worked closely with the Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center to 
reach Spanish-speaking and low-income residents. The zoning code update is a critical next step in implementing 
General Plan 2040 and moving the community towards the future it envisions.  
TITLE 17 ZONING CODE COMPREHENSIVE UPDATE AND ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT 
ORDINANCE (TUOLUMNE COUNTY, CA) 
Following adoption of the Tuolumne County General Plan in 2019, PlaceWorks 
assisted the County with a comprehensive zoning code update. The update 
focused on changes needed to implement the land use policy direction from the 
General Plan, including focusing growth and development into established 
communities, streamlining housing development, and promoting economic development in the county. The update 
also responded to new State law requirements, including recent legislation regarding housing production, accessory 
Contract Value: $2,845,010 
Dates of Work: April 2018-March
Contract Value: $259,931 
Dates of Work: March 2020-April 
2024 
208 of 1111

--- page 209 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
3 
dwelling units, and other new residential requirements. Through the zoning code update, PlaceWorks modernized the 
code and improved its user-friendliness and established a more logical and streamlined development review process. 
PlaceWorks worked closely with multiple committees, the Planning Commission, and Board of Supervisors to ensure 
the process aligned with County and Board priorities. 
PITTSBURG ZONING CODE UPDATE (PITTSBURG, CA) 
PlaceWorks planning and design staff, with Amy Sinsheimer as Project Manager, 
have been collaborating on a comprehensive code update following on urban 
design efforts to enhance the built environment from block to citywide scales. 
Attention to the importance of form in the key area of Bliss Avenue anticipated to transform the area around the 
Pittsburg e-BART station, plus the precise-plan level effort for transforming Century Plaza, has helped inform the 
comprehensive zoning code update now underway. The comprehensive code update is addressing staff, community, 
and decision maker key issues related to zoning. The project has included the convening of a technical advisory 
committee made up of City staff, focus group meetings with key community stakeholders, meetings with the Planning 
Commission and City Council, and public workshops. At all of these levels, the focus on translating community values 
into feasible development standards that lead to improved sense of place has been paramount. The comprehensive 
code update is expected to be completed in 2026. 
WILDOMAR GENERAL PLAN ZONING CONSISTENCY PROGRAM (WILDOMAR, CA) 
PlaceWorks prepared a comprehensive development code update to match the 
new General Plan for the city. As one of the newest cities in California, Wildomar 
adopted the Riverside County zoning code at the time of incorporation. With the 
update of a new General Plan, the City took the opportunity to create a bespoke 
development code that reflected the needs and vision of the city. The development code simplified the allowable 
uses, streamlined review and approval procedures, and referenced objective design standards previously adopted 
separately by the City. PlaceWorks prepared the development code edits in concert and coordination with the 
General Plan update, and both the General Plan and the development code were adopted at the same council 
hearing in December 2024. 
SOLEDAD SB 2 ZONING ORDINANCE UPDATE (SOLEDAD, CA) 
The PlaceWorks Housing Team, directed by Jennifer Gastelum and managed by Amy 
Sinsheimer, assisted the City of Soledad with implementing their 2020-2028 Housing 
Element, by updating their zoning ordinance and creating an Accessory Dwelling Unit 
(ADU) handbook. The work was funded by an SB 2 Planning Grant. The team’s work on 
the update included updating the zoning code in a variety of areas to be consistent with State housing legislation. The 
team facilitated the adoption of the zoning amendments through the city’s public hearing process and prepared the 
applicable CEQA analysis pertaining to the required amendments.  
GENERAL PLAN AND ZONING UPDATE TO IMPLEMENT THE 6TH CYCLE HOUSING ELEMENT 
(CUPERTINO, CA) 
PlaceWorks completed map and text amendments to the Cupertino Zoning 
Ordinance necessary to implement the City’s recently adopted 2023-2031 Housing 
Element. Key elements of the Zoning Ordinance update included a significant 
increase of allowable housing densities and incentives for the production of 
affordable housing through streamlined processes and regulatory standards that will lead to successful projects. As 
part of the project, the PlaceWorks team led a series of in-person and online focus group and public events and 
presentations to the Planning Commission and City Council to prepare the community for the changes in the built 
Contract Value: $424,000 
Dates of Work: July 2024-Ongoing 
Contract Value: $1,382,960 
Dates of Work: September 2022- 
 December 2024 
Contract Value: $110,625 
Dates of Work: February 2020- 
 August 2023 
Contract Value: $1,096,637 
Dates of Work: March 2023-  
 Ongoing 
209 of 1111

--- page 210 ---
4 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
environment that will be necessary to meet the Regional Housing Needs Allocation and effectuate positive change in 
the form of higher-density housing at all income levels. PlaceWorks is also updating the City’s Health and Safety and 
Mobility Elements and developing objective design standards (ODS) for multifamily and mixed-use development. 
INFILL PROGRAM AND OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS (SACRAMENTO COUNTY, CA) 
PlaceWorks assisted the County in updating its existing Infill Program to further 
encourage infill development and increase and accelerate the production of housing, 
especially affordable housing throughout the unincorporated county. As part of this 
work, PlaceWorks inventoried and prioritized potential areas for infill, analyzed 
development standards and regulatory impediments to development, and developed a toolkit of incentives and 
strategies to maximize infill opportunities. Findings and final recommendations for the Infill Program Update were 
informed by community and stakeholder outreach, including with County departments, partner agencies, and 
advocates. PlaceWorks was also asked to assist the County by updating its mixed-use development objective design 
standards as an initial implementation measure of the Infill Program Update. 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY ZONING CODE UPDATE (CONTRA COSTA, CA) 
Contra Costa County, in the San Francisco Bay area, is a large and diverse county, 
encompassing farms and orchards, intact historic communities, high-density transit-
oriented neighborhoods, suburban subdivisions, and extensive natural open space. 
Guiding development and conservation across this diverse landscape is challenging 
given that major components of the County’s Zoning Code have been in place since the 1940s. PlaceWorks, with 
Joanna Jansen as Principal-in-Charge, is leading a zoning code update to significantly streamline the code and improve 
its accessibility and usability. Our work to update the County’s zoning code began with the preparation of a Zoning 
Update Report to create a roadmap for the comprehensive update. The comprehensive code update is now 
implementing this roadmap to modernize the code, improve accessibility, and implement the new General Plan 
adopted in November 2024.  
4. PROJECT TEAM 
PlaceWorks has assembled a highly qualified team to complete the San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update. 
This chapter describes the key personnel that will be assigned to the project. Resumes for the key staff identified are 
included in Appendix A. Additional materials are available upon request.  
Key Staff 
Name | Title 
Role  
Experience 
JOANNA JANSEN, AICP, LEED AP 
Managing Principal, 
Planning Services 
Principal-in-Charge 
Joanna oversees PlaceWorks’ comprehensive planning practice in Northern California. She most 
recently serves as Principal-in-Charge of Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040, including outreach 
components and the General Plan EIR. She is also currently the Principal-in-Charge of the Contra 
Costa County Zoning Code Update, which, like San Mateo, is implementing a General Plan she led 
that was adopted in 2024. Joanna has managed General Plan updates and other long-range 
planning projects for Palo Alto, Livermore, Vacaville, Morgan Hill, Los Banos, Placer County, and 
Butte County, among other California communities.   
Contract Value: $249,978 
Dates of Work: September 2022- 
 August 2024 
Contract Value: $4,039,000 
Dates of Work: October 2021- 
 Ongoing 
210 of 1111

--- page 211 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
5 
Name | Title 
Role  
Experience 
AMY SINSHEIMER, AICP 
Senior Associate 
Project Manager 
Amy has over 20 years of experience managing and preparing long-range planning and policy 
documents, with a specialty in housing. She has significant experience in public outreach for 
complex projects involving multiple agencies, stakeholders, and team members. Amy recently 
led the comprehensive zoning code update for Tuolumne County, is currently leading the 
comprehensive update for cities of Pittsburg and Salinas, and has also completed targeted 
zoning updates for Soledad and other cities in recent years. She is currently working with the 
City of San Mateo to develop new high-density zoning districts to implement Strive San Mateo 
General Plan 2040. She also has other comprehensive zoning code experience, including hybrid 
and form-based codes along with experience managing General Plan updates. 
CAREY STONE 
Senior Associate 
Advisor/Outreach Lead 
A team member of PlaceWorks since 2007, Carey has experience with a range of planning 
projects, including General Plans, environmental review documents, public outreach 
campaigns, and GIS projects. Specializing in comprehensive planning, she has served as project 
manager on a variety of projects for cities and counties throughout California, including Strive 
San Mateo General Plan 2040. She will provide continuity and local familiarity to efficiently 
maximize General Plan consistency.  
ANDREW DAVIDOV 
Associate 
Assistant Project Manager 
Andrew works on projects throughout California, focusing primarily on policy planning, land 
use analysis, zoning code updates, and economic development. His responsibilities include 
research and writing for general and specific plan updates, updating zoning codes through 
comprehensive revisions and targeted amendments, analyzing housing policies, providing 
technical assistance, and facilitating community engagement. He is currently or recently 
assisting with zoning updates for Pittsburg, Tuolumne County, San Mateo, and Gonzales. He 
brings three years of experience analyzing the aesthetic characteristics of communities and 
developing objective design standards for multifamily and mixed-use projects. 
ROB MAZUR 
Principal 
GIS Lead 
Rob has extensive experience creating maps and datasets for a range of planning projects. He 
specializes in all facets of geodatabase development, data management, web GIS, and spatial 
and tabular analyses for improved decision-making, information retrieval, and cartography. 
Rob is well versed in advanced and current planning practices in both the public and private 
sector. He has brought his GIS skills to a number of General Plan updates throughout 
California, and has managed a variety of mapping projects in Los Angeles County, the Bay Area, 
and beyond. 
ALEXIS MENA, LEED AP 
Associate Principal 
CEQA Lead 
Alexis brings valuable experience in both the public and private sectors, and her work at 
PlaceWorks has focused on environmental review and planning for a range of transportation, 
land use, and sustainability projects, with a focus on Bay Area projects. She recently served as 
the Project Manager for the General Plan Update EIR for the City of San Mateo. She is currently 
serving as the Principal-in-Charge of the Stanford University Belmont Conceptual Development 
Plan and Development Agreement EIR for the City of Belmont and General Plan Reset EIR for 
the City of San Carlos.  
5. HISTORY AND EXPERIENCE 
As demonstrated in Chapter 3, PlaceWorks has extensive experience with similar comprehensive zoning code updates 
and a well-established relationship with the City of San Mateo.   
211 of 1111

--- page 212 ---
6 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
Zoning  
PlaceWorks’ staff bring decades of work experience supporting local agencies with zoning expertise and housing 
policy. We have prepared several zoning code updates for jurisdictions throughout California, representing a variety 
of different communities. Our zoning codes are highly customized to each individual community, and we work closely 
with each client to identify the approach that will most effectively achieve the community’s objectives. PlaceWorks 
has significant experience considering existing historic resources and districts in the zoning process. Our recent work 
spans from ensuring the preservation of targeted components of the San Jose Civic Auditorium, to creating a Transfer 
of Development Rights (TDR) program to protect historic buildings from demolition as part of the Downtown Oakland 
Specific Plan Rezoning project.  
At PlaceWorks, our approach to urban design is enhanced by an expert understanding of transit-oriented 
development, downtown revitalization, and corridor planning. We integrate cohesive transit and streetscape 
networks with their surrounding neighborhoods, buildings, open spaces, and public facilities—all while maintaining 
the unique character of each community. As experts in neighborhood design and site development, PlaceWorks’ 
interdisciplinary approach effectively integrates site engineering, land forming, project programming, community 
structure, building design, and landscape architecture. We provide our public- and private-sector clients with plans 
and designs that work. 
Local Experience 
PlaceWorks has a strong working knowledge and familiarity with the City of San Mateo. Recently, the PlaceWorks 
team led the City’s General Plan Update and EIR, which were adopted in March 2024. While simultaneously updating 
the General Plan, we also led the City’s Climate Action Plan Update, which was adopted in 2020, as well as reviewing 
the City’s Objective Design Standards. We have also provided environmental review and comprehensive planning 
services for the City throughout the years, including preparing the Hillsdale Station Area Plan and preparing an EIR for 
the Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block Reconfiguration Project.  
6. WORK PLAN 
This chapter describes the scope of services to be completed by the PlaceWorks team for the San Mateo Zoning Code 
Update. To facilitate your review of this proposal, we have prepared a concise scope that emphasizes key 
components of our approach to this project.  
We are flexible regarding the proposed scope of work and will work with you to prepare a more detailed scope when 
we enter into a contract. We also recognize that it may be necessary to alter the scope as the project progresses and 
would be happy to work with you to ensure the successful completion of the project.  
Scope of Work 
Task 1. Project Administration and Management 
1.1 
Project Kick-off Meeting 
PlaceWorks will meet with City staff to initiate the project via a virtual kick-off meeting. We will review the scope and 
schedule with a focus on the intersection of outreach events and project milestones, keeping in mind the goal of 
phasing the project. This meeting will establish project management procedures, including invoicing terms and 
communication protocols, and data collection approach. In advance of this meeting, the PlaceWorks team will 
prepare a data request document.  
212 of 1111

--- page 213 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
7 
1.2 
Weekly Meetings with City Staff  
The PlaceWorks project management team will participate in weekly virtual status update meetings with City staff to 
ensure that the project remains on task and budget. Additional PlaceWorks staff will attend meetings as needed. It is 
assumed that the weekly status meetings will be conducted virtually and will average one hour each. PlaceWorks will 
prepare and share a meeting agenda and meeting materials prior to each meeting. PlaceWorks will also participate in 
periodic phone calls with the City’s Project Manager (upon the initiation of either party) on an as-needed basis to 
address any issues that arise between project team meetings.  
1.3 
Key Progress Meetings with City Staff 
The PlaceWorks team will join City staff for virtual progress meetings at important project milestones such as 
completion of certain research and analysis, key community engagement activities, following Planning Commission 
and Council study sessions, and ahead of Planning Commission and City Council adoption hearings. PlaceWorks will 
prepare and share a meeting agenda prior to each meeting. 
1.4 
Project Website 
PlaceWorks understands that the Strive San Mateo webpage used by the City for the General Plan Update will also be 
used for the Zoning Code Update. PlaceWorks is currently managing the Strive website and will continue to do so to 
provide information about the Zoning Code Update. We will post documents as soon as they are available to the 
public, including summaries of community input, which will be important to keep the community’s trust. The website 
will continue to be usable and functional on all interfaces, including mobile phones, tablets, and computers, and will 
include references/links to City social media accounts.  
1.5 
Ongoing Project Management 
PlaceWorks will conduct ongoing project management, including internal coordination, review of project budget, and 
preparation of monthly invoices and progress reports. Amy Sinsheimer will serve as the day-to-day contact for overall 
project management and will oversee coordination of the regular project meetings, budget, and schedule. 
Deliverables: 
» 
Detailed work program (schedule and timeline) 
» 
Detailed budget tracking document 
» 
Agendas and notes for kickoff meeting, weekly check-in calls, and key progress meetings 
» 
Monthly invoices and progress reports 
» 
Website mock-up and live versions, plus regular updates and linked documents 
Task 2. Zoning Code Assessment – Research, Analysis, and Phasing Plan 
2.1 
Best Practice Research 
PlaceWorks will work closely with staff to continue to collect Zoning Code concerns or issues that should be 
addressed as part of the comprehensive update. Following the assessment of background data, PlaceWorks will 
conduct a review of best practices to help guide subsequent Zoning Code update tasks. PlaceWorks will also work 
with City staff to identify potential “best practices” jurisdictions to respond to those issues, in addition to PlaceWorks 
existing database of best practices. This task will also include “deep dives” into six to eight particularly complex or 
challenging topics, such as building height, shared and unbundled parking, use classifications for current and future 
uses, or bird-safe regulations.  
2.2 
Map Consistency Analysis 
PlaceWorks’ GIS team will develop an internal webmap tool to overlay and compare General Plan Land Uses with 
existing zoning designations at the parcel level. Using the webmap, PlaceWorks will work with City staff to identify 
213 of 1111

--- page 214 ---
8 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
inconsistent parcels to be updated through the subsequent Zoning Map amendments in Phase 1 of the Zoning Code 
Amendments (Task 5.1). It is our understanding that this analysis is expected to identify thousands of parcels in San 
Mateo where the current zoning district no longer matches the new General Plan designations. PlaceWorks will work 
with City staff to discuss any of the parcels identified in the webmap, before City staff responds with 
recommendations of how to resolve inconstancies on each of the parcels. While this analysis will identify 
inconsistencies, we recognize that rezoning can be a sensitive issue for residents and property owners and we 
anticipate close collaboration with staff to determine the smoothest process for notifying residents and explaining 
these changes.  
2.3 
Text Consistency Analysis/Comparison Table 
PlaceWorks will prepare a table of comparisons, outlining the necessary Zoning Code updates needed to meet 
Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy requirements for density, housing affordability (if any), parking, station 
access, and circulation. This scope assumes that Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s (MTC’s) TOC policy will be 
substantially similar to the version in place as of April 2025. To remain consistent with General Plan 2040 and cover 
the Zoning Code updates with an addendum as described in Task 4, this scope also assumes that any identified policy 
changes for MTC TOC consistency that might trigger a General Plan Amendment would be addressed through a 
separate process.  
2.4 
Consistency Analysis of Other City Plans 
PlaceWorks will review and assess other adopted plans and policies against the adopted Strive 2040 General Plan. The 
adopted plans and policies the PlaceWorks team will review include: 
• Bay Meadows Specific Plan and Amendments (Phases 
I and II) 
• Detroit Drive Specific Plan 
• El Camino Real Master Plan 
• Hillsdale Station Area Plan 
• Mariner’s Island Specific Plan 
• Multifamily and Residential Mixed-Use Objective 
Design Standards 
• San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan 
• Shoreline Specific Plan 
• City Charter 
For each plan, PlaceWorks will prepare a high-level review of the major plan components, examples of plan provisions 
that conflict with General Plan 2040, and big-picture recommendations for addressing inconsistencies, whether through 
amendments to the other plan or policy, and/or retiring the other plan or policy, if appropriate. The process to complete 
amendments is addressed in Task 7.3.     
2.5 
Draft Framework Outline 
Based on input received through the previous tasks, PlaceWorks will prepare a draft framework outline that identifies 
the structure of the code, revisions to the existing code and new provisions to be added. Sections anticipated to be 
focused on in the framework outline include development standards, inclusionary housing requirements, and off-street 
parking regulations. The overall approach to identifying where change is needed will be guided by better addressing 
equity, affordable housing, mobility, community assets, infrastructure, resilience and climate adaptation. We will also 
prepare a template to illustrate the intended format and style of the zoning code. As part of this task, we will ensure 
that the code is set up to be easily accessible, interactive, and searchable. After staff review, PlaceWorks will discuss 
with staff any needed changes. 
2.6 
Project Phasing Plan 
PlaceWorks will draft a Phasing Plan to submit to City staff for review. The plan will consider the desired project 
schedule along with the importance of moving certain amendments forward on an earlier schedule, and the need to 
214 of 1111

--- page 215 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
9 
gain community support and buy in on the different components of the zoning code update. The following things will 
be considered during development of the Phasing Plan: 
• The Zoning Map amendments phasing should facilitate community and property owner awareness while also 
supporting development proposals that are ready to move forward with entitlement.  
• The establishment of zoning districts for land use designations that do not currently have an associated district should 
be prioritized.  
• The processing of zoning code amendments and Zoning Map amendments should be managed concurrently.  
Following City staff review of the Draft Phasing Plan, PlaceWorks will prepare a Final Phasing Plan based on City staff 
comments. 
Deliverables: 
» 
Draft and final framework outline and recommended approach documents (electronic). 
» 
Draft and Final Phasing Plan (electronic). 
Task 3. Community Outreach and Engagement  
In addition to the engagement activities described in this task, Planning Commission and City Council study sessions 
detailed under Task 5.9 will be important sources of input for the project. 
3.1 
Community Outreach and Engagement Plan 
As an initial phase of this task, PlaceWorks will use input from the kick-off meeting to develop a Public Engagement 
Plan for the project. The Public Engagement Plan will provide goals, methods of engagement, and an anticipated 
schedule for outreach components. Keeping in mind the City’s goal to complete this project expeditiously, preliminary 
recommendations for engagement efforts include: 
• Two in-person and two virtual community workshops or open house events 
• Up to 12 stakeholder group meetings  
• Focused online surveys to informed stakeholders and frequent code users 
Each of these components is described in more detail in the following subtasks and may be refined or revised 
following the kick-off meeting. 
3.2 
Community Engagement Materials and Online Surveys 
In support of the community engagement, PlaceWorks will prepare the following outreach materials: 
• Citywide Mailer. PlaceWorks will prepare a citywide mailer to inform stakeholders about the project, provide a link to 
the project website, and publish initial outreach dates as available. This scope of work assumes the City will be 
responsible for the mailer printing and postage. 
• Flyers. PlaceWorks will prepare up to four project flyers. 
• Online Surveys. PlaceWorks will prepare up to four online surveys to seek feedback from frequent zoning code users 
to get input on targeted issues the update will tackle. 
• Project Mailing List Emails. PlaceWorks will prepare emails to announce upcoming outreach opportunities and public 
meetings and other key project milestones.  
• Social Media Posts. PlaceWorks will prepare social media posts for the City to share to update the public about the 
project. 
All materials will be prepared in English. PlaceWorks will work with the City to determine if some or all of the 
outreach materials should be translated into Spanish. 
215 of 1111

--- page 216 ---
10 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
3.3 
Stakeholder Meetings 
PlaceWorks will work with City staff to identify appropriate stakeholders, such as developers, real estate brokers, 
architects, business owners, community groups, government agencies, and property owners, to participate in the 
zoning code update process. We propose up to 12 small-group meetings with invited participants to discuss topics 
such as existing constraints, project feasibility and marketability, potential opportunities, and to review the draft 
code. PlaceWorks will facilitate the stakeholder meetings and will provide support through the preparation of emailed 
invitation language, meeting agendas, and discussion questions for City review. PlaceWorks will coordinate with the 
City to determine if these meetings will be conducted in person or virtually. We assume that the City will be 
responsible for inviting stakeholders to the meetings and managing RSVPs. 
3.4 
Community Meetings 
PlaceWorks will facilitate two virtual and two in-person community meetings in the form of an open house or 
workshop that will be held at key points of the planning process. Potential engagement points include introducing the 
project and receiving community feedback on zoning concerns and asking for feedback on the Phase 1 and Phase 2 
Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments. For each community meeting, PlaceWorks will prepare draft and final 
materials, including a meeting agenda, sign-in sheet, presentation, open house boards and/or workshop activity, 
comment cards, and handouts as needed. We assume up to three PlaceWorks staff, including one bilingual staff 
member, for each community meeting with additional staffing and interpretation provided by the City. 
3.5 
Community Outreach and Engagement Summary 
PlaceWorks will prepare an engagement summary that recaps all engagement efforts throughout the project. The 
summary will also document key themes and issues that we heard from the community, identify how the project 
responded to community input, and include raw data from outreach events.  
Deliverables: 
» 
Draft and Final Public Engagement Plan 
» 
Citywide Mailer 
» 
Flyers (4) 
» 
Online Survey (4) 
» 
Project Emails  
» 
Social Media Posts 
» 
Community Outreach and Engagement Summary 
Task 4. Environmental Document (CEQA)  
PlaceWorks will prepare an addendum to the Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 EIR, herein referred to as the 
General Plan EIR” to evaluate the zoning code update. This proposed approach to prepare an addendum to the 
certified General Plan EIR is based on the presumption that the proposed zoning code update will be within the scope 
of and consistent with the adopted General Plan and would therefore not create any new or worsened impacts than 
those identified in the General Plan EIR. PlaceWorks recommends an addendum, rather than a tiered mitigated 
negative declaration, because an addendum is a more legally defensible CEQA document. The addendum process 
does not involve a scoping or response to comments process. Additionally, because the zoning code update is 
presumed to be consistent with the adopted General Plan, technical analysis is not required. 
4.1 
Initiate CEQA Process – Phase 1 
PlaceWorks’ CEQA Lead, Alexis Mena, will participate in a virtual meeting with PlaceWorks’ zoning team and City staff 
to kick off the CEQA phase of the project. The meeting focus will be to familiarize the CEQA team with the contents of 
the zoning code update, and to discuss the next steps and timeline for preparing the addendum. 
216 of 1111

--- page 217 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
11 
4.2 
Project Description – Phase 1 
Following the CEQA kick-off meeting, PlaceWorks will prepare a draft project description of the proposed zoning code 
update. PlaceWorks will provide a revised project description based on City comments as part of the Administrative 
Draft Addendum described in Task 4.3. 
4.3 
Administrative Draft Addendum – Phase 1 
PlaceWorks will prepare an addendum to the certified General Plan EIR. The addendum will include qualitative 
discussions for each of the CEQA-required topical areas, referencing the conclusions in the General Plan EIR, 
wherever possible, for the conclusions in the addendum. A contract modification would be required for any new 
modeling or major quantitative analysis. PlaceWorks will submit the Administrative Draft Addendum electronically (in 
Word) for City review and comment. 
4.4 
Screencheck Draft Addendum – Phase 1 
Using one set of consolidated comments from City staff on the Administrative Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will 
prepare a Screencheck Draft Addendum.  
4.5 
Final Addendum – Phase 1 
Using one set of consolidated comments from the City on the Screencheck Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will prepare 
the Final Addendum. This task assumes that comments received on the Screencheck Draft Addendum will be minimal 
and require minor textual edits or revision. This scope of work also assumes that the Final Addendum will be posted 
online for public review but that a response to comments process will not be required. Therefore, this scope of work 
does not include any responses to comments that the City may receive on the addendum. However, we are available 
to prepare responses to comments and addendum revisions, if requested, for an additional cost. 
4.6 
Notice of Determination – Phase 1 
Following the approval of the addendum and within five days of approval of the zoning code update, PlaceWorks will 
prepare a Notice of Determination (NOD) for submittal to the County Clerk. PlaceWorks will submit the NOD to the 
Governor’s Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation’s State Clearinghouse. City staff will submit the NOD to the 
County Clerk, pay all applicable filing fees at the time of posting, and post on the City’s website. The budget does not 
include payment of any filing fees.  
4.7 
Initiate CEQA Process – Phase 2 
PlaceWorks’ CEQA Lead, Alexis Mena, will participate in a virtual meeting with PlaceWorks’ zoning team and City staff 
to kick off the CEQA phase of the project. The meeting focus will be to familiarize the CEQA team with the contents of 
the zoning code update, and to discuss the next steps and timeline for preparing the addendum. 
4.8 
Project Description – Phase 2 
Following the CEQA kick-off meeting, PlaceWorks will prepare a draft project description of the proposed zoning code 
update. PlaceWorks will provide a revised project description based on City comments on the draft project 
description as part of the Administrative Draft Addendum described in Task 4.9. 
4.9 
Administrative Draft Addendum – Phase 2 
PlaceWorks will prepare an addendum to the certified General Plan EIR. The addendum will include qualitative 
discussions for each of the CEQA-required topical areas, referencing the conclusions in the General Plan EIR, 
wherever possible, for the conclusions in the addendum. A contract modification would be required for any new 
modeling or major quantitative analysis. PlaceWorks will submit the Administrative Draft Addendum electronically (in 
Word) for City review and comment. 
217 of 1111

--- page 218 ---
12 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
4.10 Screencheck Draft Addendum – Phase 2 
Using one set of consolidated comments from City staff on the Administrative Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will 
prepare a Screencheck Draft Addendum.  
4.11 Final Addendum – Phase 2 
Using one set of consolidated comments from the City on the Screencheck Draft Addendum, PlaceWorks will prepare 
the Final Addendum. This task assumes that comments received on the Screencheck Draft Addendum will be minimal 
and require minor textual edits or revision. This scope of work also assumes that the Final Addendum will be posted 
online for public review but that a response to comments process will not be required. Therefore, this scope of work 
does not include any responses to comments that the City may receive on the addendum. However, we are available 
to prepare responses to comments and addendum revisions, if requested, for an additional cost. 
4.12 Notice of Determination – Phase 2 
Following approval of the addendum and within five days of approval of the zoning code update, PlaceWorks will 
prepare an NOD for submittal to the County Clerk. PlaceWorks will submit the NOD to the Governor’s Office of Land 
Use and Climate Innovation’s State Clearinghouse. City staff will submit the NOD to the County Clerk and pay all 
applicable filing fees at the time of posting and post the NOD on the City’s website. The budget does not include 
payment of any filing fees. 
Deliverables: 
» 
Draft notices for the public and for government agencies as needed for both phases 
» 
Draft project description (Word) – one for Phase 1 and one for Phase 2 
» 
Administrative Draft Addendum (Word) – one for Phase 1 and one for Phase 2 
» 
Screencheck Draft Addendum (Word and PDF) – one for Phase 1 and one for Phase 2 
» 
Final Addendum (PDF) – one for Phase 1 and one for Phase 2 
» 
Notice of Determination (PDF) – one for Phase 1 and one for Phase 2 
Task 5. Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map, and Related Municipal Codes 
PlaceWorks proposes two phases to complete the zoning code update, with the first phase addressing most critical 
pieces of the update that need to be codified earlier. Phase 2 will address the remaining amendments. This approach 
is intended to meet City goals of adopting some amendments earlier in the process while aiming to keep the overall 
schedule close to two years from initiation to adoption of the Phase 2 zoning amendments. In both phases, the zoning 
code updates will emphasize user-friendliness for both staff and applicants, adding illustrations, tables, and matrices 
to clarify and simplify requirements and processes.  
5.1 
Phase 1 Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments 
PlaceWorks will prepare the first phase of the Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments for internal review and 
comment by City staff. Phase 1 will include:  
• Updates to the zoning map for consistency with the Strive 2040 General Plan land use map and land use designations  
• Adding, consolidating, removing, or modifying zoning districts, including for alignment with the General Plan 
• Translating stories into building-height limits to align with the General Plan 
• Definitions that accompany sections updated for Phase 1 
Before preparing Phase 1 of the Administrative Draft, PlaceWorks will consult with City staff to determine the 
appropriate file format(s) and preferred tracking procedures to ensure ease of internal use and review. It is assumed 
that the City will provide a single, consolidated set of comments following the review. 
218 of 1111

--- page 219 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
13 
5.2 
Phase 1 Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments 
Following receipt of consolidated City staff comments, PlaceWorks will prepare a Public Review Draft of the Phase 1 
Zoning Code Amendments that is suitable to be published on the City’s website.  
5.3 
Phase 1 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments  
Following public review, PlaceWorks will work with City staff to determine edits to make in response to comments 
received on the Phase 1 public review draft zoning code amendments. PlaceWorks will then make revisions and 
provide the Phase 1 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments to City staff be provided to the Planning Commission 
and City Council for consideration for adoption. The Phase 1 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments will address any 
typos or errors and will incorporate a summary of edits and responses to comments on the Public Draft from staff, 
Planning Commission, City Council, and the public.  
5.4 
Phase 1 Final Zoning Code Amendments  
Following Planning Commission and City Council adoption hearings for the Phase 1 zoning code amendments (see 
Task 6), PlaceWorks will prepare the Phase 1 Final Zoning Code with all revisions in PDF or other preferred format. We 
assume that the City will be responsible for updating the zoning code website (e.g., Municode). 
5.5 
Phase 2 Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments 
PlaceWorks will prepare the second and final phase of the Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments for internal 
review and comment by City staff. Determination of amendments to be included in the Phase 2 amendments will also 
occur during earlier tasks in this scope of work and will be detailed in the Phasing Plan in Task 2.6. Phase 2 
amendments will include all remaining amendments not addressed during Phase 1 and will be detailed in the Phasing 
Plan in Task 2.6. They will include, but are not limited to: 
• Possibly folding overlay district requirements into base zoning districts 
• Possibly removing the Bay Meadows Specific Plan zoning district  
• Revising development standards for each zoning district 
» 
Revising development standards in special areas such as Hillsdale Mall, Fashion Island, 25th Avenue, and El 
Camino Real 
» 
Updating floor-area ratio (FAR) for the C1 and C2 districts 
» 
Updating and consolidating FAR for all zoning districts 
» 
Updating permitted uses in each zoning district 
• Updating parking standards  
• Establishing a bird-safe building ordinance 
• Establishing a dark sky ordinance 
• Updating noise standards 
PlaceWorks understands the City is working on other zoning code amendments to be adopted separate from the 
comprehensive zoning code amendments, including, but not limited to, accessory dwelling unit and SB 9 updates, 
historic resources, certain parking requirements, and affordable housing requirements. PlaceWorks expects to 
include those adopted ordinances in the comprehensive zoning code update after they are adopted using the same 
organization as the comprehensive update template and will update cross-referencing as needed at that time.  
5.6 
Phase 2 Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments 
Following receipt of consolidated City staff comments, PlaceWorks will prepare a Public Review Draft of the Phase 2 
Zoning Code Amendments that is suitable to be published on the City’s website.  
219 of 1111

--- page 220 ---
14 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
5.7 
Phase 2 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments  
Following public review, PlaceWorks will work with City staff to determine edits to make in response to comments 
received on the Phase 2 public review draft zoning code amendments. PlaceWorks will then make revisions and 
provide the Phase 2 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments to City staff to provide to the Planning Commission and 
City Council for consideration for adoption. The Phase 2 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments will address any 
typos or errors and will incorporate a summary of edits and responses to comments on the Public Draft from staff, 
Planning Commission, City Council, and the public.  
5.8 
Phase 2 Final Zoning Code Amendments  
Following Planning Commission and City Council adoption hearings for the Phase 2 zoning code amendments (see 
Task 6), PlaceWorks will prepare the Phase 2 Final Zoning Code with all revisions in PDF or other preferred format. We 
assume that the City will be responsible for updating the Zoning Code website (e.g., Municode). 
5.9 
Planning Commission and City Council Study Sessions 
PlaceWorks will work with City staff to prepare for and attend in-person or virtual study sessions with the Planning 
Commission and City Council at key points in the project. This scope of work assumes up to six total in-person study 
sessions with either the Planning Commission or City Council with in-person attendance by at least one PlaceWorks 
team member. If virtual study sessions are determined to be preferable to have a greater number of meetings or 
attendance by more PlaceWorks staff, the budget under this task could likely accommodate a larger number of 
meetings. This scope of work assumes that meetings with approval bodies will correspond with project milestones, 
such as providing an overview of the project and phasing plan after the phasing plan is complete, to gather input on 
key issues being considered in best practices research and analysis, or at the time of the Phase 1 or Phase 2 Public 
Review Drafts.  
Deliverables: 
» 
Administrative Draft Phase 1 Zoning Code 
Amendments 
» 
Administrative Draft Phase 2 Zoning Code 
Amendments 
» 
Public Review Draft Phase 1 Zoning Code 
Amendments 
» 
Public Review Draft Phase 2 Zoning Code 
Amendments 
» 
Revised Draft Phase 1 Zoning Code Amendments 
» 
Revised Draft Phase 2 Zoning Code Amendments 
» 
Final Phase 1 Zoning Code Amendments  
» 
Final Phase 2 Zoning Code Amendments  
» 
Attendance at and draft agenda reports and 
PowerPoint presentations for up to six total 
Planning Commission and/or City Council meetings 
Task 6. Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings 
6.1 
Phase 1 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials 
PlaceWorks will support City staff with packaging and processing the Phase 1 Zoning Code and Map Amendments. 
PlaceWorks will prepare necessary materials for the Planning Commission and City Council, including draft hearing 
notices, draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, presentations, and attachments as needed.  
6.2 
Phase 1 Zoning Code Adoption Hearings Attendance - Planning Commission 
and City Council 
The PlaceWorks team will attend up to two in-person public hearings each with the Planning Commission and City 
Council at the time of Phase 1 Zoning Amendments adoption, with in-person attendance by at least one PlaceWorks 
team member. Additional hearings may be added to the scope and reflected in any necessary budget augments at the 
request of City staff.  
Following Phase 1 Zoning Amendments approval, PlaceWorks will file the NOD, as described in Task 4.6. 
220 of 1111

--- page 221 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
15 
6.3 
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials 
PlaceWorks will support City staff with packaging and processing the Phase 2 Zoning Code and Map Amendments. 
PlaceWorks will prepare necessary materials for the Planning Commission and City Council, including draft hearing 
notices, draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, presentations, and attachments as needed.  
6.4 
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearings Attendance - Planning Commission 
and City Council 
The PlaceWorks team will attend up to two in-person public hearings each with the Planning Commission and City 
Council at the time of Phase 2 Zoning Amendments adoption, with in-person attendance by at least one PlaceWorks 
team member. Additional hearings may be added to the scope and reflected in any necessary budget augments at the 
request of City staff.  
Following Phase 2 Zoning Amendments approval, PlaceWorks will file the NOD, as described in Task 4.12. 
Deliverables: 
» 
Attendance at and draft agenda reports, resolutions, ordinances, and PowerPoint presentations for up to four 
Planning Commission and four City Council meetings 
Task 7. Implementation Plan 
7.1 
Draft Implementation Plan 
Following adoption of all Zoning Code Amendments and the updated Zoning Map, PlaceWorks will draft an 
Implementation Plan to assist the public and City staff in understanding the key changes to format, style, and 
procedures in the updated Title 27. The implementation plan will be a concise document that uses graphics and other 
tools as applicable to make it user friendly. The plan could include some handouts or brochures to illustrate key 
sections of the zoning code update. This scope of work assumes permit checklist and applications will not be part of 
the Implementation Plan. 
7.2 
Final Implementation Plan 
After receiving City staff comments on the Draft Implementation Plan, PlaceWorks will prepare a Final 
Implementation Plan.  
7.3 
Specific Plan Updates (optional task) 
As an optional task, PlaceWorks can build on the high-level evaluation of other plans in Task 2.4 to prepare a more 
detailed, line-by-line review of individual plan provisions and recommend detailed plan amendments for General Plan 
consistency. As noted in the Q and A, we assume that any amendments to these plans would happen through a 
separate process. 
7.4 
Staff Training 
PlaceWorks will attend a training course with City staff to present the Final Implementation Plan and answer 
questions from staff on the updates to Title 27. It is anticipated the staff attending the training will be those who 
work at the counter and use the Zoning Code most frequently. 
Deliverables: 
» 
Draft Implementation Plan (electronic PDF format) 
» 
Final Implementation Plan (electronic PDF format) 
» 
Optional: detailed evaluation of some or all other plans and recommended amendments 
» 
PowerPoint presentation and agenda for staff training 
221 of 1111

--- page 222 ---
16 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
Schedule 
PlaceWorks’ proposed schedule for completion of the San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update is shown in 
Figure 1. As shown in the schedule, we anticipate that the project can be completed by September 2027.  
PlaceWorks has a strong track record in meeting project schedules and coordinating closely with its clients. Over 
years of managing projects similar to the San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code Update, we have developed a 
variety of tools to keep projects on schedule and ensure that staff are well informed at all times: 
• We maintain an up-to-date schedule throughout the project, to ensure that all team members are aware of upcoming 
meetings and product due dates. 
• We stay in close, regular contact with staff and our subconsultants and document important decisions about the 
project in writing, which ensures that decisions are understood by all team members. 
• We schedule project due dates for staff and subconsultants with adequate time for editing and formatting into 
finished reports. 
• We limit subconsultants’ payments to specific milestones to ensure that progress on the project is commensurate 
with billings. 
222 of 1111

--- page 223 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
17 
Figure 1 Proposed Schedule 
 
223 of 1111

--- page 224 ---
18 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  •  Comprehensive Zoning Code Update 
7. REFERENCES 
The following is a list of references for PlaceWorks and more will be provided on request. We encourage the City to 
contact each and every one of these references to gain an idea of our history of work. Project descriptions are 
available in Chapter 3, Qualifications.  
Project 
Client Contact 
Title 17 Zoning Code Comprehensive Update and 
Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance  
TUOLUMNE COUNTY 
Quincy Yaley, Community Development Department Director 
209.533.5961 | Qyaley@co.tuolumne.ca.us  
SB 2 Zoning Ordinance Update and General Plan Update 
CITY OF SOLEDAD 
Megan Hunter, City Manager 
909.774.4201 | mhunter@cityofsoledad.gov  
Zoning Code Update 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
Will Nelson, Senior Planner 
925.674.7791 | william.nelson@dcd.cccounty.us  
 
8. MODIFICATIONS AND TASK BREAKDOWN 
Modifications 
We are not proposing any major modifications to the City’s Scope of Services. 
Task Breakdown 
Most tasks included in the scope of work will be led by PlaceWorks. The table below details instances where City staff 
would perform certain tasks. For all tasks, PlaceWorks will prepare Administrative Draft content. City staff will review 
Administrative Draft content and provide a single set of internally reconciled comments and clear direction.  
PlaceWorks will be responsible for revising and finalizing documents for publication. 
Task 
Notes 
1. Project Administration and Management 
Prepare for and attend weekly and progress meetings. 
2. Zoning Code Assessment – Research, 
Analysis, and Phasing Plan 
Provide direction on research topics and decisions on phasing. 
3. Community Outreach and Engagement 
3.2 Community Engagement Materials 
and Online Surveys 
 
3.3 Stakeholder Meetings 
 
3.4 Community Meetings 
• 
Citywide Mailer. City will be responsible for citywide mailer printing, 
postage, and mailing. 
• 
Social Media Posts. PlaceWorks will prepare social media posts; City will 
share to update the public about the project. 
• 
City will identify and communicate with stakeholders, find meeting 
locations, and manage RSVPs. 
• 
PlaceWorks will provide up to three staff for each community meeting, 
City will provide additional staffing. 
4. Environmental Document (CEQA) 
4.6 and 4.12 Notice of Determination 
(Phase 1 and Phase 2) 
 
City staff will submit the NOD to the County Clerk, pay all applicable filing 
fees at the time of posting, and post on the City’s website. The budget does 
not include payment of any filing fees. 
224 of 1111

--- page 225 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 
19 
Task 
Notes 
5. Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map, and 
Related Municipal Codes 
5.4 and 5.8 Final Zoning Code 
Amendments (Phase 1 and Phase 2) 
5.5  Phase 2 Administrative Draft 
Zoning Code Amendments 
 
 
 
 
5.9 Planning Commission and City 
Council Study Sessions 
 
 
• 
City will be responsible for updating the City’s online zoning code 
website  
• 
City will complete other code amendments to be adopted separately 
from the comprehensive zoning code update. PlaceWorks expects to 
add those ordinances into the comprehensive zoning code update after 
they are adopted using the same organization as the comprehensive 
update template and will update cross-referencing as needed at that 
time.  
• 
PlaceWorks will support preparation of agenda report content and 
presentations. PlaceWorks will attend PC/CC meetings and share 
responsibility with staff for presenting and responding to questions. 
6. Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings 
PlaceWorks will support preparation of agenda report content and 
presentations. PlaceWorks will attend PC/CC meetings and share 
responsibility with staff for presenting and responding to questions.  
7. Implementation Plan 
City to provide information and direction on City procedures, staff roles, 
and training needs.  
9. BUDGET 
As shown in Table 2, the estimated cost to complete the scope of work described in this proposal is $874,613.  
PlaceWorks recommends planning for a 5 to 10 percent contingency fund to cover any unforeseen out-of-scope work 
that might be necessary for the project. 
We are flexible regarding project costs and hope that you will not eliminate us from consideration based on cost 
alone. 
The billing rates for each team member are included in Table 2. 
PlaceWorks bills for its work on a time-and-materials basis with monthly invoices. 
225 of 1111

--- page 226 ---
Proposal for Services  •  PLACEWORKS 20 
Table 2 
Cost Estimate 
 
Assumptions 
This scope of work and cost estimate assumes that: 
• Our cost estimate includes the meetings shown in Chapter 6. 
Additional meetings would be billed on a time-and-materials 
basis. 
• All products will be submitted to the City in electronic (PDF) 
format, except for printed copies that are specifically 
identified in Table 2. This is an allowance only, based on the 
numbers of products and copies shown in Chapter 4. If this 
allowance is exceeded, additional printing costs will be billed 
at PlaceWorks’ actual cost. 
• City staff will be responsible for meeting logistics, including 
schedule coordination, document production, printing 
notices, mailing costs, room reservations, room set-up and 
take-down, and refreshments. 
Optional Tasks 
Task 7.3, amendments to other Specific Plans, is an optional 
task. Costs for these tasks are not included in the costs in 
Table 2 as it is not possible to provide an accurate cost 
estimate until the potential amendments are identified. 
The PlaceWorks Team
City of San Mateo Comprehensive Zoning Code
COST PROPOSAL
Joanna Jansen
Carey Stone
Amy 
Sinsheimer
Alexis Mena
Lance Park
Andrew 
Davidoff
Jose Ayala
CEQA 
Associate
Jennifer 
Hugoo
Zixuan Liu
Leo DiPierro
Rob Mazur
Title
Principal
Senior 
Associate
Senior 
Associate
Associate 
Principal
Senior 
Associate
Associate
Associate
Associate
Planner
 Planner
GIS Analyst
Director of GIS 
Services
Role:
Principal in 
Charge
Outreach 
Lead
Project 
Manager
CEQA Lead
Technical 
Lead
Assistant 
Project 
Manager
Key Staff
Key Staff
Key Staff
Key Staff
Graphics
Technical 
Editing
WP/ 
Clerical
Hourly Rate:
$285
$245
$230
$270
$245
$165
$180
$155
$135
$135
$150
$255
$145
$160
$140
TASK 1. Project Administration and Management
1.1
Project Kick-off Meeting
4
4
8
2
4
4
26
$5,700
1.2
Weekly Meetings with City Staff
40
16
100
16
100
52
324
$66,160
1.3
Key Progress Meetings with City Staff
8
8
16
6
12
8
58
$12,600
1.4
Project Website
2
16
32
2
40
2
40
24
60
12
12
242
$43,120
1.5
Ongoing Project Management
16
20
40
8
48
132
$28,740
Task 1. Subtotal
70
64
196
34
0
204
0
2
40
64
0
24
60
12
12
782
$156,320
TASK 2. Zoning Code Assessment - Research, Analysis and Phasing Plan
2.1
Best Practice Research
12
4
40
64
48
48
20
4
4
244
$43,560
2.2
Map Consistency Analysis
12
16
32
16
8
60
10
8
162
$31,130
2.3
Text Consistency Analysis/Comparison Table
12
32
16
16
32
16
32
10
8
4
178
$35,530
2.4
Consistency Analysis of Other City Plans
16
48
12
16
24
24
20
6
8
4
178
$34,570
2.5
Draft Framework Outline
6
24
18
4
6
6
64
$12,450
2.6
Project Phasing Plan
8
4
32
8
2
4
58
$12,790
Task 2. Subtotal
66
104
156
0
0
138
104
0
84
36
112
30
32
0
22
884
$170,030
TASK 3. Community Outreach and Engagement
3.1
Community Outreach and Engagement Plan
4
16
8
16
8
4
4
4
64
$12,400
3.2
Community Engagement Materials and Online Surveys
12
35
10
73
80
4
4
218
$39,140
3.3
Stakeholder Meetings
72
72
72
96
312
$70,560
3.4
Community Meetings
32
40
32
56
40
200
$41,320
3.5
Community Outreach and Engagement Summary
4
8
6
40
4
2
64
$12,000
Task 3. Subtotal
124
171
128
0
0
281
0
0
0
8
0
0
124
12
10
858
$175,420
TASK 4. Environmental Document (CEQA)
4.1
Initiate CEQA Process - Phase 1
1
1
4
6
12
$2,525
4.2
Project Description - Phase 1
1
1
1
8
1
16
2
30
$6,075
4.3
Administrative Draft Addendum - Phase 1
2
1
1
20
4
1
40
6
2
4
81
$16,200
4.4
Screencheck Draft Addendum - Phase 1
1
6
1
12
2
1
23
$4,525
4.5
Final Addendum - Phase 1
1
3
4
2
10
$1,940
4.6
Notice of Determination - Phase 1
1
2
3
$580
4.7
Initiate CEQA Process - Phase 2
4
6
10
$2,010
4.8
Project Description - Phase 2
1
1
1
8
1
16
2
30
$6,075
4.9
Administrative Draft Addendum - Phase 2
2
1
1
20
4
1
40
6
2
4
81
$16,200
4.10
Screencheck Draft Addendum - Phase 2
1
6
1
12
2
1
23
$4,525
4.11
Final Addendum - Phase 2
1
3
4
2
10
$1,940
4.12
Notice of Determination - Phase 2
1
2
3
$580
Task 4. Subtotal
7
4
9
84
8
6
0
160
0
0
0
20
0
4
14
316
$63,175
TASK 5. Updates to Zoning Code, Zoning Map, and Related Municipal Codes
5.1
Phase 1 Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments
12
6
36
26
20
10
8
8
2
16
12
24
180
$32,800
5.2
Phase 1 Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments
6
3
22
22
12
8
6
4
8
4
6
101
$18,425
5.3
Phase 1 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments
6
3
22
20
16
8
4
2
4
2
3
90
$16,925
5.4
Phase 1 Final Zoning Code Amendments
4
2
10
18
8
6
4
4
3
1
4
64
$11,445
5.5
Phase 2 Administrative Draft Zoning Code Amendments
18
12
50
56
32
20
16
8
32
24
48
316
$55,830
5.6
Phase 2 Public Review Draft Zoning Code Amendments
12
8
44
44
24
16
12
8
16
8
12
204
$37,340
5.7
Phase 2 Revised Draft Zoning Code Amendments
8
4
36
40
8
12
8
2
8
4
5
135
$25,080
5.8
Phase 2 Final Zoning Code Amendments
6
3
18
28
12
10
4
4
2
3
1
12
103
$18,640
5.9
Planning Commission (3) and City Council Study Sessions (3)
20
4
40
12
8
20
8
2
114
$23,240
Task 5. Subtotal
92
45
278
0
0
266
132
8
90
82
40
4
98
56
116
1307
$239,725
TASK 6. Zoning Code Amendment Adoption Hearings
6.1
Phase 1 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials
8
14
4
6
2
34
$4,960
6.2
Phase 1 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Attendance - PC (2) and CC (2)
3
16
28
6
53
$12,145
6.3
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Materials
8
12
2
2
1
25
$3,670
6.4
Phase 2 Zoning Code Adoption Hearing Attendance - PC (2) and CC(2)
3
16
28
6
53
$12,145
Task 6. Subtotal
6
32 56
0
0
16
0
12
0
26
6
0
8
0
3 165
$32,920
TASK 7. Implementation Plan
7.1
Draft Implementation Plan
6
2
12
2
20
20
2
6
70
$12,860
7.2
Final Implementation Plan
2
1
8
12
8
1
4
36
$6,515
7.3
Specific Plan Updates (optional)
Cost to be provided separately if City desires
0
$0
7.4
Staff Training
8
8
20
16
52
$11,480
Task 7. Subtotal
16
11
40
2
0
48
0
0
0
0
0
0
28
3
10
158
$30,855
Labor Hours Total
381
431
863
120
8
959
236
182
214
216
158
78
350
87
187
4470
Labor Dollars Total
$108,585
$105,595
$198,490
$32,400
$1,960
$158,235
$42,480
$28,210
$28,890
$29,160
$23,700
$19,890
$50,750
$13,920
$26,180
$868,445
PlaceWorks Percent of Total Labor
8.5%
9.6%
19.3%
2.7%
0.2%
21.5%
5.3%
4.1%
4.8%
4.8%
3.5%
1.7%
7.8%
1.9%
4.2%
100.0%
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
PlaceWorks Reimbursable Expenses
$6,168
EXPENSES TOTAL
$6,168
GRAND TOTAL
$874,613
PLACEWORKS
TOTAL 
TASK 
BUDGET
Place-
Works 
Hours
226 of 1111

--- page 227 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
227 of 1111

--- page 228 ---
From:
Jeremy Levine
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Zachary Dahl; Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Public Comment: Agenda Items 15 & 38, Comprehensive Zoning Update + Inclusionary Zoning Update
Date:
Monday, June 16, 2025 2:21:22 PM
Good afternoon city council members and staff, 
HLC appreciates the work staff have done to implement Measure T with a comprehensive
zoning update and implement the housing element with updates to the Below Market Rate
housing program. We hope both processes will result in a streamlined, modern zoning code
that facilitates development allowed by the voter-approved general plan update. Voters
supported the general plan update because they want more housing at all levels of
affordability, and the city should move as quickly as possible to make that housing easier to
build.  
To that end, we write with recommendations for changes and additions to Placework's
Proposal for Services and the Below Market Rate program update. 
Comprehensive Zoning Update
First, the city can reduce costs and potentially speed up the timeline by streamlining
community input. To the extent additional community input is necessary after the six-year
general plan update, it should focus on user input for the zoning code. Focus groups and
targeted surveys, as proposed in the Placeworks RFP response, may help generate useful
feedback. However, open houses will not yield new information after the many public
meetings that the city already held for the General Plan. Instead, the city should encourage
interested residents to attend planning commission and city council hearings. 
Bigger picture, in order to most effectively promote housing pursuant to the voter-approved
General Plan, both phases of the zoning code update should focus on broadly reducing the full
spectrum of constraints to housing. Ideally, this update will streamline the code and make it
more user friendly in a variety of ways, not just by modifying Floor Area Ratios or revising
development standards in special areas. Cities like Cambride, Massachussetes and Spokane,
Washington have recently moved to completely eliminate redundant policies like floor area
ratios, which are unnecessary in cities that already regulate height and density. 
San Mateo should strive to be similarly innovative. To that end, we recommend adding two
additional bullets to the phase 2 scope agreement: 
Streamline redundant density controls, including but not limited to Floor Area Ratios,
massing requirements, setbacks, minimum lot sizes, minimum unit sizes, and all other
development standards
Simplify the zoning code to remove circular references and broaden allowable uses in
all districts. 
Under today's code, developers in San Mateo regularly use a dozen or more density bonus
concessions or waivers to end run around the city's onerous rules. Property owners with less
experience simply forego development they might otherwise pursue due to the code's
complexity. Emphasizing code simplification will ensure San Mateo's zoning code update
results in a better development process--and more homes at all levels of affordability--rather
228 of 1111

--- page 229 ---
than inadvertently adding more hoops.
Adding In-Lieu Fees to the BMR Program

Updates to San Mateo's Below Market Rate housing program also present an opportunity to
make San Mateo's zoning code more accessible to a wider range of users. Specifically, HLC
supports efforts to promote alternative methods for compliance with inclusionary
requirements. The current staff report suggests allowing off-site development of affordable
units and adding "an option that allows developers to propose an alternative."

To maximize usability of the code, the city should also actively encourage an in-lieu fee
option for all projects (current city rules allow in-lieu fees for developments of six to ten units
but not more). In-lieu fees provide funding for deeply affordable homes, which on- and off-
site inclusionary development rarely provides (onsite inclusionary low-income homes
typically meet 80% AMI, whereas in-lieu fees can fund 100% affordable developments that
include some units at the 30-50% AMI level). The fees can result in more affordable homes in
the long term by facilitating more development overall, which results in more total fee revenue
to fund more homes.

Theoretically, the city's proposal to add "an option that allows developers to propose an
alternative" to meeting the BMR rules will provide flexibility to pay in-lieu fees. However,
that proposal fails to provide certainty, opening projects to discretionary approval.
Discretionary approval processes will add significant time to project approvals and require
substantial staff resources to review, decreasing the likelihood real projects will ever choose to
pay in-lieu fees. Clearly defined in-lieu fee options will guarantee future builders have a
pathway to develop that generates revenue for deeply affordable homes.

Both San Mateo's comprehensive zoning update and its Below Market Rate ordinance update
present an opportunity to promote flexibility in development. This flexibility will provide
more high-quality housing options at a range of affordability.

Thank you for your leadership and consideration,
Jeremy

Jeremy Levine (he « him)

Policy Manager

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County

229 of 1111


--- page 230 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 25-9833
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Public Use Easement Dedication Acceptance for Property Located at 200 N. Quebec Street – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept the grant of public use easement for pedestrian and vehicular parking access along Monte 
Diablo Avenue for the property located at 200 N. Quebec Street in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Guy Fong (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) on November 11, 2023, submitted planning application PA-2023-075 with 
the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit for property located at 200 N Quebec Street to allow a community service 
use for a basketball training facility (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”). The planning 
application was entitled under Resolution No. 2 (2025) by the Planning Commission at a regular meeting held on February 
25, 2025. 
The planning application approval was conditioned upon the dedication of an easement for pedestrian and vehicular 
parking access along Monte Diablo Avenue. The Project’s public improvements include installation of seven parking stalls 
and realigning the pedestrian sidewalk access. Four of the seven parking stalls will be dedicated for public use, and the 
remaining three are reserved for private use to satisfy the Project’s parking requirements. A portion of the proposed 
parking stalls extends into the Project’s property from the Public Right-of-Way, and the existing sidewalk will be relocated 
onsite. The total easement to be dedicated contains approximately 1,145 square feet by extending 11.66 ft into the Project 
property from the Public Right-of-Way along the Monte Diablo Avenue frontage.
BUDGET IMPACT:
All staff costs associated with review and approval of this easement dedication is paid for by the Applicant through permit 
fees based on the current Master Fee Schedule.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The acceptance of this easement dedication is not a project for CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
230 of 1111

--- page 231 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
John Thompson, Assistant Engineer
thompson@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7577
231 of 1111

--- page 232 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
ACCEPTING THE PUBLIC USE EASEMENT DEDICATION 
FOR PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING ACCESS 
FOR 200 N. QUEBEC ST, SAN MATEO 
 
 
WHEREAS, Guy Fong (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) on November 11, 2023, submitted a 
planning application PA-2023-075 with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit for property located at 200 
N. Quebec Street to allow a community service use for a basketball training facility (collectively referred to as 
“Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
 
WHEREAS,  the planning application was entitled under Resolution No. 2 (2025) by the Planning 
Commission of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting held on February 25, 2025. Condition of 
Approval No. 4 for this project entitlement requires an easement dedication for pedestrian and vehicular 
parking access along Monte Diablo Avenue; and 
 
 
WHEREAS,   the offsite improvements include installation of seven parking stalls and relocating 
pedestrian sidewalk access. The total easement to be dedicated contains 1145 square feet, more or less, and will 
be 11.66 ft into the Project property line from the Public Right-of-Way along Monte Diablo Avenue. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:  
1. The acceptance of this easement dedication is not a project for CEQA because it can be seen with 
certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code 21065.) 
2. The City Council accepts the dedication of a Public Use Easement and authorizes the City Manager 
to execute the dedication, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
 
 
232 of 1111

--- page 233 ---
Exhibit A 
Grant of Pedestrian and Parking Access Easement 
 
233 of 1111

--- page 234 ---
RECORDING REQUESTED BY 
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL 
DOCUMENT TO: 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Attn:  City Clerk 
 
 
A.P.N.:033-090-090 
GRANT OF PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING ACCESS EASEMENT 
The undersigned Grantor declares: 
DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX -$0-;  
CITY TRANSFER TAX -$0-; and 
SURVEY MONUMENT FEE -$0-, 
 
[     ] computed on the consideration or full value of property conveyed, OR 
[     ] computed on the consideration or full value less value of liens and/or encumbrances 
remaining at time of sale, 
[     ] unincorporated area;  
[ X ] City of SAN MATEO, and 
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, the receipt and sufficiency of which are 
hereby acknowledged, CITISTAR, INC 
hereby GRANTS to The City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation, 
A public use easement for pedestrian and vehicular parking access on, across, and over that certain 
area of land described and shown on Exhibits “A” and “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein 
by reference, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California.  
 
[Signatures Follow on Next Page]
Space Above This Line for Recorder’s Use Only 
2025.05.05
CSG - PC#4
ZB
RECOMMENDED FOR
APPROVAL
234 of 1111

--- page 235 ---
Dated: _____________________________, 2025 
 
CITISTAR, INC. 
By:________________________________ 
Name:______________________________ 
Title:_______________________________ 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies 
only the identity of the individual who signed the document to which 
this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or 
validity of that document. 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) SS 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO  
 
) 
On ________________________________, before me, _________________________________, Notary 
Public, personally appeared ______________________________________________________________ 
_____________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the 
person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they 
executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the 
instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph 
is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
Signature 
_________________________________ 
My Commission Expires: ___________________
This area for official notarial seal 
Notary Name:____________________________
Notary Phone:____________________________
Notary Registration Number:________________
County of Principal Place of Business:_________
 
 
235 of 1111

--- page 236 ---
CERTIFICATE OF ACCEPTANCE 
This is to certify that the interest in real property conveyed by this Grant of Pedestrian and Parking Access 
Easement dated __________, 2025, from Grantor to the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation, is hereby 
accepted by order of its City Council’s Resolution No. ______________, adopted _________________, 2025, 
and the City of San Mateo consents to the recordation thereof by its duly authorized officer. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO,  
a municipal corporation
 
Date:  ____________________, 2025 
___________________________________
 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies 
only the identity of the individual who signed the document to which 
this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or 
validity of that document. 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
) SS 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO  
 
) 
On ________________________________, 2025, before me, _________________________________, Notary 
Public, personally appeared ______________________________________________________________ 
_____________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the 
person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they 
executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the 
instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph 
is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
Signature 
_________________________________ 
My Commission Expires: _________________
This area for official notarial seal 
Notary Name:____________________________
Notary Phone:____________________________
Notary Registration Number:________________
County of Principal Place of Business:_________
 
 
 
 
 
236 of 1111

--- page 237 ---
EXHIBIT “A” 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING ACCESS EASEMENT 
THE LAND REFERRED TO HEREIN BELOW IS SITUATED IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY 
OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA AND IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
A PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING ACCESS EASEMENT OVER A PORTION OF THE LANDS 
DESCRIBED IN THE GRANT DEED OF DOC# 2023-015168, RECORDED APRIL 5, 2023, SAN MATEO 
COUNTY RECORDS AND MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH BEARS NORTH 48° 38' EAST 126.67 FEET FROM THE 
SOUTHEASTERLY CORNER OF LOT 11 IN BLOCK 4, AS SAID LOT AND BLOCK ARE SHOWN ON 
THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "DORÉ SUBDIVISION SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, 
CALIF.," FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF 
CALIFORNIA, ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1952 IN BOOK 35 OF MAPS AT PAGE 44; THENCE FROM SAID 
POINT OF BEGINNING, NORTH 48°38'00"EAST  A DISTANCE OF 90.00 FEET ALONG THE 
SOUTHWESTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF MONTE DIABLO AVENUE  TO THE 
NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF THAT CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND DESCRIBED IN DEED FROM CITY 
OF SAN MATEO TO JOHN H. DORÉ AND KATHLEEN M. DORÉ, HIS WIFE, DATED JANUARY 23, 
1952 AND RECORDED ON APRIL 5, 1956 IN BOOK 2998 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO 
COUNTY AT PAGE 717; THENCE ALONG SAID NORTHEASTERLY LINE  NORTH 41°22'00"WEST  A 
DISTANCE OF 11.66 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 48°38'00"WEST  A DISTANCE OF 100.00 FEET TO THE 
NORTHEASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF QUEBEC STREET;  THENCE ALONG SAID 
NORTHEASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE SOUTH 41°22'00"EAST  A DISTANCE OF 1.66 FEET; 
THENCE EASTERLY ALONG THE ARC OF A CURVE TO THE LEFT WITH A RADIUS OF 10.00 FEET,  
A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 90°00'00" AND AN ARC LENGTH OF 15.71 FEET TO THE POINT OF 
BEGINNING.  
CONTAINING 1145 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS  
AS SHOWN ON EXHIBIT “B”, ATTACHED HERETO AND MADE A PART HEREOF 
END OF DESCRIPTION 
PREPARED BY ME OR UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 
LOUIS WADE HAMMOND   PLS 6163  4-18-2025 
 
 
237 of 1111

--- page 238 ---
EXHIBIT B
PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL DESCRIP TION
FOR PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING ACCESS
EASEMENT

LANDS OF CITY OF SAN MATEO
S41°22’00"E (FORMERLY BAYSIDE PARK)

N41°22’°00°W 30.00’
11.66’ PEDESTRIAN AND PARKING

ACCESS EASEMENT

LANDS OF DORE 1145 SF+—
2998 OR 717

200 N. QUEBEC ST.
SAN MATEO S|
APN: 033-090-090
DOC# 2023-015168
0.406 ACRES
17679 SQ. FT.

N48°38’00"E
N48°38'00"E

N48°38'00°E
WIDE)

(55°

GRAPHIC SCALE
20 O 10 20

POINT OF

( IN FEET )
1 inch = 20 ft. BEGINNING

MONTE DIABLO AVE.

0.00’ \

0000000022,
LAND
Q009005 0,

oO 0,
WADE Ng

S41°22’00"E ,
L=15.71' R=
107,09 $41°22’00"E D=90°00’00”
1.66’ ; |

N. QUEBEC SI.

(50’ WIDE)

—.

N48°38’00"E
2023-015168

+

PLS 6163

SOUTHEASTERLY CORNER, LOT 11, BLOCK 4,
BOOK 35 OF MAPS AT PAGE 44 NJ)

LOT 11
(35 M 44)

L. Wade Hammond
Land Surveying
Civil Engineering
36660 Newark Blvd. Suite C
Newark, California 94560 PRAGUE ST.

Tel: (510)579-6112
wade@whlandsurveyor.com www.wadehammondpls.com

238 of 1111


--- page 239 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 25-9969
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Humboldt Street Paving with the City of Burlingame – Cost Sharing Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Burlingame for the Paving of Humboldt Street in conjunction with 
Burlingame’s 2025 Street Resurfacing Project; and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
Both the City of San Mateo and the City of Burlingame administer pavement management programs and construct annual 
pavement rehabilitation projects. The City of Burlingame has selected North Humboldt Street, between Peninsula Avenue 
and Amphlett Boulevard, as part of its 2025 Street Resurfacing Project. The city limit between the two cities lies within the 
center of the roadway in this portion of Humboldt Street. This joint effort aligns with both cities’ goals to leverage 
resources, promote regional cooperation, and improve infrastructure in a fiscally responsible manner.
 
This Cost Sharing Agreement will provide the City of Burlingame funds to include the City of San Mateo’s portion of 
Humboldt Street for pavement rehabilitation as part of their 2025 street resurfacing project. The agreement proposes that 
the City of Burlingame will serve as the lead agency for project delivery, including design, bidding, construction 
management, and inspection. The estimated fiscal obligation for the City of San Mateo is $150,000. This amount will be 
funded from the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Program budget.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Program (469997) to fund this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this Cost Sharing Agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA, because the underlying project within the City 
of San Mateo consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing 
public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no 
expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
239 of 1111

--- page 240 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Piñon, Senior Engineer
spinon@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
240 of 1111

--- page 241 ---
Page 1 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
COST SHARING AGREEMENT FOR PAVING OF HUMBOLDT STREET IN 
CONJUNCTION WITH THE BURLINGAME 
2025 STREET RESURFACING PROJECT 
 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF BURLINGAME, 
AND  
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
This Cost Sharing Agreement for paving of Humboldt Street in conjunction with 
the Burlingame 2025 Street Resurfacing Project, Project No. 86970 (“Agreement”) entered 
into by and among the CITY OF BURLINGAME, a municipal corporation in the County 
of San Mateo, State of California, hereinafter called “Burlingame”, and the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation in the County of San Mateo, State of California, 
hereinafter called “San Mateo” (each a “Party” and collectively the “Parties”), and is made 
effective as of _________________, 2025 and is based on the following: 
 
R E C I T A L S: 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into an agreement to provide for the 
allocation of costs for construction and construction management of the application of a 
street resurfacing on Humboldt Street (between Rollins Road and Peninsula Avenue) in 
conjunction with the City of Burlingame’s 2025 Street Resurfacing Project, Project No. 
86970 (“Project”), as further described below, including staff costs, and to establish the 
roles and responsibilities of the parties for completion of construction and construction 
management, and to enter into this Agreement to establish those obligations; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, certain elements incorporated into the Project may provide benefit to 
only certain parties to this Agreement and each Party agrees to pay the full costs of elements 
which are to their sole benefit and to share the cost of those elements that are of mutual 
benefit; and,  
 
241 of 1111

--- page 242 ---
Page 2 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
 
WHEREAS, the portions of the Project of interest to San Mateo are shown on 
Exhibit “A”, attached to and incorporated into this Agreement by this reference; and, 
 
 
WHEREAS, a detailed estimate of costs for construction, construction 
management, and design are shown on Exhibit “B”, attached to and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows: 
 
Section 1.  Definitions   
 
The following definitions apply to terms used in this Agreement: 
 
“Line-Specific Costs” means the actual cost of materials, labor and all associated 
incidentals to construct the improvements on Humboldt Street, including the billings of the 
contractor and any consultants. 
 
“Shared Costs” means the costs of labor and materials that are for the mutual benefit of the 
Parties including mobilization, storm water control, traffic control, and construction 
inspection. 
 
“Project Costs” includes all costs incurred by the Lead Agency specifically to implement 
and complete construction of the Project, including construction contractor costs and 
consultant construction inspection.  In addition, Project Costs include any liability the Lead 
Agency incurs in prosecuting the Project and any claims adjusting, claims investigation, 
and costs incurred in defending claims (including reasonable attorney fees) brought by any 
contractor or third party for damages arising out of the prosecution of the Project.   
 
“Lead Agency” means the agency responsible for performance of tasks required to 
implement and complete construction of the Project, or a portion thereof, on behalf of all 
242 of 1111

--- page 243 ---
Page 3 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
Parties, including tasks such as obtaining and overseeing construction contractors and 
professional services.  The City of Burlingame shall be the Lead Agency for the Project. 
 
Section 2.  City of Burlingame 2025 Street Resurfacing Project 
 
Burlingame performs an annual Street Resurfacing Project on various roadways in need of 
repair or treatment. Humboldt Street (between Rollins Road and Peninsula Avenue) is 
scheduled for resurfacing during the 2025 Street Resurfacing Project and has been selected 
for a mill and overlay treatment with pavement section repairs. This portion of Humboldt 
Street between Rollins Road and Peninsula Avenue is half within the jurisdictional 
boundary of Burlingame and half within San Mateo. In addition, striping improvements 
will be made in conformance with Caltrans Standard Specifications and Standard Details.  
 
The improvements are shown on Exhibit “A”, and estimated costs associated with this 
construction are shown on Exhibit “B”. 
 
Section 3.   Party Responsibilities. 
 
 
A.  
As Lead Agency, Burlingame will prepare bid documents, conduct the 
public bidding process, award the contract for the Project, and cause the Project to be 
constructed, all in compliance with applicable law.  Burlingame will be the primary contact 
with the contractor who is awarded the contract, subject to San Mateo’s right to initiate 
change orders or other reasonable directives with respect to San Mateo’s line-specific 
work.  To the furthest extent permitted by law, Burlingame shall issue a categorical 
exemption for the Project pursuant to Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq. and California 
Code of Regulations, Title 14, Sections 15000 et seq. (collectively, “CEQA”).  Burlingame 
shall include, in its contract with the contractor on the Project, a requirement that the 
contractor include San Mateo, its officials, officers, employees and agents as additional 
insureds and indemnify, defend, and hold harmless San Mateo, its officials, officers, 
employees and agents from any liability, claims, demands, suits or actions which may be 
made by any person resulting from the Project. 
243 of 1111

--- page 244 ---
Page 4 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
 
 
B. 
San Mateo shall review the design documents, bid documents and contract 
to be awarded.  Upon opening of the bids, San Mateo may decline to participate in the 
Project if costs exceed San Mateo’s expectations and may terminate this Agreement, with  
five business days’ written notice to Burlingame.  In the event of termination, San Mateo 
shall be responsible for its Line-Specific Costs which were incurred prior to termination.  
This Agreement is subject to San Mateo obtaining authorization from its City Council for 
the expenditure shown in Section 4(C) below.  San Mateo shall issue any categorical 
exemption or other CEQA notice which San Mateo may determine to be required for its 
line-specific work in addition to the categorical exemption noted in Section 3(A).  
 
Section 4. 
Financial Participation  
 
A. 
The Burlingame and San Mateo shall each be responsible for the independent 
funding of its portion of the Project Costs.   
 
B. 
Each Party shall pay its own Line-Specific Costs, which are estimated in Exhibit B.  
In addition, Burlingame and San Mateo shall pay Shared Costs as identified in this 
Agreement and on Exhibit B.  However, Burlingame and San Mateo understand and agree 
that this is an estimate and total amounts will be unknown until the Project is completed.  
It is understood that the total sum to be reimbursed to Burlingame by San Mateo shall be 
determined from the Project Costs reasonably incurred by Burlingame to construct those 
certain improvements on behalf of San Mateo that do not exceed the Expenditure Limit 
approved by San Mateo’s Council.  
 
C. 
The estimated fiscal obligation for work performed under this Agreement by 
Burlingame on behalf of San Mateo is $150,000. (“Expenditure Limit”).  If San Mateo’s 
share of the Project Costs exceed the Expenditure Limit due to unforeseen conditions, San 
Mateo may seek further authorization from its Council for funding. 
 
244 of 1111

--- page 245 ---
Page 5 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
D. 
Either Party may make changes to its own line-specific work, provided that any 
additional costs incurred shall be solely borne by the Party making the change.   
 
E. 
No additional work or changes to San Mateo’s scope of work shall be done without 
prior written authorization from San Mateo. 
 
Section 5. 
Financial Commitments 
 
A. 
San Mateo shall pay to Burlingame the amounts calculated in accordance with 
Section 4 above.  Burlingame shall invoice San Mateo monthly for costs incurred during 
the calendar month preceding the invoice.   
 
B. 
Fund deposits and payments for costs incurred for the Project shall be made directly 
and without offset for any other financial obligations of the Parties.  
 
Section 6. 
Limitations 
 
This Agreement shall not affect the allocation of costs for treatment, capital improvements, 
or other services under any prior agreement.  The Parties shall continue to share costs for 
those services in accordance with the procedures set forth in prior agreements until they 
are amended or replaced. Except as modified herein, the terms of previous agreements shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
Section 7. 
Indemnification 
 
Each Party shall indemnify, defend and hold the other Party, its officials, officers, 
employees, agents, consultants and contractors free and harmless from any and all claims, 
demands, causes of action, costs, expenses, liabilities, losses, damages or injuries, in law 
or in equity, to property or persons, including wrongful death, in any manner arising out of 
or incident to any negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct of the indemnifying 
Party, its officials, officers, employees, agents, consultants or contractors in the 
245 of 1111

--- page 246 ---
Page 6 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
performance of the indemnifying Party’s obligations under this Agreement, including the 
payment of all reasonable attorneys’ fees. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto, by their duly authorized 
representatives, have affixed their hands on the day and year first above written. 
 
BURLINGAME: 
 
 
 
CITY OF BURLINGAME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
501 Primrose Road 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Burlingame, CA  94010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lisa K Goldman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City Manager 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
Meaghan Hassel-Shearer 
City Clerk 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
Michael Guina 
City Attorney 
 
 
 
246 of 1111

--- page 247 ---
Page 7 of 7 
 
City of Burlingame and City of San Mateo 
 
 
Cost Share Agreement –Humboldt Street Paving 
 
SAN MATEO: 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
San Mateo, CA  94010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alex Khojikian 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City Manager 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A – Plan Sheets 
Exhibit B – Cost Sharing Allocation 
247 of 1111

--- page 248 ---
ROLLINS ROAD
PENINSULA AVE
HUMBOLDT ST
CITY OF BURLINGAME
2025 STREET RESURFACING
PROGRAM
LEGEND
Total Length (L.F.):
STREET:
Avg. Width (FT.):
Total Area (S.F.):
From:
To:
TREATMENT:
1,640
28
55,006
2.0" MILL, 2.0" OVERLAY, 6" DIGOUT
HOWARD AVE
ROLLINS RD
HUMBOLDT ST
248 of 1111

--- page 249 ---
N
0
SCALE IN FEET
30
60
30
CITY OF BURLINGAME
2025 STREET RESURFACING
PROGRAM
LEGEND
Total Length (L.F.):
STREET:
Avg. Width (FT.):
Total Area (S.F.):
From:
To:
TREATMENT:
PENINSULA AVE
HUMBOLDT ST
ROLLINS ROAD
1,640
28
55,006
2.0" MILL, 2.0" OVERLAY, 6" DIGOUT
BAYSWATER AVE
HUMBOLDT ST
PENINSULA AVE
HUMBOLDT ST
249 of 1111

--- page 250 ---
Bid Item Description of Work
Unit Price
Unit
Quantity
Total Cost
San Mateo Cost
1
Mobilization and Demobilization@ 5%
7,807.59
$     
LS
1
7,808
$            
3,904
$                  
2
Traffic Control and Construction Signs
16,873.54
$   
LS
1
16,874
$          
8,437
$                  
3
Water Pollution Prevention Control
944.92
$        
LS
1
945
$               
472
$                     
4
6" A.C. Digout Repair
231.00
$        
Tons
27
6,237
$            
3,119
$                  
7
A.C. Overlay
140.00
$        
Tons
690
96,600
$          
48,300
$                
8
Cold Plane A.C.
110.00
$        
CY
340
37,400
$          
18,700
$                
9
Adjust Manholes & Utility Boxes to Grade
1,150.00
$     
Each
2
2,300
$            
1,150
$                  
10
Adjust & Replace Water Valve Boxes, 
Lampholes, Cleanouts, Monuments, Etc. to 
Grade
900.00
$        
Each
3
2,700
$            
1,350
$                  
11
Fire Hydrant Pavement Markers Blue
18.00
$          
Each
2
36
$                 
18
$                       
12
Thermoplastic - 24" Solid Line
18.00
$          
LF
270
4,860
$            
2,430
$                  
13
Thermoplastic - 12" Solid Line
10.00
$          
LF
96
960
$               
480
$                     
17
Thermoplastic Legends and Arrows
9.00
$            
SF
128
1,152
$            
576
$                     
18
Grind Thermoplastic/Paint and Pavement 
Markers
809.93
$        
LS
1
810
$               
405
$                     
21
Bike Proof Grates
1,300.00
$     
Each
4
5,200
$            
2,600
$                  
Total Construction Cost
183,881
$        
91,940
$                
Estimated Inspection Cost
15%
27,582.15
$     
13,791
$                
Estimated Staff Time and Testing
5%
9,194.05
$       
4,597
$                  
Construction Contingency
15%
27,582.15
$     
13,791
$                
Total Project Cost
 
248,000.00
$   
124,000
$              
1 Notes
Estimated Project Costs for Cost Sharing Agreement
Exhibit B
This estimate does not include the final total amount.  The total amounts will be unknown until the Project is completed.  It 
is understood that the total sum to be reimbursed to Burlingame by San Mateo shall be determined from the actual costs 
incurred by Burlingame to construct those certain improvements on behalf of San Mateo. 
250 of 1111

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 25-9972
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Fire, Life, and Safety Inspection Testing and Maintenance Services — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a five-year agreement with APi National 
Service Group, Inc. for inspection, testing, and maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety systems in the amount of 
$591,375; approve a contingency reserve of $60,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
In order to meet the latest Fire Safety Code requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standard 
adopted by the State of California, the City must have certified specialists perform regular inspections along with testing 
and maintenance of the wet fire sprinklers, fire pumps, and fire alarm systems at the 19 City facilities with systems that 
require these types of inspection and maintenance. 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve alternative purchasing 
procedures when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. Sourcewell (formerly National Joint Powers Association 
or NJPA) is a government organization that solicits, receives, and reviews competitive bids for numerous activities, 
including fire, life, and safety system inspection, testing, and maintenance services. Sourcewell has conducted competitive, 
public bids to select APi National Service Group, Inc., a parent company of Western States Fire Protection Company, for 
five (5) years of inspection, testing, and maintenance of City-owned wet fire sprinklers, fire pumps, and fire alarm systems. 
The fifth year of the contract will include the five-year recertification testing. Western States Fire Protection Company will 
perform all the work as an affiliate of APi National Service Group. APi National Service Group, Inc. is affiliated with the 
State of California General Service Administration (GSA), as well as Sourcewell. Sourcewell and GSA obtain bids for fire 
suppression system inspection and certification services based on unit cost per square foot. APi National Service Group, 
Inc. offers the lowest cost per square foot under its contract with Sourcewell. Relying on competitive bidding through 
Sourcewell allows the City to complete required public improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop 
project specifications and soliciting bids through a project-specific competitive process.  
Based on the above, staff recommends adopting a resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award an 
agreement to APi National Service Group, Inc. for inspection, testing, and maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety 
systems in the amount of $591,375. The agreement will consist of four (4) annual amounts of $112,411 and a fifth-year 
amount of $141,731. The fifth-year budget amount is greater than the other years in order to perform inspections and 
tests that were performed during 2024 and are only required every five years. A contingency of $60,000 is requested to 
address any potential additional inspection, testing, or maintenance needs that may arise through the term of the 
agreement.
251 of 1111

--- page 252 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for these services is budgeted annually in the Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund. Pending approval and 
adoption of the Fiscal Year 2025-26 operating budget, sufficient funding will be available to cover the cost of this 
agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of an agreement for inspection, testing, and maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety systems is exempt from 
CEQA review as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical 
features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Derek Bahamondes, Facilities Maintenance Supervisor
dbahamondes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7355
Steve Wu, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
252 of 1111

--- page 253 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD AN AGREEMENT FOR CITYWIDE FIRE, 
LIFE, AND SAFETY INSPECTION TESTING AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES TO API NATIONAL SERVICE GROUP, 
INC.
WHEREAS, the City must have certified specialists perform regular inspections along with testing and 
maintenance of the wet fire sprinklers, fire pumps, and fire alarm systems at City facilities In order to meet the 
latest Fire Safety Code requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standard adopted by the 
State of California; and
WHEREAS, the City owns 19 facilities with systems that require these types of inspection and 
maintenance; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding that it is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as National Joint Powers Association or NJPA) conducted a 
competitive bidding process and received qualified bids from companies affiliated with the National Fire 
Sprinkler Association and the International Facility Management Association; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to this competitive bidding process, Sourcewell has selected APi National Service 
Group, Inc. on behalf of member agencies; and
WHEREAS, use of Sourcewell’s selected vendor allows the City to complete required inspections and 
maintenance efficiently by eliminating the need to develop specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids 
through a project specific competitive bidding process; and
WHEREAS, APi National Service Group, Inc. offers the lowest cost per square foot under its contract with 
Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA).
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
Approval of an agreement with APi National Service Group, Inc. for inspection, testing, and 
maintenance of Citywide fire, life, and safety systems is exempt from CEQA review as an “existing 
facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or 
minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or 
topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), approval of an agreement with APi 
National Service Group, Inc. using Sourcewell is in the best interest of the City because:
a.
Sourcewell is a government organization that solicits, receives, and reviews competitive bids 
for numerous activities for government and education entities;  
b.
Sourcewell has conducted competitive bidding to receive qualified bids from companies 
affiliated with the National Fire Sprinkler Association and the International Facility 
Management Association;
c.
Sourcewell has selected Api National Service Group, Inc. on behalf of member agencies;
253 of 1111

--- page 254 ---
d.
Using Sourcewell’s competitive bid process allows the City to complete to efficiently 
complete required inspections and maintenance efficiently by eliminating the need to 
develop specifications for solicitation while ensuring a competitive price; and
e.
Api National Service Group, Inc. offers the lowest cost per square foot under its Sourcewell 
managed contract.
3.
A five-year agreement with APi National Service Group, Inc. for Citywide Fire, Life, and Safety 
Inspection Testing and Maintenance Services in the amount of $591,375 is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
254 of 1111

--- page 255 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 1 of 18
Rev. 9/22
AGREEMENT WITH API NATIONAL SERVICE GROUP, INC.
FOR INSPECTION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE SERVICE 
FOR CITYWIDE FIRE, LIFE AND SAFETY SYSTEMS
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of _________________________, by and between the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and APi National Service Group, Inc., a Corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 4740 
Northgate Blvd., Suite #150, Sacramento, CA 95834.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain fire, life and safety systems inspection, testing and 
maintenance services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these fire, life and safety 
systems inspection, testing and maintenance services by reason of its qualifications and experience for 
performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws. 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
255 of 1111

--- page 256 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 2 of 18
Rev. 9/22
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2025 and be 
completed on June 30, 2030.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount not 
to exceed $591,375, a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by 
reference.
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
256 of 1111

--- page 257 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 3 of 18
Rev. 9/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
257 of 1111

--- page 258 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 4 of 18
Rev. 9/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
258 of 1111

--- page 259 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 5 of 18
Rev. 9/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Derek Bahamondes, Bldg. Maint. Sup.
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Boulevard
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
APi National Service Group, Inc.
Attn: Sam Sawtelle
1100 Old Highway 8 NW
New Brighton, MN 55112
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
259 of 1111

--- page 260 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 6 of 18
Rev. 9/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and APi National Service Group, Inc. have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry, PE
Public Works Director
Date
Christian Cutter Tyllia
Its Authorized Agent
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Payment Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements 
260 of 1111

--- page 261 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 7 of 18
Rev. 9/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
FIRE SPRINKLER INSPECTIONS
261 of 1111

--- page 262 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 8 of 18
Rev. 9/22
262 of 1111

--- page 263 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 9 of 18
Rev. 9/22
FIRE ALARM INSPECTIONS
263 of 1111

--- page 264 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 10 of 18
Rev. 9/22
264 of 1111

--- page 265 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 11 of 18
Rev. 9/22
265 of 1111

--- page 266 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 12 of 18
Rev. 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
266 of 1111

--- page 267 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 13 of 18
Rev. 9/22
267 of 1111

--- page 268 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 14 of 18
Rev. 9/22
268 of 1111

--- page 269 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 15 of 18
Rev. 9/22
269 of 1111

--- page 270 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 16 of 18
Rev. 9/22
270 of 1111

--- page 271 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 17 of 18
Rev. 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
271 of 1111

--- page 272 ---
Contract for Services with SB854
Page 18 of 18
Rev. 9/22
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
272 of 1111

--- page 273 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 25-9973
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Building Access Control System Maintenance – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award an agreement to Edgeworth Integration, LLC, 
DBA VAS Security Systems for Building Access Control System Maintenance in the amount of $120,000; establish a 
contingency in the amount of $12,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially 
the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
In 2019, the City engaged Edgeworth Integration, LLC, DBA VAS Security Systems, Inc. (Edgeworth) to furnish and install an 
upgrade to the City-wide building access control system through a Request for Proposal (RFP) process which featured 
thirteen prospective firms.  
The City selected Avigilon as its access control system, a proprietary system that can only be provided and serviced by 
Edgeworth, who has been responsible for its maintenance since installation in 2020. In May 2025, the City requested a 
proposal from Edgeworth for general maintenance services over the next five years. This proposal includes hardware and 
software repairs, onsite and online technical support, and firmware upgrades. Based on comparable maintenance 
programs for similar equipment across the City, the proposed cost of $120,000 for the five-year period is considered 
reasonable and fair.
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing procedure 
when calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. In this case, staff recommends awarding the building 
access control system maintenance agreement to Edgeworth because they are the only qualified vendor to perform these 
services on the specific equipment. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for building access control system maintenance is budgeted annually in the Facilities Maintenance operating 
budget. Pending approval of the Fiscal Year 2025-26 budget, sufficient funding will be available to cover the cost of this 
agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change 
in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
273 of 1111

--- page 274 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Derek Bahamondes, Facilities Maintenance Supervisor
dbahamondes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7355
Steve Wu, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
274 of 1111

--- page 275 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD AN AGREEMENT FOR BUILDING ACCESS 
CONTROL SYSTEM MAINTENANCE WITH EDGEWORTH INTEGRATION, LLC DBA VAS SECURITY SYSTEMS IN THE 
AMOUNT OF $120,000
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo currently operates a building access control system that is proprietary 
to Edgeworth Integration, LLC DBA Vas Security Systems (Edgeworth); and
WHEREAS, the City has contracted with Edgeworth for building access control system maintenance 
services since 2020 and the term of the current building access control system maintenance services agreement 
expires on June 30, 2025; and
WHEREAS, in May 2025, staff requested a proposal from Edgeworth; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) authorizes the City Council to approve an 
alternative purchasing procedure where calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible; and 
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends award of an agreement to Edgeworth in 
the amount of $120,000 for building access control system maintenance services.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
Adoption of this resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to award an agreement to 
Edgeworth Integration, LLC DBA Vas Security Systems is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that building access control system maintenance services 
may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).) 
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids is 
impracticable, unavailing, or impossible because the current control system equipment is 
proprietary and can only be provided and serviced by Edgeworth Integration, LLC DBA Vas 
Security Systems.
3.
The award of a custodial services agreement to Edgeworth Integration, LLC DBA Vas Security Systems in 
the amount of $120,000, with a contingency reserve in the amount of $12,000, is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
275 of 1111

--- page 276 ---
AGREEMENT WITH EDGEWORTH INTEGRATION, LLC DBA VAS SECURITY SYSTEMS
FOR BUILDING ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM MAINTENANCE SERVICES
FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of 
California ("CITY"), and Edgeworth Integration, LLC DBA VAS Security Systems, Inc., a Limited 
Liability Company ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 1257 Quarry Lane #125, Pleasanton, CA 
94566.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain building access control system maintenance services hereinafter 
described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these building access control system 
maintenance services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set 
forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as 
described in Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to 
perform the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, 
or engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and 
qualified to perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work 
performed for the City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the 
prevailing wage rate as determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this 
276 of 1111

--- page 277 ---
locality.  This project is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of 
Industrial Relations.  CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as 
codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes 
a Consumer Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2025 and be 
completed on June 30, 2030.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for 
the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in 
an amount not to exceed $120,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and 
incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall 
have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten 
(10) days' written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this 
Agreement upon receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and 
shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance 
of this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not 
make any such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed 
by CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
277 of 1111

--- page 278 ---
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this 
Agreement, CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means 
by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an 
agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for 
those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to 
defend City of San Mateo and its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against 
any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination 
of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance 
specified in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of 
CONTRACTOR and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the 
prior written consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR 
is skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY 
relies upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY 
does not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
278 of 1111

--- page 279 ---
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of 
this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of 
such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either 
party of any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a 
waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition 
of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial 
court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or 
actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of 
its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, 
national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless 
based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and 
Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted 
to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected 
by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by 
the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
279 of 1111

--- page 280 ---
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, 
or is based upon CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation 
for testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Attn: Derek Bahamondes, Facilities 
Maintenance Supervisor
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
Edgeworth Integration, LLC
Attn:  Christopher Rogers
1257 Quarry Lane #125
Pleasanton, CA 94566
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either 
written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
280 of 1111

--- page 281 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove 
named, as of the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Ken Young
Its Authorized Agent
CEO
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
281 of 1111

--- page 282 ---
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Scope of Work for Access Control System Maintenance
1. Objective
The primary objective of this maintenance agreement is to ensure all access control 
systems installed throughout City of San Mateo facilities remain in optimal working 
condition. This includes routine inspections, prompt repairs, and adherence to all 
applicable codes and policies. The goal is to safeguard public and employee access, ensure 
physical security, and maintain operational continuity across all applicable facilities.
2. Buildings Covered
This agreement applies to all City-owned or City-managed buildings requiring access 
control systems. These include, but are not limited to:
•
City Hall
•
San Mateo Police Department Headquarters
•
Public Works Department Facilities and Warehouses
•
Community Centers (e.g., King Center, Martin Luther King Jr. Center)
o
Martin Luther King Jr. Center
o
Beresford Center
o
Lakeshore Center
o
Shoreview Center
•
City Libraries:
o
Main Library
o
Marina Branch
o
Hillsdale Branch
•
Satellite and Administrative Facilities
o
City-operated office annexes
o
Storage and vehicle maintenance yards
Note: The San Mateo Wastewater Facility is explicitly excluded from this scope.
3. System Components Covered
The scope of work includes maintenance, troubleshooting, and replacement services 
for all hardware and software components that form part of the access control 
infrastructure. This includes:
•
Access Devices
o
Card readers (proximity, contactless, or biometric where applicable)
o
Keypad entry systems (if integrated with access control)
•
Door Hardware & Controls
o
Electriﬁed strikes and magnetic locks
o
Door controllers
o
Emergency override and egress systems
o
Auto-closers (only if integrated into access systems)
•
Control Infrastructure
o
Access control panels
282 of 1111

--- page 283 ---
o
Power supplies and backup batteries
o
Interface modules and data cables
o
Network-based access servers and control software (if under 
maintenance contract)
4. Services Included
4.1 Preventive Maintenance (Quarterly)
The vendor will perform proactive inspections and testing on a quarterly basis, 
including but not limited to:
•
Comprehensive inspection of all installed access hardware
•
Testing of entry and exit mechanisms under normal and emergency conditions
•
Functionality testing of fail-safe and fail-secure mechanisms, particularly on doors 
serving high-traffic public areas (e.g., libraries, recreation centers)
•
Documentation of system status and any issues identiﬁed, especially at recreation 
facilities and centers that host children, seniors, or large community gatherings
•
Clean, calibrate, and adjust devices as needed to maintain performance and longevity
4.2 Corrective Maintenance (As-Needed / On-Call Basis)
•
Diagnose issues with malfunctioning equipment reported by City personnel or 
discovered during inspections
•
Notify designated contacts at Edgeworth Integration for quotation and repair 
scheduling
•
Provide labor and replacement quotes at reduced, pre-negotiated service rates
•
Repairs include, but are not limited to:
o
Damaged, non-responsive, or vandalized badge/card readers
o
Faulty electric door strikes or locking mechanisms
o
Access control panel errors, software lockouts, or server issues
o
Power supplies, wiring failures, or low-voltage component failures
5. Hours of Operation
•
Standard Maintenance Hours:
Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM (non-holiday business hours)
•
Emergency Support Availability:
24 hours a day, 7 days a week for access control failures impacting:
o
Public-facing facilities (e.g., Libraries, Community Centers)
o
Safety-critical operations (e.g., Police Department, recreation centers 
serving youth or seniors)
o
Emergency ingress/egress routes or ADA-compliant pathways
• Exclusions
The following are excluded from this scope of work unless otherwise agreed upon:
•
Maintenance of access systems at the San Mateo Wastewater Facility
•
Network infrastructure that is not directly related to the access control 
system (e.g., unrelated servers, routers)
283 of 1111

--- page 284 ---
•
Building management systems or HVAC automation systems not connected to or 
reliant on access control interface
•
Upgrades or expansions to access control systems unless included in a separate 
contract
Edgeworth Integration will provide the quoted equipment, installation, and/or services.
Four trips per year to test all access control equipment; check and replace all panel 
batteries as needed; check all doors to correct functions; check readers at all locations.
284 of 1111

--- page 285 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 1 of 1
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
285 of 1111

--- page 286 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 2 of 1
Rev 9/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit.
2.
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3.
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising 
out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts 
or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage 
can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad 
as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with 
it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given 
to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of 
said Contractor may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not 
the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The 
City may require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or 
286 of 1111

--- page 287 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 3 of 1
Rev 9/22
provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and 
defense expenses within the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning 
shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to 
require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements 
required by these specifications, at any time. 
287 of 1111

--- page 288 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 20
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9974
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Chemicals — Purchase Contracts Award
RECOMMENDATION:
Award purchase contracts of chemical supplies necessary for Wastewater Treatment Plant operations to the following 
chemical suppliers: 1) Univar Solutions USA LLC to supply sodium hypochlorite in the amount of $1,455,820.00; sodium 
bisulfite in the amount of $285,134.63; sodium hydroxide in the amount of $457,985.51; and citric acid in the amount of 
$55,689.50; 2) Pencco, Inc. to supply ferric chloride in the amount of $496,272.38;  and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the contracts in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) uses chemicals to treat wastewater in accordance with applicable regulatory 
requirements. The five chemicals addressed in this report are sodium hypochlorite, sodium bisulfite, sodium hydroxide, 
citric acid, and ferric chloride. The City is a member of the Bay Area Clean Water Agencies’ (BACWA) Bay Area Chemical 
Consortium (BACC), which conducts a competitive bidding process for its member agencies annually.
In past years, the BACC competitive bidding process resulted in several chemical suppliers being identified as the lowest 
responsive bidders. This year, the bidding process resulted in Univar Solutions USA LLC (Univar) as the lowest responsive 
bidder for four of the five chemicals, which include sodium hypochlorite, sodium bisulfite, sodium hydroxide, and citric 
acid.  For the fifth chemical, ferric chloride, Pennco, Inc. was determined to be the lowest responsive bidder. The 
paragraphs below describe the chemical uses, bidding results, and staff recommended contractor and contract amounts. 
The terms of all contracts are 12 months, and the prices are firm for the entire period.
Sodium Hypochlorite
The WWTP utilizes sodium hypochlorite as an oxidizing agent in the disinfection process. Disinfection is a requirement of 
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. This contract is to supply and deliver 400,000 gallons 
of this product. The BACC bid result for sodium hypochlorite is summarized below:
Contractor
Bid Amount (per gallon)
Contract Amount
Recommendation
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
$3.32 + 9.625% Tax
$1,455,820.00
Staff recommended
Olin Corporation
$3.35 + 9.625% Tax
$1,468,975.00
Sodium Bisulfite
The WWTP utilizes sodium bisulfite as a reducing agent in the dechlorination process prior to discharging effluent to the 
San Francisco Bay. The dechlorination process is a requirement of the NPDES permit. This contract is to supply and deliver 
180,000 gallons of this product. The BACC bid result for sodium bisulfite is summarized below: 
288 of 1111

--- page 289 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Contractor
Bid Amount (per gallon) Contract Amount
Recommendation
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
$1.445 + 9.625% Tax
$285,134.63
Staff recommended
Thatcher Company of California, Inc.
$2.090 + 9.625% Tax
$412,409.25
Sodium Hydroxide
The WWTP utilizes sodium hydroxide to adjust the alkalinity of wastewater in biological nutrient removal and for pH 
adjustment in the BioActiflo process. This contract provides for supply and delivery of 450 dry tons of this product. The 
BACC bid result for sodium hydroxide is summarized below:
Contractor
Bid Amount (per dry ton)
Contract Amount
Recommendation
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
$850.78 + 9.625% Tax
$457,985.51
Staff recommended
Brenntag Pacific, Inc.
$859.92 + 9.625% Tax
$462,905.69
Citric Acid
The WWTP utilizes citric acid as a cleaning agent for membrane fouling in the membrane bioreactor process. This contract 
provides for supply and delivery of 8,000 gallons of this product. The BACC bid result for citric acid is summarized below:
Contractor
Bid Amount (per gallon)
Contract Amount
Recommendation
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
$6.35 + 9.625% Tax
$55,689.50
Staff recommended
Northstar Chemical dba Pacific Star 
$6.50 + 9.625% Tax
$57,005.00
Brenntag Pacific, Inc.
$8.70 + 9.625% Tax
$76,299.00
CHEMRITE, Incorporated
$10.01 + 9.625% Tax
$87,787.70
Ferric Chloride
The WWTP utilizes ferric chloride for the control of hydrogen sulfide, a flammable gas produced in the anaerobic digestion 
process. Managing the sulfur content of combusted digester gas is a requirement of the Bay Area Air District permit. This 
contract includes the supply and delivery of an estimated 300 dry tons of product. The BACC bid result for ferric chloride is 
summarized below:
Contractor
Bid Amount (per dry ton)
Contract Amount
Recommendation
Pencco, Inc.
$1,509 + 9.625% Tax
$496,272.38
Staff recommended
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc.
$1,548 + 9.625% Tax
$509,098.50
Summary
Contractor
Chemical
Contract Amount
Sodium Hypochlorite
$1,455,820.00
Sodium Bisulfite
$285,134.63
Sodium Hydroxide
$457,985.51
Univar Solution USA LLC
Citric Acid
$55,689.50
Pennco, Inc.
Ferric Chloride
$496,272.38
TOTALS
$2,750,902.02
BUDGET IMPACT:
289 of 1111

--- page 290 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Funding for the supply of chemicals is budgeted annually in the WWTP operating budget. Due to existing fluctuations in 
chemical needs, which can be weather dependent, as well as the unknown impact on chemical usage with the addition of 
the new WWTP facility, the quantity of each chemical has been estimated on the high end of the total potential needs 
anticipated by the designers of the new facility. Staff will monitor chemical usage under these contracts and funding 
availability and return to Council as needed if additional funding is needed exceeding the available budget.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The purchase of various chemicals to enable the treatment of wastewater at the City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant is not 
a project subject to CEQA, because it is a continuing maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Univar Purchase Contract for Sodium Hypochlorite                  
Att 2 – BACWA-BACC-Award-Letter-13-2025-Univar
Att 3 – Univar Purchase Contract for Sodium Bisulfite
Att 4 – BACWA-BACC-Award-Letter-11-2025-Univar
Att 5 – Univar Purchase Contract for Sodium Hydroxide
Att 6 - BACWA-BACC-Award-Letter-12-2025-Univar
Att 7 – Univar Purchase Contract for Citric Acid
Att 8 – BACWA-BACC-Award-Letter-05-2025-Univar
Att 9 – Pencco Purchase Contract for Ferric Chloride
Att 10 – BACWA-BACC-Award-Letter-06-2025-Pencco
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Robert Knox, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent
rknox@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7376
290 of 1111

--- page 291 ---
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 
FROM UNIVAR SOLUTIONS USA LLC
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this day of 
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CITY” ,  a n d  U n i v a r  S o l u t i o n s  U S A  L L C . , a corporation, with offices at 8201 
S. 212th, Kent, WA 98032, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
400,000 GALLONS OF SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to the sum not to exceed $1,455,820.00 (One million four hundred 
fifty-five thousand eight hundred twenty dollars and no cents), priced at $3.32 per 
gallon of Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5%, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 13-2025, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5%, 
In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set 
forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid 
for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for 
291 of 1111

--- page 292 ---
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if 
mentioned in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will 
hereinafter be referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or 
discrepancy between any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract 
documents, this Contract shall prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2025, 
and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant 
Manager’s designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
292 of 1111

--- page 293 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City 
of San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will generally be prescheduled to provide 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER 
must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires 
delivery within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. 
In the event SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other 
scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative 
source, all additional CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who 
agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately upon demand.
Once an order is placed and confirmation received, the delivery will be accepted at the 
CITY's Water Quality Control Plant 24 hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have cam and groove couplings; 
exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall conform to 
I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be rejected without the 
following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Sodium Hypochlorite
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
293 of 1111

--- page 294 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY. 
By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective 
goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s 
rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. SUPPLIER shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data Sheet) 
with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will result in rejection 
of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY 
also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a 
hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly 
adhered to.
15.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended methods 
for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any recommended 
absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended tests to be 
performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These instructions will 
be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel in cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in 
pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, encompassing a 
minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the transport 
of Sodium Hypochlorite.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 
5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice of their intention to 
take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem 
advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY 
for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability 
for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
294 of 1111

--- page 295 ---
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
295 of 1111

--- page 296 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
296 of 1111

--- page 297 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
297 of 1111

--- page 298 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
298 of 1111

--- page 299 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by 
the parties herein above    named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Joe Serna
Vice President
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
                  
299 of 1111

--- page 300 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco
March 17, 2025 
Univar Solutions USA LLC 
ATTN Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 89032 
RE: Regional Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 13-
2025 for Supply and Delivery of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% in the Central Valley, East Bay, 
Marin Sonoma Napa, North Bay, Peninsula, South Bay and Tri Valley regions. 
Dear Ms. Perras, 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA LLC. for Bid No. 
13-2025 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% in the Central Valley, East Bay, Marin Sonoma Napa, North Bay, Peninsula, 
South Bay and Tri Valley regions during the period July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026.  
The participating BACC Agencies from the above regions should be contacting you shortly to 
discuss entering into contracts with Univar Solutions USA LLC. for their respective facilities.  
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
Sincerely, 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
300 of 1111

--- page 301 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 13-2025 SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
Bid Due on February 20, 2025  4:00 PM (PDT)
REGIONAL BID AWARD
Section
Sodium Hypochlorite 
12.5% In Carboys 
(OPTIONAL BID ITEM)
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
5.25% (Optional 
bid item)
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
Central Valley
North Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
3.2900
3.2700
3.2900
3.2500
3.3200
3.4100
3.2900
3.3100 no bid
no bid
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% In 
275-gal totes (Optional bid item)
301 of 1111

--- page 302 ---
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY OF SODIUM BISULFITE
FROM UNIVAR SOLUTIONS USA LLC
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
               , by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to 
as "CITY", and U n i v a r  S o l u t i o n s  U S A  L L C . , a corporation, with offices at 
8201 S. 212th, Kent, WA 98032, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
R E C I T A L S:
(A) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of 
goods hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the contract for 
the purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work.
SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF 
UP TO 180,000 GALLONS OF SODIUM BISULFITE 25% SOLUTION.
2.
Contract Price.  CITY shall pay, the SUPPLIER shall accept in full, payment for 
the work above, agreed to the sum not to exceed $285,134.63 (two hundred eighty-five 
thousand one hundred thirty-four dollars and sixty-three cents), priced at $1.445 per gallon of 
Sodium Bisulfite 25% solution, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 11-2025, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Bisulfite 25% 
Solution. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of 
those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following 
documents: This Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described 
in the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called 
for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if 
mentioned in all said documents.  The documents comprising the complete Contract will 
hereinafter be referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or 
discrepancy between any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract 
documents, this Contract shall prevail.
302 of 1111

--- page 303 ---
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by 
the CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 
60 days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall 
stop performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, 
SUPPLIER shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and 
accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one-year contract and will cover the period between July 1, 
2025, and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall 
furnish the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, 
Certified Analysis indicating SODIUM BISULFITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and 
any applicable regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality 
Control Plant Manager's designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the 
material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each 
delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant, 2050 
Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which 
in any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment 
used by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, 
and all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over 
the same. If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, 
regulation, order or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. 
SUPPLIER shall at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended 
laws, ordinances, regulations and orders.
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis 
in the event of an emergency or unusual operating condition.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery.  SODIUM BISULFITE will be furnished F.O.B.  Destination City of 
303 of 1111

--- page 304 ---
San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a 
toll-free telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of SODIUM BISULFITE will generally be prescheduled to provide the 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but the 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires delivery 
within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event 
SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other scheduled delivery 
timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source, all additional 
CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs 
and charges immediately upon demand.
Once a n  order is placed and confirmation received, the delivery will be accepted at 
the CITY's Water Quality Control Plant 24 hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide 
all unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings 
for coupling to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have cam and 
groove couplings; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers 
used shall conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection.  All shipments of SODIUM BISULFITE will be rejected without the 
following:
a) Bill of Lading
b) Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100% Sodium 
Bisulfite
c) Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d) Applicable regulatory documents
304 of 1111

--- page 305 ---
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt 
by the CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have 
accepted any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to 
have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-
c o n f o r m a n c e . SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return 
of any defective goods. Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data 
Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will 
result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in 
electronic format. The CITY also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the 
product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal 
requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
15.
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include 
any recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and 
recommended tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the 
neutralization. These instructions will be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel in 
cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, 
encompassing a minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water 
Quality Control Plant concerning manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and 
use of the chemicals being provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs 
associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Sodium Bisulfite.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, 
CITY shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, 
and the sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the Contract,  provided, however, 
that if the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give 
CITY written notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after 
notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to 
completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, for  the account, and at 
the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or 
damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so 
doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods, such 
materials, appliances, plant and  other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site 
of the work and necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
305 of 1111

--- page 306 ---
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products- 
completed operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than
$2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2.
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), 
or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 
9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property 
damage.
3.
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury or disease.
4.
Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or 
Errors & Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less 
than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy 
period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto 
policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on 
behalf of the SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or 
equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage 
can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the SUPPLIER’s insurance (at least as 
broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this Contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- 
insurance maintained by the CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall 
be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
306 of 1111

--- page 307 ---
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to 
the CITY.
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect 
this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the 
CITY. The CITY may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations,  claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before 
work commences or performance of the Contract commences. However, failure to obtain the 
required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to 
provide them. The CITY reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be  new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material 
and workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications 
furnished; in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, 
and free of any liens and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude 
SUPPLIER’s standard warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or 
obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials,  employees,  and   agents  from  and  against   any   and   all  claims,   loss,
307 of 1111

--- page 308 ---
liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this  Contract, including claims, 
loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of 
City of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply  to claims, 
loss, liability, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City 
of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San 
Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims.
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or 
all of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the 
CITY by law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s 
failure or refusal to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any 
shipment or delivery containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or 
replacement at SUPPLIER’s option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) 
cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s 
repudiation of this contract. In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive 
remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for goods 
shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or 
assign any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a 
cost bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. 
The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or 
actions. It is the intent that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more 
than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions 
of this Contract. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and that  any differences 
will be  resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it 
be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. 
The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of a contract, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration 
Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon 
service. The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The 
mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until contract 
is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended 
by the parties.
308 of 1111

--- page 309 ---
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby 
or attached thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all 
respects be construed and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue 
will be in the County of San Mateo.
25.
Provisions   Cumulative.
The  provisions   of  this  contract   are  cumulative,   and  
in addition to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
26.
Notices.
All notices  shall  be in  writing,  and  delivered  in person  or transmitted 
by certified mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th 
Avenue San Mateo, 
CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in 
the signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation.  As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the 
singular includes the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
SUPPLIER and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either 
written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
SUPPLIER.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
309 of 1111

--- page 310 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this contract has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Joe Serna
Vice President
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
310 of 1111

--- page 311 ---
311 of 1111

--- page 312 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco
March 17, 2025 
Univar Solutions USA LLC. 
Attn: Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 98032 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 11-2025 for 
Supply and Delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE. 
Dear Ms. Perras, 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
for Bid No. 11-2025 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
SODIUM BISULFITE during the period July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026. 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Univar Solutions USA Inc. for their respective facilities.  
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
Sincerely, 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
312 of 1111

--- page 313 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 11-2025 SODIUM BISULFITE
Bid Due on February 20, 2025  4:00 PM (PDT)
SINGLE BID AWARD
Section
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Central Valley
East Bay 
Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
1.4450
1.4450
1.4450
1.4450
1.4450
1.4450
1.4450
2.8450
5.3450
2.6450
Sodium Bisulfite 25%
SODIUM BISULFITE 40% Solution
313 of 1111

--- page 314 ---
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F SODIUM HYDROXIDE 
FROM UNIVAR SOLUTIONS USA LLC
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CIT Y ” ,  a n d  U n i v a r  S o l u t i o n s  U S A  L L C . ,  a corporation, with offices at 
8201 S. 212th, Kent, WA 98032, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
450 DRY TONS OF SODIUM HYDROXIDE 25%.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above, agreed to the sum of not to exceed $457,985.51 (four hundred fifty-seven 
thousand nine hundred eighty-five dollars and fifty-one cents), priced at $850.78 per 
dry ton of Sodium Hydroxide 25%, and inclusive of 10% import duty and 9.625% 
sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 12-2025, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Hydroxide 25% 
Solution. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of 
those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
314 of 1111

--- page 315 ---
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for in 
one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned in all 
said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be referred to 
as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any portion of 
this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2025, 
and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating SODIUM HYDROXIDE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant Manager's 
designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
SODIUM HYDROXIDE t o  the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
315 of 1111

--- page 316 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. SODIUM HYDROXIDE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City of 
San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., Seller/SUPPLIER 
pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). Deliveries will be 
made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of S O D I U M  H Y D R O X I D E  w i l l  generally be prescheduled to 
provide SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires delivery 
within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event 
SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other scheduled delivery 
timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source, all additional 
CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs 
and charges immediately upon demand.
Once an order is placed and confirmation received, delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Water Quality Control Plant 24 hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of SODIUM HYDROXIDE will be rejected without the 
following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Sodium Hydroxide
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
316 of 1111

--- page 317 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY. 
By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective 
goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s 
rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. SUPPLIER shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data Sheet) 
with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will result in rejection 
of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY 
also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a 
hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly 
adhered to.
15.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended methods 
for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any recommended 
absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended tests to be 
performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These instructions will 
be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel in cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in 
pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, encompassing a 
minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the transport 
of SODIUM HYDROXIDE.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 
5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice of their intention to 
take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem 
advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY 
for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability 
for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
317 of 1111

--- page 318 ---
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
318 of 1111

--- page 319 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
319 of 1111

--- page 320 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
320 of 1111

--- page 321 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
321 of 1111

--- page 322 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by 
the parties herein above    named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Joe Serna
Vice President
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
                      
322 of 1111

--- page 323 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
March 17, 2025 
 
Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
Attn: Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 98032 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 12-2025 for 
Supply and Delivery of Sodium Hydroxide 20% Sacramento; Sodium Hydroxide 25% Peninsula, 
Sacramento, Tri Valley; Sodium Hydroxide 30% North Bay, Sacramento; Sodium Hydroxide 50%  
East Bay, North Bay, Sacramento, Tri Valley regions. 
 
Dear Ms. Perras, 
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA Inc. for Bid No. 12-
2025 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of Sodium 
Hydroxide 20% Sacramento; Sodium Hydroxide 25% Peninsula, Sacramento, Tri Valley; Sodium 
Hydroxide 30% North Bay, Sacramento; Sodium Hydroxide 50%  East Bay, North Bay, Sacramento, 
Tri Valley regions  during the period July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026.  
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Univar Solutions USA Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
323 of 1111

--- page 324 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 12-2025 SODIUM HYDROXIDE
Bid Due on February 20, 2025  4:00 PM (PDT)
REGIONAL BID AWARD
Section
Description
Marin Sonoma NaSacramento
Central Valley
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Sacramento
South Bay
Central Valley East Bay
Marin 
Sonoma Napa North Bay
Sacramento
Tri Valley
Unit of Measure
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
1,360.3400
884.9700
1,076.0500
846.8900
850.7800
881.9400
1,120.7300
829.7800
1,360.3400
812.5200
847.4100 n/a
683.8100
685.9500
764.7900
666.4700
720.5100
681.7800
SODIUM HYDROXIDE 30% (Caustic)
SODIUM HYDROXIDE 50% (Caustic)
SODIUM HYDROXIDE 20% (Caustic) 
SODIUM HYDROXIDE 25% (Caustic)
324 of 1111

--- page 325 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F CITRIC ACID FROM 
UNIVAR SOLUTIONS USA LLC
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CIT Y ” ,  U n i v a r  S o l u t i o n s  U S A  L L C ,  a corporation, with offices at 8201 S. 
212th, Kent, WA 98032, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
8,000 GALLONS OF Citric Acid 50 %.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above, agreed to the sum not to exceed $55,689.50 (fifty-five thousand six hundred 
eighty-nine dollars and fifty cents), priced at $6.35 per gallon of Citric Acid 50%, and 
inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 05-2025, Supply and Delivery of Citric Acid 50%, a n d  shall 
be paid as described in this Contract. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in 
addition to or a reduction of those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, 
such work and materials will be paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
325 of 1111

--- page 326 ---
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2025, 
and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating Citric Acid, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable regulatory 
documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant Manager's designee 
at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract unit 
prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
Citric Acid to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
326 of 1111

--- page 327 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. Citric Acid will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City of San Mateo Water 
Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight 
charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). Deliveries will be made in 3,000-
gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of C i t r i c  A c i d  will generally be prescheduled to provide SUPPLIER 
with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER must have 
the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires delivery 
within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event 
SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other scheduled delivery 
timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source, all 
additional CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay 
the costs and charges immediately upon demand.
Once an order is placed and confirmation received, the delivery will be accepted at the 
CITY's Water Quality Control Plant 24 hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of Citric Acid will be rejected without the following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Citric Acid
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
327 of 1111

--- page 328 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY. 
By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective 
goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s 
rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. SUPPLIER shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data Sheet) 
with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will result in rejection 
of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY 
also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a 
hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly 
adhered to.
15.
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended methods 
for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any recommended 
absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended tests to be 
performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These instructions will 
be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel in cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in 
pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, encompassing a 
minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the transport 
of Citric Acid.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 
5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice of their intention to 
take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem 
advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY 
for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability 
for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
328 of 1111

--- page 329 ---
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
329 of 1111

--- page 330 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
330 of 1111

--- page 331 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
331 of 1111

--- page 332 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
332 of 1111

--- page 333 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by 
the parties herein above    named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Joe Serna
Vice President
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
333 of 1111

--- page 334 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
March 17, 2025 
 
Univar Solutions USA LLC 
Attn: Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 98032 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 05-2025 for 
Supply and Delivery of CITRIC ACID. 
 
Dear Ms. Perras,  
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
for Bid No. 05-2025 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
CITRIC ACID during the period July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Univar Solutions USA Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
334 of 1111

--- page 335 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 05-2025 CITRIC ACID
Bid Due on February 20, 2025 4:00 PM (PDT)
SINGLE BID AWARD
Section
CITRIC ACID dry material
Description
Marin Sonoma Napa North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
Tri Valley
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
lb
Univar Solutions USA LLC.
9.4500
7.7000
6.3500
10.4500
1.2000
CITRIC ACID 48%-52% Liquid
335 of 1111

--- page 336 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F FERRIC CHLORIDE FROM 
PENCCO, INC.
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CITY”, PENCCO, INC., a corporation, with offices at 831 Bartlett Road, Sealy, TX 
77474, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF up to 
300 DRY TONS OF 38-42% FERRIC CHLORIDE.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to, the sum of not to exceed $496,272.38 (four hundred ninety-six 
thousand two hundred seventy-two dollars and thirty-eight cents), priced at $1509 per 
dry ton of 38-42% Ferric Chloride, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 06-2025, Supply and Delivery of Ferric Chloride 38-42%. In 
the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth 
in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as 
described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
336 of 1111

--- page 337 ---
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2025, 
and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified 
Analysis indicating FERRIC CHLORIDE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant 
Manager designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
FERIC CHLORIDE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
337 of 1111

--- page 338 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. FERRIC CHLORIDE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City of San 
Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of FERRIC CHLORIDE will generally be prescheduled to provide 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER 
must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires delivery 
within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event 
SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other scheduled delivery 
timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source, all additional 
CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs 
and charges immediately upon demand.
Once an order is placed and confirmation received, the delivery will be accepted at the 
CITY's Wat e r  Q u a l i t y  C o n t r o l  Plant 24 hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of FERRIC CHLORIDE will be rejected without the following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Ferric Chloride
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
338 of 1111

--- page 339 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY. 
By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective 
goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s 
rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. SUPPLIER shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data Sheet) 
with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will result in rejection 
of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY 
also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a 
hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly 
adhered to.
15.
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended methods 
for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any recommended 
absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended tests to be 
performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These instructions will 
be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in 
pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, encompassing a 
minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the transport 
of FERRIC CHLORIDE.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 
5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice of their intention to 
take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem 
advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY 
for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability 
for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
339 of 1111

--- page 340 ---
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
340 of 1111

--- page 341 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
341 of 1111

--- page 342 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
342 of 1111

--- page 343 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
343 of 1111

--- page 344 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by 
the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Sarah Duffy
Bid Director
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus an 
additional 
corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Jennifer Guajardo
Bid Supervisor
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
344 of 1111

--- page 345 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
March 17, 2025 
 
Pencco, Inc. 
Attn: Sarah Duffy 
PO Box 600 
San Felipe, TX 77473 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 06-2025 for 
Supply and Delivery of FERRIC CHLORIDE. 
 
Dear Ms. Duffy,   
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Pencco, Inc. for Bid No. 06-2025, was 
determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of FERRIC CHLORIDE during 
the period July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Pencco, Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
345 of 1111

--- page 346 ---
Bid Results for Project 06-2025 FERRIC CHLORIDE
Bid Due on February 20, 2025  4:00 PM (PDT)
SINGLE BID AWARD
Section
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
Unit of Measure
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
Pencco, Inc
1,480.0000
1,400.0000
1,583.0000
1,583.0000
1,509.0000
1,509.0000
1,500.0000
1,500.0000
FERRIC CHLORIDE
346 of 1111

--- page 347 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9975
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biosolids Hauling and Disposal — Contract Change Order 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 3 to an agreement with Synagro-WWT, Inc. for wastewater treatment plant biosolids 
hauling and disposal services to exercise a one-year extension in the amount of $750,000, for a revised total contract 
amount not to exceed $2,794,250; establish a contingency reserve of $100,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute future change orders and extensions within the contingency balance.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment process produces biosolids, which are hauled off-site for routine disposal. The Wastewater 
Treatment Plant (WWTP) estimates 10,000 tons per year of biosolids requires hauling and disposal.
In June 2022, a three-year agreement was executed with Synagro-WWT, Inc. in the amount of $1,824,250 to haul and 
dispose of the WWTP’s biosolids. The agreement included two optional one-year extensions, which may be executed by 
the City at its discretion. The agreement was awarded in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, wherein a 
competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this service.
Change Order No. 1 was executed in May 2024 to cover increased hauling costs for the second year of the three-year 
agreement, increasing the agreement by $100,000 for a revised total agreement cost of $1,924,250. Change Order No. 2 
was executed in April 2025 to cover increased hauling costs for the third year of the three-year agreement, further 
increasing the total by $120,000 for a revised total amount of $2,044,250. The WWTP has two digesters; however, Digester 
No. 2 has been out of commission for repairs, resulting in increased biosolids production. The increase in biosolids 
production necessitated the execution of Change Orders No. 1 and 2.
Contract Change Order No. 3 will authorize the first one-year extension with the term of the agreement ending on June 30, 
2026. Council’s original action in June 2022 included authorizing the two one-year extensions at a cost of $610,000 each. 
Per the original agreement, the unit price fees past the original three-year term are subject to escalation based on the rate 
of the published consumer price index (CPI) for the applicable period. In addition to adjusting for CPI, staff is estimating 
continued increased biosolids hauling needs as Digester No. 2 will remain out of commission for part of the upcoming fiscal 
year, resulting in the requested amount of $750,000 being requested for this one-year extension. 
Staff recommends approval of Contract Change Order No. 3 in the amount of $750,000 and establishing a contingency of 
$100,000 to address any increased biosolids production that may occur as the WWTP transitions to commissioning and 
starting up the new facilities.
347 of 1111

--- page 348 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for biosolids hauling and disposal services are budgeted annually in the Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations 
operating budget. Pending approval and adoption of the 2025-26 Operating Budget, sufficient funds will be available to 
fund this change order to extend services through June 30, 2026.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This biosolids hauling and disposal is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, 
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order No. 3
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Director Public Works 
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7287
348 of 1111

--- page 349 ---
C:\PGCompilerServiceRelease\temp\sanmateo\MeetingId_1943\Packet\Pdf\33691\11935\1.doc
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER 3
PROJECT:
WWTP BIOSOLIDS HAULING AND DISPOSAL
TO:
SYNAGRO- WWT, INC. 
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.  3
       Page 1 of 1
                                  
 
05/08/25
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
The wastewater treatment process produces biosolids, which are hauled off-site for disposal on a routine basis at a current cost 
of $78.90 per wet ton. 
This CCO is to execute the first term extension of two, one-year extensions for wastewater treatment plant biosolids hauling 
and disposal for a new end date of 6/30/26. In addition, the unit price per wet ton is adjusted based on the rate of the published 
consumer priced index, per the agreement; this results in an increase of the agreement amount by $750,000, resulting in a total 
contract amount not-to-exceed $2,794,250. 
Revise SECTION 3.4 TERM OF CONTRACT AND PRICES to change the end date of the term to June 30th, 2026.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $750,000
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: SYNAGRO- WWT, INC.  
By: Emil Kneis
Title: 
Contracts Manager
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing Department, Contractor, Construction Inspector, 
Project Manager/Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$1,824,250
Previous Change Orders
$220,000
Total to date
$2,044,250
This Change Order
$750,000
Revised Contract Price
$2,794,250
Date Approved: 
By: 
       Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
349 of 1111

--- page 350 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: CONSENT 
CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9976
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16th, 2025
SUBJECT:
Integrated Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System Maintenance and Improvement – Contract Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 4 to an agreement with Enterprise Automation for upgrading and maintaining the 
City’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system in an amount not to exceed $125,000, for a revised total contract 
amount of $475,679; establish a contingency reserve of $20,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
change order in substantially the form presented and execute change orders within the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system allows staff to remotely monitor and control equipment at 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and sanitary sewer and stormwater pump stations throughout the City’s 
collection systems. Previously, the WWTP and pump station SCADA systems were standalone but have recently been 
integrated and updated as part of the Clean Water Program. As a critical system for monitoring operations and receiving 
alarms, the SCADA system requires ongoing maintenance to ensure proper operation.
In 2017-2019, the Clean Water Program issued a Request for Qualifications to preselect system integrators to perform 
SCADA and Programmable Logic Controller programming. Enterprise Automation (EA) was one of three preselected system 
integrators. Pre-authorization familiarizes the vendor with City design standards to allow them to program in the SCADA 
environment without causing unintended problems or catastrophic system errors. 
In October 2023, a $40,804 agreement through June 30, 2024, was executed with EA for the review and improvement of 
the Marina Lagoon Pump Station, including alarm programming updates to improve the assets after the prior significant 
rain events. In November 2023, Council approved Contract Change Order No. 1 to increase EA’s scope and fee by 
$158,352, along with a contingency reserve of $30,000, to evaluate and implement additional functionality improvements 
to the SCADA system. EA is currently implementing those improvements. Last year, EA created a replica of the City’s 
SCADA system that is housed on their server system. Having this replica allows for testing of updates and changes in a safe 
environment prior to deployment thus insulating the City’s SCADA system from unknown or unintended consequences. 
Contract Change Order No. 2 extends the term of the Agreement to July 31, 2024. In July 2024, Council approved Contract 
Change Order No. 3 to increase EA’s scope and fee by $151,523 and extend the contract to continue providing WWTP 
SCADA system maintenance support for the Fiscal Year 2024-25.
As a critical system for monitoring operations and receiving alarms, the SCADA system requires ongoing maintenance to 
ensure proper operation. EA is able to continue addressing both the required maintenance and system improvements 
needed for the integrated SCADA system. Staff recommends approval of Contract Change Order No. 4 to increase the 
budget by $125,000 and extend EA’s contract to maintain and improve the integrated SCADA system through Fiscal Year 
350 of 1111

--- page 351 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2025-26. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the WWTP, Sewer, Storm, and Dale Avenue Pump Station operating budgets to cover the 
cost of the agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this activity will 
have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology support and 
improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section   
15061(b)(3).)  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order No. 4
STAFF CONTACT:
Robert Learmonth, WWTP Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
351 of 1111

--- page 352 ---
C:\PGCompilerServiceRelease\temp\sanmateo\MeetingId_1943\Packet\Pdf\33691\11955\1.doc
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER 4
PROJECT:
Integrated SCADA System Evaluation and Improvement
TO:      Enterprise Automation LLC.
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.  4
Page 1 of _1__
                                  
 
05/08/25
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
This change order will extend Enterprise Automation’s (EA) contract to maintain and improve the integrated Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition System (SCADA). The original contract and scope only covered sewer and stormwater collection systems scope of 
work. Change Order No. 1 expanded the scope to include an evaluation and implementation of additional functionality improvements 
to the SCADA system at wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). Change Order No. 2 was a no-cost time extension. Change Order No. 3 
extended EA’s scope to continue providing WWTP SCADA system maintenance support for the fiscal year 2024-25.
Change Order No 4 will extend EA’s scope to cover Fiscal Year 2025-26, as follows:
Revise “Section 5 - TERM” of the Agreement as follows: “The services to be performed under this agreement shall commence upon 
execution of this agreement and be completed on July 31, 2026.”
Revise the “Exhibit A Scope of Work” of the Agreement to include “SCADA Support Contract FY 2025/2026”.
Revise the second sentence of “Section 6 - Payment', 6.1a” of the Agreement as follows: "In consideration for the full performance of 
the services set forth in Exhibit A , customer agrees to pay vendor in an amount up to $475,679 pursuant to fee rates stated in Exhibit 
A.”
Total cost of change not to exceed: $125,000
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: Enterprise Automation LLC.
By: Emil Kneis
Title: 
Contracts Manager
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing Department, Contractor, Construction Inspector, 
Project Manager/Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price            $40,804.00  
Previous Change Orders          $309,875.00
Total to date                             $350,679.00
This Change Order                  $125,000.00
Revised Contract Price            $475,679.00 
Date Approved: 
By: 
       Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
352 of 1111

--- page 353 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  23
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671-
07-5541
File ID: 25-9977
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Water Quality Control Plant Supply of Liquid Emulsion Polymer – Contract Award
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award a contract to SNF Polydyne, Inc. for the 
supply of liquid emulsion polymer in the amount of $548,973.94; establish a 10 percent contingency reserve in the amount 
of $54,900; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) uses liquid emulsion polymer for the dewatering of biosolids produced during 
the process of treating wastewater. Polymer is a critical component of the dewatering process. Lowering the water 
content in biosolids reduces the transportation costs associated with hauling and disposal.
The current supplier, SNF Polydyne, Inc. (SNF Polydyne), has provided proprietary-blended polymers that have been tested 
and optimized for the WWTP’s biosolids. Staff recommends the continued use of these same polymer blends, Clarifloc WE-
1273 and WE-1728, from SNF Polydyne, since they have consistently demonstrated superior performance and produce the 
necessary results needed to maintain operations at the WWTP. The testing of different polymer blends from other 
chemical vendors would be a time and labor-intensive task which may not produce beneficial results. 
San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) authorizes procurement without competitive bidding procedures when 
calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. A contract with SNF Polydyne is appropriate pursuant to these 
standards since SNF Polydyne is the sole source provider of its polymer blend, Clarifoc WE-1273 and WE-1728. Therefore, 
staff recommends the purchase of polymer from SNF Polydyne.
The contract includes the supply and delivery of 264,960 pounds of the chemical product.
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount
SNF Polydyne, Inc.
$1.89/pound + 9.625% Tax 
$548,973.94
The unit price bid for SNF Polydyne Inc. is $1.89 per pound. The term of the contract is 12 months, and the price is to 
remain firm for the entire period. Including sales tax and tariffs, the total cost to the City is approximately $548,973.94. 
Since the City’s new wastewater treatment plant will be commissioned and operational during the contract term, a 10 
percent, or $54,900, contingency is requested to address any increase in the amount of polymer needed as the new 
facilities become operational.
353 of 1111

--- page 354 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted annually for the supply of chemicals in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because the purchase of liquid emulsion polymer to maintain WWTP 
operations is a continuing maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Sections 15378(b)(2).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Purchase Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Robert Knox, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent
rknox@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7376
354 of 1111

--- page 355 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH SNF POLYDYNE, INC. 
FOR THE SUPPLY OF LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER IN THE AMOUNT OF $548,973.94
WHEREAS, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) uses liquid emulsion polymer for the dewatering 
of biosolids; and
WHEREAS, SNF Polydyne, Inc. provides a custom-blended polymer that has been tested and 
optimized for the WWTP’s biosolids; and
WHEREAS, SNF Polydyne, Inc. is the sole source provider of the custom-blended polymer; and
WHEREAS, retesting of polymer blends from other chemical vendors would be a labor-intensive task, 
requiring additional performance optimization testing; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050 (b) agreements may be awarded 
without competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, or impossible and the City 
Council sets forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with SNF Polydyne, Inc. for the supply of 
liquid emulsion polymer.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because the purchase of liquid emulsion 
polymer for continuing WWTP processes is a continuing maintenance activity involving the 
purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Sections 15378(b)(2).)
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050 (b), calling for bids would be 
impracticable, unavailing, and impossible because:
a)
A custom-blended polymer has been tested and optimized for the WWTP’s biosolids;
b)
SNF Polydyne, Inc. is the only provider of this custom-blended polymer; and
c)
Retesting of different polymer blends would be labor-intensive, requiring 
additional optimization.
3.
The agreement with SNF Polydyne, Inc., for the supply of liquid emulsion polymer, in an amount 
not to exceed $548,973.94, with a contingency reserve in the amount of $54,900, is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented, on behalf of the City.
355 of 1111

--- page 356 ---
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY OF POLYMER FROM SNF 
POLYDYNE, INC.
JULY 1, 2025 TO JUNE 30, 2026
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CITY", SNF SNF P O L Y D Y N E ,  I N C . , a corporation, with offices at One Chemical 
Plant Road, Riceboro, GA 31323, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) CITY desires to engage SUPPLIER to provide these liquid emulsion polymers by reason 
of its qualifications and experience and SUPPLIER has offered to provide the required good on the 
terms and in the manner set forth within. 
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
264,960 POUNDS OF LIQUID EMULISION POLYMER.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to, the sum of not to exceed $548,973.94 (five hundred forty-eight 
thousand nine hundred seventy-three dollars and ninety-four cents), priced at $1.89 
per pound of liquid emulsion polymer, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax and tariff 
fees.
In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those 
set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract, Contract Resolution, and Sole Source Letter.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
356 of 1111

--- page 357 ---
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2025 
and June 30, 2026.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager with a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified 
Analysis indicating LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and 
any applicable regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control 
Plant Manager's designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER to the City of San Mateo, Wa t e r  Q u a l i t y  C o n t r o l  Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
357 of 1111

--- page 358 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating condition.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will be furnished F.O.B. Destination 
City of San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 275-gallon totes. 
If SUPPLIER is located outside the 650 area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will generally be prescheduled to 
provide SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within twenty-four (24) hours, unless the CITY requires 
delivery within twenty-four (24) hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. 
In the event SUPPLIER fails to provide the chemicals within twenty-four (24) hours or other 
scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative 
source, all additional CITY cost incurred will be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who 
agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately upon demand.
Once an order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Water Quality Control Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Rejection. All shipments of LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will be rejected without the 
following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Liquid emulsion polymer
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
358 of 1111

--- page 359 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the CITY. 
By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any defective 
goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of the CITY’s 
rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. SUPPLIER shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
13.
Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed S.D.S.  (Safety Data Sheet) 
with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed S.D.S. form will result in rejection 
of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY 
also requires the S.D.S. to be sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a 
hazardous substance. All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly 
adhered to.
14.
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended methods 
for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any recommended 
absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended tests to be 
performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These instructions will 
be used by water quality control plant personnel m cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in 
pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide, upon demand of the CITY, two (2) sessions annually, encompassing a 
minimum of two hours per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being provided by 
SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the transport 
of liquid emulsion polymer.
15.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the sureties shall 
have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 
5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written notice of their intention to 
take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem 
advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY 
for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability 
for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor.
16.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & advertising injury, 
with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice 
359 of 1111

--- page 360 ---
the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
360 of 1111

--- page 361 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
17.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
18.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
361 of 1111

--- page 362 ---
19.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
20.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
21.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
22.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
23.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
24.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
362 of 1111

--- page 363 ---
25.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
26.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
363 of 1111

--- page 364 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove 
named, as of the day and year first above written.
       
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
Marc Schag
Vice President
Date
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign below
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
364 of 1111

--- page 365 ---
SNF

WATER SCIENCE polydyne.com

April 30, 2025

Mr. Robert Knox

WWTP Operations Superintendent/Public Works
City of San Mateo WWTP

2500 Detroit Drive

San Mateo, CA 94404

SUBJECT: Sole Source Proposal
Dear Mr. Knox,

Please accept this letter as Polydyne Inc.’s proposal that we are the sole source manufacturer and
supplier of the following product supplied to the City of San Mateo:

CLARIFLOC™ WE-1273 and CLARIFLOC™ WE-1728

A sole source declaration is a frequently used method by which municipal customers can secure the
purchase of goods that have proven efficacy in their process and cannot be obtained from any other
source.

The above-named CLARIFLOC™ polymers have a molecular structure, molecular weight, and
particular raw material components that are unique to Polydyne’s CLARIFLOC™ product line.
CLARIFLOC™ is Polydyne’s trademark and no other vendor is authorized to supply these products.

For the period of July 1*, 2025, through June 30", 2026, Polydyne Inc. shall commit to manufacture,
maintain inventory, and supply the City of San Mateo with CLARIFLOC™ WE-1273, CLARIFLOC™ WE-
1728, or a similar CLARIFLOC™ polymer at the price of $1.89 per pound.

Thank you for your business. If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact
Sarah Ben-Yoseph, Technical Sales Representative, at (415) 404-2138.

Best regards,

Sarah Ben-Yoseph
Technical Sales Representative

Polydyne Inc. * 1 Chemical Plant Road « Riceboro, GA 31323 USA « Tel 800.848.7659
365 of 1111


--- page 366 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  24
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9978
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Grit, Rag, and Scum Hauling and Disposal — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Compactor Management Company LLC, for Wastewater Treatment Plant grit, rag, and scum 
hauling and disposal in the amount of $160,300; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $40,000; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the 
contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) requires hauling and disposal of grit, rags, and scum on a regular basis that is 
essential to maintain normal operations. This contract will provide for the removal of an estimated 1,400 tons of material 
with 140 hauls of solids over 36 months.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for this service. 
Specifications and a Notice Inviting Sealed Bids were published in April 2025. One bid was received and opened on May 8, 
2025, with the following result: 
Bid Amount
Contractor
Per Ton
Trip
Total 
Compactor Management Company LLC
     $66
       $485
$160,300
Staff reviewed the single bid and recommended the agreement be awarded to Compactor Management Company LLC. The 
term of the contract is 36 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire 36-month period. 
Staff recommends establishing a contingency of $40,000 to allow for any fluctuations in the amount of grit, rags, and scum 
to be hauled and disposed of as the WWTP operations will be transitioning to starting the new facilities once they are 
commissioned.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for these services is budgeted annually in the WWTP operating budget. Pending approval and adoption of the 
Fiscal Year 2025-26 operation budget, sufficient funding will be available to award this agreement and establish the 
requested contingency.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
366 of 1111

--- page 367 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Robert Knox, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations Superintendent
rknox@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7376
367 of 1111

--- page 368 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW)
Page 1 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH COMPACTOR MANAGEMENT COMPANY LLC 
FOR GRIT, RAG, AND SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL SERVICES 
FOR THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT  
This Agreement, made and entered into this __________________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and COMPACTOR MANAGEMENT COMPANY LLC, a Limited Partnership ("CONTRACTOR"), 
whose address is 32420 Central Ave, Union City, CA 94587. 
RECITALS: 
A. 
CITY desires certain grit, rag, and scum hauling and disposal services hereinafter 
described. 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these grit, rag, and scum hauling and 
disposal services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement. CONTRACTOR shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
368 of 1111

--- page 369 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2025 and be 
completed on June 30, 2028. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount of 
$160,300, a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
369 of 1111

--- page 370 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or employee 
of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s 
performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful 
misconduct. CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The 
CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
370 of 1111

--- page 371 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It is 
the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney 
fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
371 of 1111

--- page 372 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
To CITY: 
Robert Learmont 
Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
City of San Mateo 
Wastewater Treatment Plant 
2050 Detroit Drive 
San Mateo, CA 94404 
 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Compactor Management LLC 
Attn:  Toni Lucio 
32420 Central Ave 
Union City, CA 94587 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
372 of 1111

--- page 373 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and COMPACTOR 
MANAGEMENT LLC has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Matt Fabry 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Toni Lucio 
Its Authorized Agent 
Sales Manager 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Ken Truong 
Inside Sales 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services (Bid Book) 
Exhibit B:  
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C:  
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
373 of 1111

--- page 374 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
374 of 1111

--- page 375 ---
Exhibit A

CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly 12025 TO Jone 30 2028

CITY COUNCIL AWARD

‘CONTRACT BOOK

CONTENTS

[NOTICE INVITING SEALED PROPOSALS
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS.
‘SECTION 1, INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS AND PURCHASE CONTRACT CONDITIONS
‘SECTION 2. GENERAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
‘SECTION 3. PECIPIC CONTRACT TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS
‘SECTION 4, TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
AGREEMENT

375 of 1111


--- page 376 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
[GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“aly 1,2028 TO June 0, 2028

[NOTICE INVITING SEALED PROPOSALS

Scaled bids will be rccved by the Cly Clerk ofthe Ciy of San Mate, Cafes, for
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL a=
ssn inthe strc o Bie.

‘The Conract Book end proposal foms ae avaible as a. fice download at
lnioJciotsepmatsoartbichasps. CONTRACTORS WHO "DOWNLOAD. THE
DOCUMENTS WILL NOT BE ADDED TO THE PLAN HOLDER LIST OR NOTIFIED
‘OF ANY ADDENDA. Addenda wll be availabe a dowload athe se we aston.

Instron o Biers are availble at he City of San Mateo ~ City Hl Public Works Deprtent,
330 W. 20 Avenue, Sen Mateo, Caloris, 4403. Any quesions reparting the conract
‘documents shouldbe dred 1 Robert Koox t (680) 5227376, on witng mised wo 330 W.
‘0 Avenue, Son Mateo, Califia, 94403 6 va ema o oxen os.

‘Supple i noted tht dey shall comply with tbe requirements for Nox Disciminaton as set
{oth the General Cott Resuirenen

‘Aten issued during te tne of bdsing sal become a part ofthe documents fished to
‘ides forthe pepuion of bs, sal covered in he tds, and sal be ade a part he
(Conact. Each isha nlae pei acknowledgement inthe space provid of reel of ll
‘Adena ised during the bidding pid. Failure to acknowledge way rest the BA blag
‘ejected a not esponsve. Fala of any bidder to reseve such Addenda shal nt be grounds fee
‘on-complane withthe terms ofthe istration cs the resol of he Contacte fo
contact the Cito determine te existence o any and al dena

‘Te trm ofthe ons wile fora thirty-six (96) moh prio ening Joly 2025 and ending
ape 30,2028. Thee wil ban opin fortwo one-ear xenon

In general the proving wage sale, as determined by the Dict of Industral Relations ofthe
Ste of Calfria, in frce onthe day tis id was anounced, wil be the msi pid wal
traflsmen und laborers working on this project. In some eases, prealing wage detentions have
titer a singe asterisk (*) or double ass (*) afer the expetion date neff on the eo
venom forbs

{a cases wher the prevaing wage determinations have a single atari (*) afer the expiration
de whic rein eet on he dt of adversemen for bs, sch determin remain in eect
forthe life of te projec. Prevalng wage detentions which have double sstrshs(*) afer
the expiration dt niet thatthe base hourly wage mi, overtine, and holiday pay rae, and
tsiployer yen tobe pai for work performed afr hs dt ave bee restr

works extended ps this, the new ate mst be pid ad boule incorpo in contacts
‘he Conractoremer i,

Pusat fo Seton 1773 ofthe Labor Code, the general prevailing wage rates in he county, or
“ous, which the work bo be done have Boon determine ty the Dien of the Caos
Department of Idi Relations. The wages st forth nth Geveral Prevaling Wage Rates
fortis projet willbe poste a thjod sts understate espn of he ier

2

376 of 1111


--- page 377 ---
CCITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly 12025 70 Jone 30,2028

to determine the correct sale. The City wil keep acop ofthe wage sale nthe Cl Clk office
‘the convenience of bidders. The Sue Prevling Wage Rates may also becca fom the
Celifoia Deparment flag! Rela internet woh sit ate digo. Ay eos
or defects nthe material inthe City Cer fice wl a excse wider compy with
the aca stale then in force.

1 Therighsesered, asthe intrest ofthe Ciy may requ rjet ny or al bids, to waive any
Infoemaly in ies, and to accep, mai, feet any tems of the i, rn the ceo ange
‘bd being received to extend the scepance ds by up 1 thiy 0) days with nod. The ly of
Sin Mato i cher City and any cote entered nor abet othe provisos ofthe Clty of
Sua Mito Chr, which nay supersede certain provisos ofthe Pull Conrat Code another
provisions of stat.

9. A-mandory pei mesg i scheduled to beheld on Api 29,2025 100 am, This pre-id
‘meting shal be bld ath iy of San Mateo Wastewater Trestment Pat, 2080 Dot Dive,
Stn Mateo, CA 94408, Te meting shal be approximately one hour The Conc Book WILL
[NOT be evalble at this mosting

‘Tis snot apre-qualifiation macing tual idler ace sronalyavseo ste his esting.

10, Sass proposals shal e marked “Sele Hid Wastewater Teeter: Pant Grit, Rag & Seu
aatng And Dispos” and shal be delvre othe City Cer, City Hall, 30 West 20 Avenue,
San Mao, Califia 9405, tor before 2:00 pum. May 8, 2028, any sal be oped nd
tea bya Cy Representative esl at and Une aa ple meeting called by them

11, Sad City Representative shall report the results ofthe bing to the Cly Coulter, a which
time the Gy Coun may award the conrct the lowest expos bier a3 reported or at
‘he Cys rest may tte Th Cty Coxe may exer ht o modify the avert OF 0
‘eet any oll ls. Any pats tsar orc sl flow procade ned a Cy
(Counc Resolution No. 6, cated une 7,200

ase: Apil24, 2028 /S/ROB NEWSOM JR, MAYOR

377 of 1111


--- page 378 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“aly 1,2028 TO June 30,2028

PROPOSAL. FORM
ice propos oe sited as ele bid.)

‘To THE HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

DEAR COUNCIL MEMBERS:

FOR THE TOTAL SUMOF s140380 (os figures oly) fr Grit, Rag, & Seum Hauling and
Dispenal corp frm the unt pies showy othe ataced sched fbi tems the ners
hereby proposes and aves tht i this proposal accepted he wil contract With he ly of San Mito,
California, to furish a aber, materia, tons, upon, tnsporation, an all Ingen work and
Serves requiedo complete al tems of werk shown nthe contrat docu.

‘This proposal is also subj tothe terms and condions of the atacbed BIDDER'S STATEMENT,

ADDENDA ~ Thi propos is subnited wih respect tothe changes othe cone feed nthe adden

‘By my sigur on hs proposal ear, under penalty of peru unde the avs of State of California
snd Uni Sates of Ameren, tha fhe Non-Colaion AHN regio by Tile 23 Unite Ses Cade,
‘Section 112 nd Pubic Cntet Code Sesion 7106 ere and core

‘The work sl be ps frat the unit pres shown on the etched SCHEDULE OF BID FTEMS,

~ V 5/7/2025,
SumpiiGh iene Due
Compactor Management Company, LLC

‘Name of Company

510 ) 500-4440

Phone Numba

510 ) 623-2357
Fax Namber

By my signature on his proposal s bier, declares that he ony persons or pats interest inthis
props a principals re those named heen tht his proposal sade witout olson with xy ther
son, firm, o corporation; hate as crf examina he eatin ofthe proposed work, he anes
Propose form of contac and he proposes, ad agrees if this propa is ene, he wil contrac,
With te City of San Matco, inthe frm ofthe copy of the contact amnened hero, wil opp all
upon ab, and material a eqled by the Carat Bok and Ine in accordance with hic,
doll he werk and furnish al te mail speclied in the conte, nthe manner a ine therein
prestte, and scoring othe reuiements et far anda he wil ke il payment therefore he
folowing pcs, as shown on the Schedule of Bid ems

378 of 1111


--- page 379 ---
‘CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
“aly 12028 TO June 30, 2028

‘SCHEDULE OF BID ITEMS
(Tobe ssmined with Proposal For)
[TIEN DESCRIPTION oF WORE UNIT PRICE | TOTAL COST
No. {price pr tom)
1 | Dispos of rg scum, $66 392,400
Estimated forcen hundred (1400) ons.
“This contrat requires fve-<ach 20-yard topless
selloff tins Each 20a topless rl ofTbin
‘eure our wheel, oe ear each omer, and
the Flowing dimensions 44" X20" XI"
‘tw accormodte the dhmpster conveyor system,
unmrerice — | TOTAL Cost
2 | Rowdtipsransporation ormoanch weny | $485, 67900
(20) yard topes containers
Estimated one hundred forty (140) has
‘TOTAL BID $160,300

379 of 1111


--- page 380 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
[WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
aly 1 2028 TO Jane 30,2028

‘QUESTIONNAIRE
(To be suited wih Proposal Form)

‘The Bidder shal supply the flowing information with he bid (seats sts i necessary)

1, uma, tpe, sis, aoagsofhalngequpment proposed
20Ut KenworhRolr onc

‘2072 Peterbilt Rll-Of" Truck

2 Address where baa et maybe inspected
32420 Contral Avenug, CA 94587

3, Statement fb plan ncinganicpted diy picks, nd backup options.
{Gc will provides pont of contact avallabie 24 hours day, dara eek or emergency

sevice calls CMC wl provide (5 20,74 open topless ol off bins to thecty ofan Mateo, WTP.
{uc wil wap haul and dispose of materia in containers at Altamont Landi,

4. Describe in deal your git ag & scum huling experience. Include onmage previously banded,
‘rlning afer experience or mangement, siface som, abd groundwater prteton

(OMCs the current contract holder for hauling the Grit, Rag.and Scum forthe ly of

‘an Mateo. CMC provides hauling services for Union Sanitary District hy arriving wih
anempty container to swap withthe onsite container fl ogi, then dumps at the Altamont

landfill, CMC also provides (2) 26 vd containers rentals at 2 separate Modesto Wastewater plants

nd picks up, dumps and returns containers according ast schedule.

380 of 1111


--- page 381 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT |
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“aly 1,2028 TO June 30, 2028

QUESTIONNAIRE,
(ote submit with Proposal Fors)

5. Provide dipole or sts (a, lacton, snd apeoved st casein),

Name phon number of conte eres. hours f operation abl how racy the same sites wil bus
10840 Altamont Pass Rd, Livermore,CA 94550.

hours of operations: Monday - Friday, 6AM-4PM,

{isa Willams -(925)423-5164

6 List ary limitation on ime of a, day of Wek andlor ary aes tht rt rg sum toma bs ace

ests) pre
‘Atamat Land Woda schedule (Closed: Now Year's Day Thanksgiving and Christmas

[Non operation days: Saturday and Sundays

7. Name of two cont references inloding telephone number and contact person Le, leat tame and
entactnae ad poston)
Union Sanitary District - Skip Calvo - Purchasing Agent -(510}477-7526

Modesto Wastewater - John Benincorp - Plant Operator (209)652-2324

List al ang pemi, including PUC, ICC an DOT and provide copies part fb sabia
PUC:N/A Oe

Ice/Me #0649600
spore: 2719628

381 of 1111


--- page 382 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
SInly 12028 Tune 30,2028,

BIDDERS STATEMENT
SHEET 10F 3
(Tobe submited with Proposal Form)

‘The undersigned has carefily ed the ete Contact Book under his intaton oid and relies
that any equipment, supplies or services tat may fl Yo comply wth the corract egulremess
Invein ae subject 1 ejection and ay, a the opin ofthe Ciy be rejected. Sach ated
‘yume, labor, oruppis sal be reisced entirely mt he Sopp expense an aust do
So within a reasonable length fine sal be safe rae forthe withtoiing of payment for
ty prof ral fhe equips, bor, or materials api Reasonable eng one wl ake
Ino consideration the Cly's cecal seed t most NPDES Permit requirements (Seton 3.2
Guna)

Pursuat io Busnes and Professions Code Sesion 728.15, 20e Mapa _, declare under
etal of ey ha te ean ad sented ni Tie ve ed
‘oj are te and comet and tht his declaration sade on this 7-day of May 2025,
fe tnion cy" Calon

‘The designed underside ho must most the requests of Section 22, NON:
DISCRIMINATION POLICY pre to sward of const and conana to those guines
‘troupiou te duration ofthe contact.

Ie isunderstond thatthe quae efor erin sre apprise oly and arto be sed aly or
‘the comparison of ids andthe gulanc ofthe ide

awarded th cote, te undersigned hereby ages to sign and flan apreemert, sac ws
Appendix I together with the eoriicate() of inswance,reled endorsements for fener at
‘usemobil iby insure, nd prot ofa Sun Mateo Bsinss License inthe ofc ofthe City
‘Clerk within ten (1) days, nx inetsing Satay, Sundays and lea ola, afr te bidder
‘hs reeved notice fromthe Cty of Sen Mate tha the contact has een awarded and commence
‘work wih fv (5) days of he date specified in the nace o proceed and to mpl the work
‘ude sald contract pe he eatat book and contact documet Supplier lo ogres oka he
[Business cee carent forthe entire tem of te contac

the nit rice andthe ol amone ned ya bidet for ay item donot agri wil be assumed
thatthe ero was mae in computing the total mou and the uit price sane wil be considered
8 represening the Bie’ imei.

382 of 1111


--- page 383 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly f, 2028 TO Fone 30,2028,

SHEET 20F 3
(Tobe submited with Proposal Form)

‘The undersigned has checked careful al he igus ise nthe Schedule of Bd Hem and understands
‘hat the City wll ot be responsible fray eso oisions on ths pat ofthe undersjned in making
pts bid

‘The undenigned ares tt ths id ay’ ot be witha fora perio af forgive (45) days fr the
dhe set teepaning eco.

NOTE: IF THE PROPOSAL IS MADE BY AN INDIVIDUAL, HIS NAME AND POST OFFICE
ADDRESS MUST BE SHOWN. IF THE PROPOSAL IS MADE BY A PARTNERSHIP, THE NAME
[AND ADDRESS OF EACH MEMBER OF THE FIRM OR PARTNERSHIP MUST BE SHOWN Gf more
than (wo members ofa frm or panes, please atch an adional page: OR IF MADE BY A
CORPORATION, THE PROPOSAL SHALL SHOW THE NAME OF THE STATE UNDER THE LAWS
(OF WHICH THE CORPORATION WAS CHARTERED AND THE NAMES, TITLES AND BUSINESS
[ADDRESSES OF THE PRESIDENT, SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF SAID CORPORATION,

383 of 1111


--- page 384 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“uly 1 2028 TO June 0, 2038

SHEET 30F3

(Tobe subd wih Proposal Fon)

SIGNATURES FoR BIDDER:
INDIVIDUAL, sign below CORPORATION, sign iow (how names of

iinea

PARTNERSHIP, sign below show names of
onsigningperne)

s/7202s
Siem Dae

Lue.

Tas

Wo wien ppisee we.
Name ofParee st names of he flloningofces

{0170 Alvarado hes Rd Vion hy 6494587
PRESIDENT

s77pr0s ‘SECRETARY
‘TREASURER

Post Ofiee Ae
Pos: Oice Address (Fire)

384 of 1111


--- page 385 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
‘ly 1,2028 TO June 30, 2028

NONCOLLUSION AFFIDAVIT
(abe submited with Propel Form)

Sit of Calfomia >
a

County of Alameda )

Zoe Mapa ing fiat duly svom, depose und say that he or she is Project Manager of

‘sono omen the pry making the foregoing bid thatthe bids nt made inthe inert of oon
Tel of o any unloved peso, partnership compan, ascciton,oranztion or expo tht
the bids gensne ae not colsive osha tha the ide has no ety or indirect Indes
‘ny oder bidder to put in a fuse or sham bid, snd has nt ety 0° ine coloed, consid,
onnived,o red with ny bidder o anyone ese Lo putin shar Bi, o tha njone shal ren ro
ing that the bide as notin any manne, directly or indrestiy, sougt by agreement, communication
or contrence with anyone ffx the bd pie of of tat of ay other Bde, oro scare contac: th all
Statements contained inthe bid are oe an ure, tat ede aso deol, submited
Is or hor bid pce o ay Breakdown tooo, ote coments thro, or eivuled information oda
ruse thre, or pal and wil pt pu, any fe oan carporion, patna, company association,
rganizaion, i depos, to ay metabo agent tera ellectuate a eallsve osha i

Note: The above aft spr ofthe Proposal. Signing tis Proposal onthe signature portion there
shal lo conti signature of his aft

Subscribed and swom to before me,
a Notary Pubic in and forthe

oo at

>
fey Ge atl hbase Z ZO
seta vas

My commission expires

‘END OF AFFIDAVIT™*

385 of 1111


--- page 386 ---
ZA nolary pubic or oer offcer completing tis)

foros vers only the erty othe dual
{no signed the document to nih he cercate
'satactod, and not he tutunes, accuracy
(validity ofthat document. “I

‘State of Calforia
County of Alameda

‘Subscribed and swom to (or affirmed) before me on tis 7th
day of May 2025, by Zoe Mapa

‘roved to me on the basis of saefaciory evidence tobe the
Person(s) who appeared before me.

cea

386 of 1111


--- page 387 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
[WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“uly 1,2025 TO Jane 30,2028

ION
(oe ssbmited with Proposal Fors)

‘On beta ofthe bidder making tis propos he undersigned ceties tht thre wl be no isiminaton
imemployment with eae o race, clr, region, ses sbi oral vgn th al eer, sae,
Tocal directives, and exeetve orders rgardg soweriinaion tn employment wil be complied wih,
andthe pip of-qual oppor) Inemplaymen wil e demonstra ponidvly and agressive

‘Compactor Management Company, LLC
inipDeR

‘Zoe Mapa, Project Manager
‘ame and ie of person making certian)

s/7pos

387 of 1111


--- page 388 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly 1,2028 TO June 30,2028

CERTIEK rr
(Tobe submited with Proposal orm)

{am aware ofthe provisos of Seton 370 of the Labor Code tht equie every employe to be insured
‘gant lbilty fr workers compensation ro unerake selsurace nacre withthe provisions
{tht code, and | wl comply with such provisions bere commencing the performance ofthe work
‘his contact,

Compactor Management Company, LLG
aIbDH

‘Zoe Mapa, Project Manager
‘Rane ade of peon making erfeiony

5/7/2028
Date

388 of 1111


--- page 389 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
aly 12028 TO June 38,2028,

[SECTION 1, INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS AND PURCHASE CONTRACT CONDITIONS

13

1

13

EXPLANATIONS TO BIDDERS

‘All questions and any explanation desired by a hdd egaring the mewsing or inerprettion of
‘he salitoa, specifiations, contact ef, must be reqused in writing and ected the rae
Tse on the Noise Inviting Sealed Proposals aot Iter than seven (7) a prior to the da a
‘pected in he soliton, Oral explanations or instructions given Delos te shard of he cout
wil tbe bang Any information given to a prospetve te concercing a sliaton will be
‘Renshed toa prospective bdr in riage amendment tobe soliton, suck information
Isncesay to blder in sublting Ds on the Slaton o ithe ak of sch information would
be prsudll wo unnvomed dds.

“Tae original and one (1) copy of teenie Contr Book shal be sane and submited comple
rig! shal be notes or amped origin. Filet eu the entre Conc Bok with te oe
‘wiles in dination o te bide

Bids an modicatons thereof shal be enclosed in sesed envelop) and addres othe ofce
speed inthe solictaion

PREPARATION OF BIDS
‘Blaser ace expected to examine the peifationsscholules end al insractons. Flr to J 0
‘sil beat th ers ise

‘Al besa be cone to be in ret compliance widh he Bevo pein ad he
Successful tier wil be held responsible heefre unless anand ll variations om The
‘Peotone erty dees an sie ppc data sabe wih ei tow
Sr uae oie opcistion.

ach bier hl unish ll infrmaion eget theslication Tobe lige for awa the
‘bidder mast sign the wolcton proposal forms and pent oe ype kena inthe space provided.
‘Bids signed by an agent arto be accompanied by evidence of tsi auory anes sah evidence
ts bon previously fishes.

Unit prices with exended total for cach tom sll be Hse in ley legible Figures i he
respocve spaces provided forth purpose an shal nlue all pacing charges.

(@) The amour st foth unde th “om Toa column shal ete pdt ofthe nit price bid and
‘te estimated quay forte ten Incase of discrepancy between the uit price and teal st
‘or form uni basis tem, th unt rice stall preval excep as provide in (3) F(a lows

389 of 1111


--- page 390 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
“aly 1, 2028 TO June 30,2028,

(©) tthe amount set forth sui pie ead or otherwise unter, a omits oi the
same a he amount asthe exe inter ol elu then the os et forth the er
‘oul columa forthe em shal peal wn stale dived by tho estimated quan fr heer)
andthe pice ths oitane shal be the uni peices

(© (Desinal Eros Ihe pote of the entered unit price andthe estimated quant is vay of
by factor of ten, one hundred, et, rosette one-hundred etc. fom the entered oa,
the discrepancy wil be esclved By wing the exiored unit pie orm oa, whichever most,
‘losly approximates percentage wise he nitric or ten tain the City San Mato Final
Estimate feo

(@ both the unit pice andthe Hem otal ae uneatabeor otherwise ween, ae omit, he
bidmay be deena regula

(6) Symbols sucha commas an lar signs wil be igor and have no mathematica sigiiance
‘enabling any at price or ter otal, Ween vi pies td He ol wil be interpreted
scoring tote nue of its an, if applica, decimal plcement ens symbols als ave
‘no signfcance in etbishng ay ui prc o em val singe all figures ae ssaed to be
‘Sapesel in dlls snd dsm ftos of «olla

14 The foregoing provisions fr he eho f specif iregurtes cant be so comprehensive ss
twcover ever onlsse,iconisensy, cor or er iregulrty, which may ecu n B.A
‘Saton nt spell provid for wil determined nthe dscain ofthe iy of an ten,
‘nth igrion wl be exercised inthe manne deemed by he ity of San Nate obs rote
the pica nthe prompts exami campation ofthe work. The dession oF te Cy
of San Mao respecting th aroun! of abi, rte enstance or treatment fa regula in 8
bid shall be fia

1.5 The prices quoted shal remain muni al servis erm re completed.

1.6. When iste, The City of Sen Mateo wil we prompt pyment count tems when vahating
Bids, however, dacours terms of ess the twenty (2) dys wil not be considered. The minimum
acceptable payment ems witout Bnei of twenty QD) day discount shll be NET 30 days. List
rome pyment Scouts offered on page Io the sition

1.7 Taxes hl be NOT be cade inthe bid pices,

1.8 Time, stated ata uber of a, wil ince Strays, Sunday nd bodys

19 Bidders ae cautioned te note any requirement for carifeaton of understanding shown in te
Soliton. Bidders ging sch cerifeatesndcate understanding and agreement o comply with
‘he specications and wil be el fly respoebl,

390 of 1111


--- page 391 ---
CCITY OP SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly 1202870 June 30,2028,

1.10 AWARD OF CONTRACT.

“The right is served ore any ad all proposal. The aad of contact, if sade, wl bet the
lowest responsible bidder whose proposal complies with all be reqiementspresrbe, o has
morta tthe sastaton ofthe Cty, adoque good Tal efforts tod on determining the
‘evar cael consideration by City sal be gven to cach tem of bi. wil be compare on
{he basis of he Wastewater Treximent Plant Managa’s estimate ofthe quate of prot to be
Inne and spose of. The City eserves the ight amend or eject ry oral propos and lo to
select modi or eject any of bid es as Cty sees ints bes ines

1.11 LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER,

Incaderto promot the policy declared above contract fo publi wks wil be aarded only to such
‘bids a re determine we met he folowing qualicatons of owes responsible ier.

“The owes responsi sal ete ide who bids to proviethe goods ant srvies according
to he conrct quirement therefore for the leat aout of money provide the ber ha the
bly, capacity and, wen neesary the rere State or ohe cere

In determining to wham the awards tote made, the warding atorty my cose, in aon >
‘the bid or qt eee the experienc of e ier forthe purl eve Sug he uaiy
‘of work tha he bdr as don, the qulty ofthe prodot or mueriasprovides by he bide, the
sty of the bier o complete projet na tinely mane, the safety compllane ecard othe
‘ide, and ho insurance earod byte Er,

1.12 EXAMINATION OF THE SITE AND OTHER BIDDER RESPONSUILITES,

10s farther the bie’ esos tobe copslza fall he ators ave i finshing labor |
snd equipment to dispose ogi rag & scum including Warsprtaon, hauling delivery an urladlng

ofp, ig & scum ffm the Cly of San Mateo Wastewater Teaeat Plat lead a 2080 Det
Dave ta disposal ste Such factors inci, but we mot tied complet fala with the
layout ofthe City's facts.

‘Bidar should ave complete familar with al access oad othe City of San Mateo Wastewater
fly, nln dices involve in mancwverng lage veils in conned ars.

‘Bidder aust ase the aalebilty ofan adequate numberof veblles and alte, knowledgeable
divers t haul gi, ag & sci, apd be ale to Kecp a close albon with iy staff comeing |
Scheduling o any problems relied to production ates.

391 of 1111


--- page 392 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
“nly 12025 TO Jone 30,2028

SECTION 2, GENERAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
21 INSURANCE

2:10 REQUIRED INSURANCE: The Supplier sll provide and main Insurance per Seton 8 of he
Agreement

2.11 POLICY ENDORSEMENT: Por 1o commencement of serves, insurance coverage must be
‘vlenced by a propery exscused policy endorsement showing tha the Mura spriary With
‘espet to any Insurance or self-insurance programs of City an Fstero Municipal Improverent
Disc, tir lett and appoined oils employees, and gens and dol insre coverage
Inaidion toa sarifsac of insurance Ganple endorsement tached) an it shall are "The Cy af
‘San Mano and The Esto Murcia Improvement Disc, hl elcted and appointed ofc,
employees, and gens, addonal insureds.”

2.12 NOTICE OF CANCELLATION: The Ciy regres 30 days writen notice of canetisin
‘Aalitonaly, tb note satemett onthe cerieate should et lide the wording "endever 1
"ut areal such notice sal ipose po blipton Fait of my Kind spon he emp,
lis agents or repesentaies

‘To prevet delay and insure compliance withthe reqements ofthe specications, the insurance
enifoss and endorsements must Be tur

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
CETY OF SAN MATEO.
“20.20 Avene
SAN MATEO, CA 94405,

392 of 1111


--- page 393 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSA\
“nly 12028 TO Jone 30,2028,

‘SAMPLE ENDORSEMENT FORM FOR COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY

POLICY NUMBER: ‘COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY

‘THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

ADDITIONAL INSURED - OWNERS, LESSEES
‘OK SUPPLIERS (FORM B)
This endorsement mois insurance provided under he fllowing:
‘COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
"AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
SCHEDULE
Name of pein oerganization:

‘The City of San Mato andthe Estero Municipal Improvement Dist the eed and appond oils,
cmployess and agers are named sana insured

(GC no entry appears show, information required to complete tis endorsement will be shown in te
Declaration ar splcable this enlrsaent).

‘WHO 1s AN INSURED (Section I is amend include a an ised the person oe opanizaton shown
‘in the Schule, but nly with espe Uablity asing ou your Work for Gat sare bye Te You

‘This insurance shal apy as pny surance rept any Penon, Organization, Paersip o Jone
ensure med above anda othe: lsurancesvale sch Prem, Orpaization Parner ee aint
‘Venture sal be exes and et coribtery with th stance eflrded th poli),

393 of 1111


--- page 394 ---
CCITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“aly 12025 TO Jone 30,2028

22 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY, Iti the policy ofthe Cy of San Mateo tht all quad
Persons robe aforded equal opportunites of employment on ty ple wks contac reed
fat withthe Cy.

23. STANDARDS OF NON-DISCRIMINATION

‘A The sucesf ldder shall underake avon ensure that apcnis an employes sre
‘reed al such hat the praipes of ual opportunity employment ae domonsed
Pstvely and aggressively during employment, lho par o ac, co, lige, ex,
‘Ssbiiy, oF anal eae

B. —Inalladverisement for abr or ter personel r request fr employes of any nat,
the sucesfil Bidder shal sate th al qualified applcans wil recive cnsieraion for
employment without repro race, colt, reign, exo ational org,

24 CERTIFICATION OF NOX-DISCRIMINATION, Pact Heron any contrat sal sign the

‘aifcaion of onaieriminatio, hich apr athe proposal fom

25 MEDIATION. Pies ee sreement Seton 1
26 ATTORNEY FEES. Piss ce agreement Section 10.
2.7 HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNITY PROVISION. Plus so areament Seton.

SECTION 3. SPECIFIC CONTRACT TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS:

34 GUARANTEE The Supplier warrants and guarantees that qupment use ar ofthe ype and guaity
‘specified heen in the opinion ofthe Cy, the equipment is found to be imperfect oro a grade
Inferior tht et forth nthe requirements o ar oud tobe defcet nist any ober standard set
forth the contract they wl be ejected an mst be eplaced without expense 1 the Cy

‘The Supper understands tht prompt plckup and disposal of git, rag & scum we eral w the
\wastewalerFeamest plans operons. The Super Warants and parties to mee equenens
‘etforthin his doivent

Inthe event offi to comply wit the above-mentioned condos within a esonal ine user
tie te ly will ke al pees steps to dspose ofthe it rag & scum, athe expense of he
Supplier. wh wrest py te costs and charges therefore imeitly upon demand

“The sgning ofthe agreement bythe Supple shal consti exciton of the above guarantees

{32 GOODS-T0 BE SUPPLIED AND WORK TO BE PERFORMED. The Sopp shal efor all
Work necessary to coiplete the contact ia salfictry mame. Unies terwise povided the
Supp shal furnish ard provide ll materi, equpnert tol lor and incidental neces to
trapr: nu, ivr an unlod asset forth inthe SECTION 4: TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
tnd ts Seton,

394 of 1111


--- page 395 ---
33

a4

as

CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
‘oly 1,2028 TO June 30,2028

[CHANGES INITIATED BY THE AGENCY. The City of San Mateo reserves the ight to change
‘he scope of is eer inorder allan the coxract pce othe monies svaable. The Cty shall
have fl author and discretion to determine the decrease or Increase In guatites require. The
Supplier sal tbe ented w ay don! compensation or ajusment inthe unit pcs ek
bocoise of he abovesated arton of this soppy comet.

‘Te term ofthe sorta wil befor a this (36) month

‘TERM OF CONTRACT AND PRICES.
‘sid ginning J, 3025 an ending June 30, 2028. Supliers providing aque stl be bound

byte pice iste inthe quote fr ths period The ty reserves hight cance this contract wih
stay (0) dys ote a any Hie afte uly 1, 2028

[MEASUREMENT OF QUANTITIES. When payment for a wor item is tobe made on toanage
bass the Coctractor sal fursh the Wastewater Teammen (WWTP) Pat Manager wit legis
copy ofa Hcensed weigmasers certcate showing ros te and net weight of each tuckoad of
smu.

536 BAYMBNT, Stall be made o thi (0) day net ass upon ee of monthly inoies,

a7

am

a8

S181 The Supplier apres to funish all

GENERAL, Freep as dete otherwise la these specications fll compensation for completing
Alo the rk indeed eri scosderod tobe cde in th contact unt pce pale he
‘vars lems of work and no separate payment wil be mae therefore

-EARILAL AND FINAL PAYMENTS, Payment wll be made on «pe ton and pe bl tas as
resid by scale weight of Supliers buck, tale, o connie tre akon 6 weighed on 8
‘otf seal Tare weighs, grote ad at weighs sal e produce by erties

‘Supplier shal subeltesmonthly asic othe Cty of San Mateo, Westater Tete! Pan 2080
‘Dei Deve, Sun Mate, CA SHO. The invoice shal cont the allowing ifomain:

1. Purchase Onder Number
2. em description

3. Copy ofa lo every ng long withthe tons led.
4. Attach erie weg kt for each oad

5 Conia weigh fecha times come price per

GENERAL RESPONSIMILITIES

formation as required by the City in order 10 fll the
respons ofthe Chy fr reporting on compliance with ri rag & scum rues and regulations.

‘82 The Supplier shal kop fly infeed of al exiting opted and amend fer, sate a ocal

Jaws, oninnces, eplaons adore a decrees which in any manner as! those engages
‘enpoyed by Supplier inthe work, or te equipment sed by te Sup, or which nay mane
fect he conduct of the work by Supieand al such odors and decrees of bis or ibaa
having any jurisdic ator over the same: any discrepancy ov incon is dcovered
{nany such lew, odinance regulation, order or decree th Supper sal forth report the ne
{0 he Ciy in weting. The Supplier shall a all ties observe and comply with all such exis,
‘Moped and aneaded laws, ordmares regulations std orders

395 of 1111


--- page 396 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“uly 1, 2028 TO June 30,2028,

5183 The Supplier will be required to fais and update, a pcesay st of telephone manbers snd
rams of response partes tobe called on & 24-hour, 7 days por week basis nthe evet of as
‘snegeny or nasal operating contions.

39 HAULING RESPONSIBILITIES

5.91 The Supple shal renove and haul it og Scum as needed fos the City's wastenate eaten
Plant The gi, rg & scum sul Become the propery of the Supplier at the ine the matrli
‘epost in he Suppl’ recspale, Suppl stall ot coming gira & scam peor fal
‘isp

1392 The Supper shal be response fr ll transportation, oldng an unloading. The Supplier sal
‘sure a cargo boys re completely pty andthe exterior he ruck clean pir to faving the
‘spol desination. The Soper shal be responsibie fer coordination with appropri utoies
to conduc eccepabie unloaling operations to meet oth Cit an uneating se requemens.

1393 The Soper mst have and maintain fr the lf of the contrat l hauling pei, including PUC,
CC and DOT. Copies af required poms are to he submited with the Supplies bid to be
spose

396 The Super mst fish only experince and sil opens an ober personel rsd
isthe responsiblity of the Supple to insare hat ll worker tha he Sapir employs sal ave
proper and vali Iisenses ano carifctons a rele by loa, St, ant Feral a pelo
‘work as esrb inthis conte.» The Super shal athe request he City, supply Poof of
thee lems andor certifications,

395 The Supplier shal responsible for controling ad suing sy oor, pigs, set, veri,
‘ay ear nuisance rng fom his operation. The City shal provide water anda wash down are
‘wich iw be used by the Suppie  kaep the fading sits the Wastewater Tretment Plant
{ed woes clean and fc of spllage Defoe ean the plan. Any spillage oe shcharg of terial
{Ci orpble roads shall be cleand up romp by the Supls reure to len
‘pany spillage or dichargs al cots incre icing Gee and aminitve cos tll be
‘eimbursed bythe Solero withheld frm Super payne

5396 The Supper shall provide wae forall vices se in hating ait, og & sum to compte wash
down Before leaving the disposal site. The fteror of tr, as well a all exerorsutacs,
odin res and ma ap sal be compel sed dont minis tacking of eit a.

sum olf ofthe displ se

3.97 The Supplies show means and ability to provie immedi cleanup of ny splge dig the
trarspoatin ofthe gi rag Scum. Sabet othe provisions hereof concerning hazard we,
the Stl shal ely responsible foal costs asia with the learup oration of ls
‘uring the uansporation of gr ag & scr. In ation wo any ber rege nies the
Sopp shall immetiately not te City by telephone at ($0) 5227380 ofan) spillage o i,
‘rag & sum along th lou and te esimatd tie for eanup to be completed. The Supper
‘Bal provide a waten repr iti five (5) dye denerbing any spillage ince, inlaing ot 8

396 of 1111


--- page 397 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL
“uly 12028 TO June 30,2028,

‘minis, the te, ine an locaton of the sil the amount of material pile the methods wed
to cleanup the pil the aus ofthe pil eps taken fo prevent eecuece of similar pil, and
‘rife tat the sil as been ckaed up fo the sataction of any and all agecies having
jusdcien,

910 HAULING SCHEDULE

5.101 The Suppl sll recive and aul gt rag & scum as aod and must have the expat 10 al
‘wo conanes

«week fom the Ciy's wastewater weaiment pant ules nde by Plant staf a st fork in he
‘SECTION 4, TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS and this Section. The Ciy reserves the ight
‘make mdicstions in thi sched to mos the needs of he Cy

3.11 DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS

3.411 The Supe wl hl and dispose of rt rag cum removed fom the Solids Handing Bling
Im accordance with Reglions st forth by the State of Califia. The Supe responsible fot
‘compliance wit al egulaory ad safety oquemen's

5.112 The Supplier stall be responsible for complying wih ll local, Ste and Feveral repuatory
‘euirements forthe lav dspsa ofthe grit rg scum, aswel wall pertinent regulations of
Federal Stead loa environment avs nd ulations incafing but eine tthe Fede
‘Clean Ale Act and St and loa! a pollu ad noise crinaness. The Supra say to
‘the City thatthe ropsod disposal maha ands lawful by providing, upon rust, specie
‘Socumenatin ferent permits ht prvi forthe ips f rir de scum oncoming
basis trouphou the ref his ageement. All oss assed wih obalaing such pos and
Tresex shal be conidre as nce nthe unt ple

53113 The Supper sal provide ant pata required a cue ist of tes where pit, rg scum ae
‘sing tlsposed of en provide poot of compliance with al Stats, Federal and Local laws led 0
spol Fit ag & su.

514 The Suppliers also siete City hi wil ak a ses) avaliable for the conned
‘ofthe Ciy's gr, ag seum thoughout the tern of he agreement, an shall send etn
emis, provide captalinprvemets or operational eis anak ll er atlons secosary
{the conned uninieriped disposal ofthe grit ag & scum. Federal Regulstins, icing
(CER Parts 257, 28,408 and 503, provide specifi requement for git rag scum posal and
must be complied wit.

3.115 The Supliers make the propose s() aval to receive the gr rag cum at al mes in
accordance with provisions ofthe disposal sites) permit. Any imitans on da, dato ine of
every shall be Mertens do pt meet the City’s ond ity be necessary 0 aj.
Mimaons are wable to be adjstes, ten te Ciy reserves the ight cancel Be eae no
Timitions are shown, tbe the Supplie agresoreceve i ag scum a any tne. Poisons
shal ee made to acept the grt ig & cum during wet weafe prods aswell as dy-weater
periods

2

397 of 1111


--- page 398 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL,
“uly 12025 TO June 30,2028

SECTION 4 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS:

4 GENERAL

an

on

aus

aa

an

43

‘This speciation covers the removal, ecatng and dspos, ineloing transport, hauling,
<sivery and unloading of aprosimately 140 loads of gle rag & se, The Suppliers epied 6
provi flies termed set pos of the gi rag cum,

“The City produces git nd rag twenty-four (24) hours pe day, seven (7) days per weak resulting in
spproxinately 70 fos analy ach month profucsapprsimaely 40 tons ofp rag & cus,
but this quantity may vary from 30 to 70 tons. Te Sopp’ anspor system must have the
capacity to hale he maxim evel oft rag sc ting ek procion periods.

Production ates ay be aid or topped to mach lat operat nad. Operation may lo be
inert occasionally for malmerance op. Advance hace of enipray ines wil
be pven to he Suppir whenever posible

‘The rt rag & cum shal became the property of the Supplier he tine the mata i depose
In the Supplier's recopcie Thorfore, tthe Supliers responsibly 0 risks any and all
sarangencts fr dsposs

“Tee amount of gr, rg & scum to be halo Han estimate nly, There, otc is ery given
‘hat the gen one and nate ote material my change depending on Pat proses cota
tangs.

‘Nominimum gt rag & scam generation rae is garni. However, the sccessfi bie wlbe
ued to dopse af 1086 ofall i, rag Scum hal he City designates for apo prs 10
thls Contac eve if te tu que exceeds the estate.

MAULING FOUIPMENT,

‘The tags & sum are tobe conveyed nto conser inside the Solid Haniting Bung end
fom the Dumpstrseyor bays

Supplier isto provide ak poo conser wth sels and wide splishguards 8 a rgurement for
haling grit, rag scum. Each conaia sal be appropiate a the gt rag cian cearment
tn equipped with covers (canvas or sutaiealteadive materia) Ut canbe securely fastened
rece odors and contin i ag & Seu incase te wralr overs This orc ees ve.
‘ach 20-yard topes roll bins. Each 20-yard pes ole arog four wheels, om eae
‘ach cone, an he flowing dimensions -4'4"X 22° X 873" to accommodate tbe dumpster
commer gen,

All ung ack actos) shal equipped with» backup ala consisting ofa waring brn ot
esp tha wil state nyt the rk in revere, Each vehicle shal be eld with caper,
Shoal, boon, ani ote tools as aecesiy Wao the driver cle vehice a respon ops
crsal ps.

Ey

398 of 1111


--- page 399 ---
42

sas

426

CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
(GRIT RAG & SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL.
“aly 12025 TO June 30,2028,

The Supplier shal be slely responsible forthe conto fs equpmet Al eulent shal be
‘ropedymaiisine. Only equipment good werking contin as judge the City is acetal
‘Tae City may rect plow of equpmen found to bein natty conon or pefomnng
usatisactry work. In the event of any rejection bythe City, the Supper mast remove the
‘usta equlpment and place iwi god and acetal ouipmen immediatly.

"The Supple shal prove the City wth ist of enifcaton namber te weights, nd mami
egal on infor al rag & su hain cotalners, ks, sad aller tingid under
‘hs contact Supls conspicuously mur each rato unit withthe maim lsh
‘weg ofthe unit when loaded and a comespnding “ll ad” nila siete wall guide
Teaing.

‘The City wil not be responsible for los or damage of any equipment or popey owned o operated
by the Sapp, gets, or enployes ono off iy pope Suppl shal rovie insurance
over Cis use of Supliers equlpment in the same manner and atthe sane level as fr the
Supp. The Super sal be resp fr al lel, State nd der ely reuroments
forthe awl anspor of he pi Fag 364,

u

399 of 1111


--- page 400 ---
WATER QUALITY CONTROL PLANT GRIT RAG & 
SCUM HAULING AND DISPOSAL 
 
BID OPENING: May 8, 2025 
 
BID SUMMARY 
 
 
 
 
Compactor Management Company, LLC. 
ITEM 
NO. 
DESCRIPTION OF WORK 
 
UNIT PRICE 
(price per ton) 
TOTAL COST 
1 
Disposal of grit, rag & scum. 
Estimated fourteen hundred (1,400) tons. 
This contract requires five-each 20-yard topless 
roll-off bins. Each 20-yard topless roll off bin 
requires four wheels, one near each corner, and 
the following dimensions – 4’4” X 22’9” X 8’3” 
to accommodate the dumpster conveyor system. 
 
 
 
 
 
$66 
$92,400 
2 
Round trip transportation of two-each twenty 
(20) yard, topless containers. 
Estimated one hundred forty (140) hauls. 
$485 
$67,900 
TOTAL 
$160,300 
 
 
 
             Exhibit B 
Payment Rates
400 of 1111

--- page 401 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 
forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City of 
San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
401 of 1111

--- page 402 ---
Contract for Services Estero (PW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District a 
waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor may acquire against the City by 
virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement 
that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
402 of 1111

--- page 403 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  25
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9980
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025
SUBJECT:
Staff Augmentation Services for the Wastewater Treatment Plant — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 with waterTALENT LLC for staff augmentation services for the wastewater treatment plant in 
the amount of $200,000, for a new total agreement amount of $699,000, and extending the term through June 30, 2026; 
establish a $100,000 contingency reserve; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently constructing a new facility for the liquids treatment portion of the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
(WWTP). The new WWTP facilities are expected to be commissioned in the middle of 2025. In the months leading up to 
the new facility coming online and during actual startup, WWTP staff will need to attend numerous trainings, observe 
clean water testing, and keep both the existing and new WWTP facilities operational for up to a month during the 
transition from the old to the new facilities. This significant increase in demand for WWTP staff’s time and focus is not 
feasible with the quantity of City staff at the WWTP. The operational priority is to ensure WWTP staff are fully trained and 
capable of operating the new facilities during this transitional period. 
To allow staff to focus their time and effort where necessary in support of the startup of the new facilities, in August 2024, 
staff solicited proposals for staff augmentation services to operate and maintain the existing facilities. 
As a result, staff executed an agreement on August 30, 2024, with waterTALENT LLC for staff augmentation services for the 
WWTP for an amount of $99,000, which was expedited to manage the City’s risk of temporarily having WWTP Operations 
staff unavailable due to the potential employee strike from the SEIU Local 521 Maintenance Unit. 
In September 2024, City Council approved Amendment No. 1 to increase the amount of the agreement by $400,000, for a 
new agreement amount of $499,000, to address the anticipated costs associated with the operational startup of the new 
plant facilities. 
Startup of the new WWTP Facility has been delayed and in the interim some of the agreement funds were used to mitigate 
the effects of temporary staffing shortages. Delays in the startup of the new facility have also extended the need for this 
staff augmentation partially into Fiscal Year 2025-26, requiring an extension of the term of the agreement.  
This Amendment No. 2 will increase the overall dollar amount by $200,000 and extend the length of the agreement to 
June 30, 2026.  Staff also recommends establishing a $100,000 contingency reserve to allow for any unforeseen needs 
during the critical startup period of the new WWTP.  
403 of 1111

--- page 404 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the FY 2025-26 WWTP operating budget to cover the cost of this Amendment and the 
contingency reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility that approval of an amendment to provide staff augmentation services may have a significant effect on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7287
404 of 1111

--- page 405 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
WATERTALENT LLC FOR
STAFF AUGMENTATION SERVICES
($99,000 [Original Amount]; $400,000 [Amendment No. 1]; $200,000 [Amendment No. 2])
This Amendment is made and entered into this day of ___________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and waterTalent LLC ("CONSULTANT").
WHEREAS, on August 30, 2024, CITY and CONSULTANT entered into an Agreement for staff 
augmentation services (“Agreement”) in the amount of $99,000; and
WHEREAS, on September 18, 2024, CITY and CONSULTANT executed Amendment No. 1 to 
increase the Agreement amount by $400,000, for a revised total Agreement amount of $499,000; and
              WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to increase the Agreement amount by $200,000, for a 
revised Agreement amount of $699,000, and to extend the term of the Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1. The first sentence of Section 7, “TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION,’’ of the Agreement is 
amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and be completed 
by June 30, 2026.’’ 
2. The first paragraph of Section 8, “PAYMENT,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of 
a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses 
set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified 
time and materials not to exceed $699,000.00. Requests for payments shall be itemized 
and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based 
on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B.”
3. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
405 of 1111

--- page 406 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
CAO Approved June 2024
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and waterTalent LLC have executed this Amendment on 
___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Tyler Reifert
Its Authorized Agent
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nyguen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
406 of 1111

--- page 407 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  26
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-9983
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Purchase of a Telehandler — Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a purchase contract to PAPE Material 
Handling, Inc. for the purchase of a JLG 1055 Telehandler to facilitate Wastewater Treatment Plant and Field Maintenance 
operations in the amount of $182,924.27; establish a contingency reserve amount of $7,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement and any change orders within the contingency amount.  
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Field Maintenance Division removes and disposes of material from the City’s sewer collection system at 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). An eductor was recently put into operation at the WWTP to allow for dumping, 
drying, and hauling of the sewer collection system materials. The WWTP does not currently have the equipment necessary 
to move the material from the eductor into a roll-off bin so that it can be hauled away. 
During the eductor design phase, it was decided that the cost of a new piece of equipment would be shared by the WWTP 
and Field Maintenance Divisions. This contract would allow for the purchase of equipment that would be used to move the 
material and provide other functionality for the WWTP and Field Maintenance Sewer divisions. 
As part of the City’s Green Fleet transition, staff consistently explores electric alternatives during the procurement process 
and aims to procure vehicles with battery electric or alternative-fueled technologies whenever possible. Although the 
market has electric-powered telehandlers, the telehandler required to facilitate the WWTP and Field Maintenance 
Divisions’ operations requires a rated capacity of 10,000 pounds, which is a much higher rated capacity than any of the 
available electric-powered options on the market. 
In its search for a telehandler, City staff evaluated prices from Sourcewell selected vendors as well as direct quotes from 
vendors. Sourcewell is an organization that provides cooperative purchasing by first conducting competitive, public bids 
then selecting vendors to achieve competitive pricing. Staff was able to locate and evaluate Sourcewell selected vendors. 
Staff then reviewed prices for three different brands of telehandlers directly provided by three different vendors. PAPE 
Material Handling, Inc.’s price for the JLG Telehandler was the lowest priced unit among the directly solicited vendors and 
Sourcewell selected vendors.
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing 
procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. The purchase of one JLG 1055 Telehandler from PAPE 
Material Handling is in the best interest of the City because the equipment meets the operational needs of both the 
WWTP and Field Maintenance divisions, and the price offered is the lowest, even in comparison to pricing offered by 
vendors associated with Sourcewell. 
407 of 1111

--- page 408 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Based on the above, staff recommends approval of the purchase contract with PAPE Material Handling, Inc. in an amount 
of $182,924.27, which is inclusive of the $166,863.64 quoted price plus taxes. Staff also recommends establishing a $7,000 
contingency to address any price fluctuations from market instability that may occur between the time the original quote 
was submitted to the time the contract is executed.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are budgeted in the Field Maintenance Sewer and WWTP Maintenance operating budgets to fund this 
purchase and requested contingency amount. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of a Resolution approving this purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a continuing 
maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(2).)  In addition, approval of 
this purchase contract is exempt from CEQA, in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the 
purchase of a telehandler to move material within the Wastewater Treatment Plant as part of its normal operations and to 
support the City’s Field Maintenance Divisions may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Purchase Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
408 of 1111

--- page 409 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2025
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONTRACT TO PAPE MATERIAL 
HANDLING, INC. FOR THE PURCHASE OF A JLG 1055 TELEHANDLER 
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award contracts for the purchase of a JLG 1055 Telehandler 
in the amount of $182,924.27 to facilitate Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and Field Maintenance 
operations; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and 
WHEREAS, Sourcewell is an organization that conducts competitive, public bids to select vendors to 
achieve competitive pricing by leveraging cooperative purchasing; and
WHEREAS, staff also reached out to vendors outside of the Sourcewell to obtain additional competitive 
prices; and
WHEREAS, PAPE Material Handling, Inc.’s price for the JLG Telehandler was found to be the lowest 
priced unit amongst Sourcewell selected vendors and direct quotes received from vendors; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an 
alternative purchasing procedure when it is in the best interest of the City; and 
WHEREAS, the purchase of one JLG 1055 Telehandler from PAPE Material Handling, Inc. is in the best 
interest of the City because the equipment meets the operational needs of both the WWTP and Field 
Maintenance Divisions, and the price offered is the lowest, even in comparison to vendors associated with 
Sourcewell; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends the approval of the purchase contract with 
PAPE Material Handling, Inc. in an amount of $182,924.27, which is inclusive of the $166,863.64 quoted price 
plus taxes, because it is in the best interest of the City without standard competitive bid practice.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
Adoption of this resolution to approve a purchase contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
a continuing maintenance activity involving the purchase of supplies. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(2).)  In addition, approval of this purchase contract is exempt from CEQA, in that it can be seen 
with certainty that there is no possibility that the purchase of a telehandler to move material within the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant as part of its normal operations and to support the City’s Field 
Maintenance Divisions may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3).)
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of the JLG 1055 
Telehandler is in the City’s best interest for these reasons:
409 of 1111

--- page 410 ---
a.
The JLG 1055 Telehandler meets the operational needs of the Public Works Department’s 
WWTP and Field Maintenance Divisions; 
b.
The City obtained competitive pricing from Sourcewell, as well as direct quotes from vendors 
not associated by Sourcewell; 
c.
PAPE Material Handling, Inc. was found to have provided the lowest price for a telehandler 
meeting the City’s operational needs.
3.
The purchase of a JLG 1055 Telehandler in the amount of $182,924.27 from PAPE Material Handling, Inc. 
is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the purchase contract on behalf of the City.
410 of 1111

--- page 411 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 1
Rev 1/24
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR A TELEHANDLER
FROM PAPE MATERIAL HANDLING, INC.
 
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and PAPE Material Handling, Inc., a corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase certain JLG 1055 Telehandler hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these JLG 1055 Telehandler by reason of its 
qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms and 
in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes. Purchase price of the tellehandler is to be 
$182,924.27 inclusive of sales tax.   
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
411 of 1111

--- page 412 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 1
Rev 1/24
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. to 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo.  Transportation charges shall be shown 
as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. The VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive 
expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
412 of 1111

--- page 413 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 1
Rev 1/24
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
413 of 1111

--- page 414 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 1
Rev 1/24
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
414 of 1111

--- page 415 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 1
Rev 1/24
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
VENDOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon 
VENDOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, and 
travel at VENDOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Max Karish
City of San Mateo
2050 Detroit Drive
San Mateo, Ca 94404
To VENDOR:
PAPE Material Handling
Attn: Rick Sanchez 
1975 Arnold Industrial Way
Concord, Ca 94520
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
415 of 1111

--- page 416 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 1
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and PAPE Material Handling, Inc. have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Matt Fabry 
Public Works Director
Date
PAPE Material Handling, Inc.
Tyler Larson
Sales Manager
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
416 of 1111

--- page 417 ---
PAPE MATERIAL HANDLING 
1975 ARNOLD INDUSTRIAL WAY
CONCORD, California 94520 
Phone: 925-521-5400
Quote Number: 2025-1234367
1  of 2
 . 
CUSTOMER DETAILS
CUSTOMER
 City of San Mateo 
ADDRESS
   
SHIP-TO ADDRESS
  
CONTACT NAME
 Mr.    Max Karish 
TITLE
 Sales Representative 
PHONE
   650-522-7312
  
PROPOSED BY
 Rick Sanchez 
TITLE
 Territory Manager 
PHONE
510-737-2521
EMAIL
 rick.sanchez@papemh.com 
DATE
5/7/25
 Quote Expiration  
6/7/25 
 
 
JLG  1055        
Enclosed Cab with heat and NO air conditioning 
 3 ‘ truss boom with winch 
Tires 400/75/28 foam 
Material bucket   72” one  cu yd 
Carriage  std 60”
Pallet forks  2.26x5x60 
Roadlights 
lED work light package  ( Cab and boom )
seat belt assurance and operator presence 
2 YEAR ANNUAL AGREEMENT WARRANTY 
 
417 of 1111

--- page 418 ---
PAPE MATERIAL HANDLING 
1975 ARNOLD INDUSTRIAL WAY
CONCORD, California 94520 
Phone: 925-521-5400
Quote Number: 2025-1234367
2  of 2
Total Investment
   
$166,863.64 + tax delivered 
1
Quoted Quantity  1
See above  
TOTAL:  
$182,924.27   
F.O.B. Factory (factory freight not included). Price is exclusive of any taxes. Due to volatility of supply chain, transportation, lead times etc., we reserve 
the right to revise our pricing in direct correlation to price surcharges/increases received from the OEM. Lease payment quotes are subject to possible 
interest rate indexing at time of delivery. This sales order/proposal is subject to Pape' Material Handling's Terms and Conditions of Sale effective on the 
date hereof, which are incorporated in fullby this reference. The Terms and Conditions of Sale are available at www.pape.com/terms, and will also be 
sent by mail or email to Buyer upon request.
Proposal By:
Rick Sanchez
_____________________________
 
Accepted By:
_____________________________
 
Signature:
 
_____________________________
 
Signature:
_____________________________
 
Date Signed:
_____________________________
 
Date Accepted:
_____________________________
 
PO Number:
_____________________________
 
 
 
 
418 of 1111

--- page 419 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  27
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10001
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Consulting Services — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the On-Call Professional Consultant Services Agreement with Carollo Engineers, Inc. for 
Wastewater Treatment Plant-related services in the amount of $475,000, for a new total agreement of $1,325,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and to amend the 
agreement within the agreement amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order requiring improvements to its 
sewer collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows and 
unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The Clean Water Program 
(CWP) includes several capital improvements that are currently under construction and intended to comply with the 
Cease-and-Desist Order.
As part of the CWP, the City has identified capital improvements needed to maintain and/or improve WWTP reliability, 
performance, and safety (Projects). Staff solicited on-call professional services to support these needs, to include 
alternatives analyses and engineering studies; design services; bid period services; engineering services during 
construction; and operational support. 
On August 15, 2022, City Council awarded two agreements to Carollo Engineers, Inc. (Carollo) and Brown and Caldwell for 
on-call professional consulting services in a total of $400,000. The agreement terms were for three years with up to two 
optional one-year extensions with an additional budget of up to $100,000 per year. 
On October 21, 2024, City Council approved Amendment No. 1 for an additional $450,000 to Carollo’s agreement to fund 
engineering services for additional scope to provide services for the 3-Water Pumping and Ferric Chloride Project and the 
Waste Activated Sludge Thickening Alternatives Analysis Project. Amendment No. 1 increased the total agreement amount 
to $850,000. 
On March 6, 2025, the City issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for the Dewatering System Centrifuges 1 and 2 Project to 
the two on-call consultants, Brown and Caldwell and Carollo. Proposals were received on April 3, 2025. Staff evaluated 
both proposals and determined Carollo as the best qualified consultant to provide the scope of work and expertise 
required for this project. The fee is $614,532 to complete the base scope of services, which includes general project 
management services; basis of design and preliminary design; detailed design and bid services. 
The balance of the Carollo on-call agreement is not sufficient to fund the fee associated with this project and an increase 
419 of 1111

--- page 420 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of $423,429 is needed. Staff also recommends $51,571 to be added to address any unknown or unforeseeable tasks if 
required.
For Carollo to provide engineering services for these tasks, staff recommends approving Amendment No. 2 to increase the 
on-call agreement by $475,000 for a new total agreement of $1,325,000. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available in the Clean Water Program WWTP Annual Major Components (46t090) project budget 
to fund this amendment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed action is exempt from environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), since 
entering on-call professional services agreements is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect significant physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) In addition, on June 6, 
2016, the City Council certified a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 2015032006), 
which serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of the Clean Water Program. On July 
16, 2018, the City approved Addendum 1 to the Final PEIR, and on April 15, 2019, approved Addendum 2. Any resultant 
capital improvement or operations and maintenance-related projects resulting from the on-call professional consulting 
services shall be reviewed on an individual basis or evaluated for consistency with the PEIR and Addenda. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager 
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Tom Williams, Engineering Manager
twilliams@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7307
 
Matthew Fabry, Director of Public Works
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7303
420 of 1111

--- page 421 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND CAROLLO ENGINEERS, INC.
 FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSUTANT SERVICES FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT ON-CALL 
CONSULTING SERVICES
($400,000 [Original Amount], $450,000 [Amendment 1], $475,000 [Amendment 2])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Carollo Engineers, Inc. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for professional consultant services 
(“Agreement”) on September 2, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2024, CITY and CONSULTANT executed Amendment No. 1 to the 
Agreement to increase the Agreement amount by $450,000 and include additional scope; and 
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to amend the total 
compensation amount by $475,000, for a new Agreement not to exceed total of $1,325,000.
 NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1.
The first paragraph of Section 8, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses set 
forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and 
materials not to exceed $1,325,000 without prior written authorization. Requests for 
payments shall be itemized and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit 
A and shall be based on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
421 of 1111

--- page 422 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CAROLLO ENGINEERS, INC. have executed this 
Amendment on ___________________ .
CITY OF SAN MATEO                                             CONSULTANT
                                                                                                Carollo Engineers, Inc.
_____________________                                   ___________________
Matt Fabry                                                              its Authorized Agent 
              Public Works Director                                           Rick Chan
                                                                                                Senio Vice President 
Date:__________________                                 Date:_______________
APPROVED AS TO FORM                                     Carollo Engineers, Inc
_____________________                                  ______________________
               Linh P. Nguyen                                                       Michael Barnes
               Assistant City Attorney                                         Corporate Secretary                                
422 of 1111

--- page 423 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  28
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 25-10003
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Marina Branch Public Library Restoration Project – Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with DL Falk Construction, Inc. for construction of the Marina Branch Public Library Restoration 
Project in the amount of $5,405,000; establish a contingency reserve for said agreement in the amount of $540,500; 
approve an agreement with Consor PMCM, Inc. for construction management services for the Marina Branch Public 
Library Restoration Project in the amount of $824,900; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements 
in substantially the form presented, issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents, and approve change 
orders within the construction agreement contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Marina Branch Public Library Restoration Project (Project) will implement critical improvements, including foundation 
stabilization with new helical piles and grade beams, re-leveling of the existing foundation and structures, and compliance 
with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. Additional improvements encompass the replacement of 
entrance and egress ramps, site drainage improvements, deck replacement, lighting (external and indoor), flooring, roof 
replacement, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, plumbing improvements, fire sprinkler and 
alarm systems, and electrical system replacement. 
The City entered into an agreement with Siegel & Strain Architects in July 2023 to design the Project and the design was 
completed in April 2025. The design includes two (2) additive bid items: (A) to fabricate and install a bookworm sculpture, 
and; (B) to fully remove and replace stucco along the exterior of the building. The Architect’s estimate for the base bid and 
additive bid items was $5,000,000. 
Construction Agreement
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.030, a competitive public process was used to obtain bids for the Project. 
A Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals was issued to advertise the Project on April 25, 2025. On the May 22, 2025, bid opening 
date, three (3) bids were received. 
Contractor
Base Bid Amount
Additive Bid 
Item A
Additive Bid 
Item B
Total Bid 
Amount
DL Falk Construction, Inc.
$5,325,000
$30,000
$50,000
$5,405,000
Marcon Builders
$5,511,076
$24,805
$45,923
$5,581,803
California Plus Engineering, Inc.
$5,815,000
$150,000
$180,000
$6,145,000
Per the Contract Book, bids were compared based on the total bid amount, which includes the Base Bid plus Additive Bid 
Items A and B. 
423 of 1111

--- page 424 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff reviewed the lowest bid submitted by DL Falk Construction, Inc., and determined that DL Falk Construction, Inc. is the 
lowest responsive, responsible bidder. Staff recommends City Council award the Agreement to DL Falk Construction, Inc. 
inclusive of the scopes of Additive Bid Items A and B. In addition, staff recommends a 10 percent contingency be 
established given potential unforeseen site conditions, the complexity of performing a retrofit project, and caution that 
will need to be exercised due to the project’s proximity to Seal Slough. 
Construction is anticipated to commence in the summer of 2025 with completion in spring of 2027, resulting in an 
approximately 16-month temporary closure of the library. Staff are implementing outreach to inform the community and 
library patrons.
Construction Management Agreement 
The City issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for Construction Management, Inspection, and Hazardous Materials 
Compliance Services for the Project on February 26, 2025. On the April 4, 2025, deadline to submit proposals, one (1) 
proposal was received from Consor PMCM, Inc. (Consor). Staff reviewed the proposal, interviewed Consor, and 
determined the firm’s proposal to be satisfactory based on the Project team’s experience with similar projects and 
comprehensive project approach to meet the goals of the RFP. 
Consor will be providing construction management and inspection services that include oversight of the contractor, review 
of construction documents such as submittals, change orders, progress payments and requests for information, adherence 
to schedule, and coordination with City and design staff. They will also monitor the contractor’s hazardous materials 
handling and verify compliance with CEQA measures that stem from the project’s proximity to Seal Slough and potential 
sensitive habitats. 
Staff recommends entering into a contract with Consor to perform the construction management services for this Project 
for an amount not to exceed $824,900.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Currently, sufficient funds are not available in the Marina Library Structural Improvements (665100) project account 
budget to approve the construction agreement; however, the remaining funding needs to sufficiently cover the full cost of 
the agreement and recommended contingency have been requested through the 5-year Capital Improvement Program 
budget development process and will be available under the Marina Library Structural Improvements (665100) project 
pending approval and adoption of the Fiscal Year 2025-26 budget. Sufficient funds are available in the project account to 
approve the construction management contract with Consor.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval of these Agreements is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, 
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement for Construction
Att 2 – Agreement for Construction Management
STAFF CONTACT
424 of 1111

--- page 425 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Karen Cornejo, Assistant Engineer
kcornejo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
425 of 1111

--- page 426 ---
Contract
This public works contract (“Contract”) is entered into by and between the City of San Mateo (“City”) and 
DL Falk Construction, Inc. (“Contractor”), for work on the Marina Branch Public Library Restoration 
Project (“Project”).
The parties agree as follows:
1.
Award of Contract.  In response to the Notice Inviting Bids, Contractor has submitted a Bid 
Proposal to perform the Work to construct the Project. On June 16, 2025, City authorized award of 
this Contract to Contractor for the amount set forth in Section 4, below. City has elected to include 
the following Project alternate(s) in the Contract: Additive Bid Alternate A and Additive Bid Alternate 
B.
2.
Contract Documents.  The Contract Documents incorporated into this Contract include those 
within the Contract Book, and inclusive of the documents listed below. The definitions provided in 
Article 1 of the General Conditions apply to all of the Contract Documents, including this Contract.
2.1
Notice Inviting Bids; 
2.2
Instructions to Bidders; 
2.3
Addenda, if any; 
2.4
Bid Proposal and attachments thereto; 
2.5
Contract; 
2.6
Payment and Performance Bonds;
2.7
General Conditions; 
2.8
Special Conditions; 
2.9
Project Plans and Specifications, including Technical Specifications;
2.10
Change Orders, if any;
2.11
Notice of Potential Award;
2.12
Notice to Proceed; and
2.13
The following: 
Appendix A; Appendix B
3.
Contractor’s Obligations.  Contractor will perform all of the Work required for the Project, as 
specified in the Contract Documents. Contractor must provide, furnish, and supply all things 
necessary and incidental for the timely performance and completion of the Work, including all 
necessary labor, materials, supplies, tools, equipment, transportation, onsite facilities, and utilities, 
unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents. Contractor must use its best efforts to 
diligently prosecute and complete the Work in a professional and expeditious manner and to meet 
or exceed the performance standards required by the Contract Documents.
4.
Payment.  As full and complete compensation for Contractor’s timely performance and completion 
of the Work in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of the Contract Documents, City will 
pay Contractor $5,405,000 (“Contract Price”) for all of Contractor’s direct and indirect costs to 
perform the Work, including all labor, materials, supplies, equipment, taxes, insurance, bonds and 
all overhead costs, in accordance with the payment provisions in the General Conditions.
5.
Time for Completion.  Contractor will fully complete the Work for the Project, meeting all 
requirements for Final Completion, within 320 working days from the start date set forth in the 
Notice to Proceed, and 80 working days for the plant establishment maintenance period.(“Contract 
Time”). By signing below, Contractor expressly waives any claim for delayed early completion.
6.
Liquidated Damages.  As further specified in Section 5.4 of the General Conditions, if Contractor 
fails to complete the Work within the Contract Time, City will assess liquidated damages in the 
426 of 1111

--- page 427 ---
amount of $1,200 per day for each day of unexcused delay in achieving Final Completion, and such 
liquidated damages may be deducted from City’s payments due or to become due to Contractor 
under this Contract. 
7.
Labor Code and Minimum Wage Compliance.  
7.1
General.  This Contract is subject to all applicable requirements of Chapter 1 of Part 7 of 
Division 2 of the Labor Code, including requirements pertaining to wages, working hours 
and workers’ compensation insurance, as further specified in Article 9 of the General 
Conditions.  
7.2
Prevailing Wages.  This Project is subject to the prevailing wage requirements applicable 
to the locality in which the Work is to be performed for each craft, classification or type of 
worker needed to perform the Work, including employer payments for health and welfare, 
pension, vacation, apprenticeship and similar purposes. Copies of these prevailing rates 
are available online at http://www.dir.ca.gov/DLSR.
7.3
DIR Registration.  City may not enter into the Contract with a bidder without proof that the 
bidder and its Subcontractors are registered with the California Department of Industrial 
Relations to perform public work pursuant to Labor Code § 1725.5, subject to limited legal 
exceptions.
7.4
Minimum Wage. Bidder agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage
ordinance as codified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs
from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
Contractor and its Subcontractors are required to pay the higher of the currently
applicable state prevailing wage rates or City minimum wage.
8.
Workers’ Compensation Certification.  Pursuant to Labor Code § 1861, by signing this Contract, 
Contractor certifies as follows: “I am aware of the provisions of Labor Code § 3700 which require 
every employer to be insured against liability for workers’ compensation or to undertake self-
insurance in accordance with the provisions of that code, and I will comply with such provisions 
before commencing the performance of the Work on this Contract.”
9. 
Conflicts of Interest.  Contractor, its employees, Subcontractors, and agents may not have, 
maintain, or acquire a conflict of interest in relation to this Contract in violation of any City ordinance 
or requirement, or in violation of any California law, including Government Code § 1090 et seq., or 
the Political Reform Act, as set forth in Government Code § 81000 et seq. and its accompanying 
regulations. Any violation of this Section constitutes a material breach of the Contract.
10.
Independent Contractor.  Contractor is an independent contractor under this Contract and will have 
control of the Work and the means and methods by which it is performed. Contractor and its 
Subcontractors are not employees of City and are not entitled to participate in any health, retirement, or 
any other employee benefits from City.
11.
Notice.  Any notice, billing, or payment required by or pursuant to the Contract Documents must be 
made in writing, signed, dated, and sent to the other party by personal delivery, U.S. Mail, a reliable 
overnight delivery service, or by email as a PDF file. Notice is deemed effective upon delivery, 
except that service by U.S. Mail is deemed effective on the second working day after deposit for 
delivery. Notice for each party must be given as follows:
City:
City of San Mateo
Public Works Department
330 W. 20th Avenue
427 of 1111

--- page 428 ---
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: (650) 522-7300
Attn: Karen Cornejo, Desmond Chan, Jimmy Vo
Email: kcornejo@cityofsanmateo.org
dchan@cityofsanmateo.org
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org 
Contractor:
Name: DL Falk Construction, Inc.
Address: 3526 Investment Boulevard
City/State/Zip: Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: (510) 887-6500
Attn: David T. Falk
Email: davet@dlfalk.com
12.
General Provisions.
12.1
Assignment and Successors.  Contractor may not assign its rights or obligations under 
this Contract, in part or in whole, without City’s written consent. This Contract is binding on 
Contractor’s and City’s lawful heirs, successors and permitted assigns.
12.2
Third Party Beneficiaries.  There are no intended third party beneficiaries to this Contract.
12.3
Governing Law and Venue.  This Contract will be governed by California law and venue 
will be in the San Mateo County Superior Court, and no other place. Contractor waives any 
right it may have pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 394, to file a motion to transfer any 
action arising from or relating to this Contract to a venue outside of San Mateo County, 
California.
12.4
Amendment.  No amendment or modification of this Contract will be binding unless it is in 
a writing duly authorized and signed by the parties to this Contract.
12.5
Integration.  This Contract and the Contract Documents incorporated herein, including 
authorized amendments or Change Orders thereto, constitute the final, complete, and 
exclusive terms of the agreement between City and Contractor.
12.6
Severability.  If any provision of the Contract Documents is determined to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions of the Contract 
Documents will remain in full force and effect.
12.7
Iran Contracting Act.  If the Contract Price exceeds $1,000,000, Contractor certifies, by 
signing below, that it is not identified on a list created under the Iran Contracting Act, Public 
Contract Code § 2200 et seq. (the “Act”), as a person engaging in investment activities in 
Iran, as defined in the Act, or is otherwise expressly exempt under the Act.
12.8
Authorization.  Each individual signing below warrants that he or she is authorized to do 
so by the party that he or she represents, and that this Contract is legally binding on that 
party. If Contractor is a corporation, signatures from two officers of the corporation are 
required pursuant to California Corporations Code § 313.
[Signatures are on the following page.]
428 of 1111

--- page 429 ---
The parties agree to this Contract as witnessed by the signatures below:
CITY:
Approved as to form:
s/_______________________________
s/__________________________________
________________________________
___________________________________
Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney 
Date: ___________________________
Date: ______________________________
Attest:
s/_______________________________
_________________________________
Date: ___________________________
CONTRACTOR: ___________________________________________________
  DL Falk Construction, Inc.
s/_______________________________ 
Seal:
_________________________________
David T. Falk, Vice President
Date: ____________________________
Second Signature (See Section 12.8):
s/_______________________________
_________________________________
Heidi Diep, Controller
Date: ____________________________
683837 - 01/31/2026
Contractor’s California License Number(s) and Expiration Date(s)
END OF CONTRACT
429 of 1111

--- page 430 ---
Professional Services
Page 1 of 15
Rev 12/23
AGREEMENT WITH CONSOR PMCM, Inc.
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR 
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT FOR 
MARINA BRANCH PUBLIC LIBRARY RESTORATION PROJECT
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Consor PMCM, Inc. a California corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1663 
Mission Street, Suite #425 San Francisco, California 94103.
RECITALS:
A.  CITY desires certain construction management and inspection services hereinafter 
described.
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these construction management and 
inspection services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
430 of 1111

--- page 431 ---
Professional Services
Page 2 of 15
Rev 12/23
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the date of execution 
and be completed on June 30, 2027.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $824,900, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. Any reuse of documents outside the scope of work for which 
it was developed, or any alteration thereof without Consultant review and approval shall be at City’s 
sole risk and without liability to Consultant.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
431 of 1111

--- page 432 ---
Professional Services
Page 3 of 15
Rev 12/23
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all third-party claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out 
of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend (except with respect to 
professional negligence), City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any 
such claims. The Consultant’s obligation to defend professional negligence claims is limited to 
reimbursement of expenditure, including reasonable attorneys fees and costs, incurred by the City, in 
defending claims or lawsuits, ultimately determined to be due to negligent acts or omissions of the 
Consultant or any of its officers, employees or subcontractors. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify 
shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
432 of 1111

--- page 433 ---
Professional Services
Page 4 of 15
Rev 12/23
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work with the 
care and skill ordinarily used by members of the profession practicing under similar circumstances at 
the same time and in the same locality, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The 
acceptance of CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said 
obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
433 of 1111

--- page 434 ---
Professional Services
Page 5 of 15
Rev 12/23
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Karen Cornejo
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
Consor PMCM, Inc.
Attn:  Steve Patterson
1663 Mission Street, Suite #425 
San Francisco, California 94103 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
434 of 1111

--- page 435 ---
Professional Services
Page 6 of 15
Rev 12/23
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
435 of 1111

--- page 436 ---
Professional Services
Page 7 of 15
Rev 12/23
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Consor Engineers, Inc. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Matt Fabry
Director of Public Works
Date
Ismael Pugeda
Its Authorized Agent
Senior Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Matthew Cass
Senior Vice President
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
436 of 1111

--- page 437 ---
Professional Services
Page 8 of 15
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Task 1 – Construction Management and General Inspection
CONSULTANT shall provide the construction management and general inspection services outlined 
below.
•
Provide administrative support including, but not limited to, maintaining project files, 
convening necessary meetings, providing meeting notes, monthly progress reports, 
photographic documentation, pay application reviews/negotiations and on-site observation. 
•
Provide, administer, and manage Project communication and documentation until Final 
Completion.
•
Monitor Erosion Control BMP’s and environmentally sensitive area fencing installation and 
maintenance. Verify construction operations do not go past the top of bank. Verify construction 
waste and materials does not enter Seal Slough.
•
Review scheduled submittals and provide schedule management support.
•
Provide close-out support including furniture, fixtures and equipment installations, move-in 
coordination, punch list management, O&M manuals, as-built reference documentation review, 
final release of retention pay review and warranty work management.
•
Ensure all permits are pulled and inspections are conducted.
•
Act as construction project coordinator and the point of contact for all communications and 
interaction with the contractor, affected local agencies, design team, utility companies, City 
staff, members of the Public and other firms performing work. 
•
Review and monitor the construction schedule. Prepare weekly reports documenting the 
progress of construction. Take photographs and videotape recordings of the construction 
progress on a regular basis.
•
Schedule, manage, perform and document all field and laboratory testing services as provided 
in project specifications.
•
Coordination with the design team.
•
Evaluate, negotiate, recommend, and prepare change orders.
•
Prepare and recommend progress payments.
•
Identify potential claims and make recommendations to resolve said claims.
•
Perform field inspection activities, monitor contractor’s performance and enforce all 
requirements of applicable codes, specifications, and contract drawings.
•
Oversee the design clarification process.
•
Oversee quality control and materials testing.
•
Provide final punch-list inspection services and project closeout activities, including preparation 
of the final construction project report.
•
Turn over all construction documents to the City, including As-Builts.
•
All reports, calculations, measurements, test data and other documentation shall be prepared 
on forms specified by or otherwise acceptable to the City.
•
Daily reports, extra work diaries, materials testing reports, and other reports shall be submitted 
to the City. 
437 of 1111

--- page 438 ---
Professional Services
Page 9 of 15
Rev 12/23
Task 1 Deliverables: 
•
Meeting notes.
•
Documention for all field and laboratory testing services as provided in project specifications.
•
Daily inspection reports, extra work diaries, materials testing reports and other reports.
o
Daily inspection reports to include trades/subcontractors on site, work performed, and 
photos in PDF format.
•
Weekly and monthly progress reports documenting the progress of construction. 
•
Written review response for submittals, RFIs, change orders, progress payments.
•
Photo and video documentation.
•
Final punchlist and construction documents, including As-Builts.
Task 2 – Special Inspections
CONSULTANT shall perform and coordinate the following special inspections:
•
Perform all special inspections, with the exception of the geotechnical and soils special 
inspections, as required by the 2022 California Building Code (CBC) Chapter 17. The special 
inspections shall be performed by an approved agency in accordance with 2022 CBC, Chapter 
17, the statement of special inspections as required by 2022 CBC Sections 1704.2.3 and 1704.3 
for building structural elements, and as outlined in the Project Plans. 
•
Coordinate all special inspections related to geotechnical and soils construction that will be 
completed by a separate firm. 
Task 2 Deliverables:
•
Special inspection documentation and testing reports. Special inspection schedule to align with 
contractor schedule.
Task 3 – Environmental Services
CONSULTANT SHALL provide qualified staff required for compliance with standard measures from the 
Marina Branch Library Restoration California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Categorical Exemption.
1.
A qualified Biologist shall perform preconstruction/pre-disturbance surveys to ensure that 
no nests of migratory will be disturbed during project implementation.
2.
A Qualified Biologist shall provide Worker Environmental Awareness Training to all 
personnel involved in construction adjacent to Seal Slough. The training shall include, at a 
minimum, a review of the aquatic animals and plants, and sensitive habitats, that could be 
found in or downslope from work areas; measures to avoid and minimize adverse effects on 
those resources; and a review of all conditions and requirements of environmental permits.
Task 3 Deliverables:
•
Preconstruction and predisturbance surveys.
•
Worker environmental awareness training documentation and attendance.
Task 4 – Hazardous Materials Compliance
CONSULTANT shall provide qualified personnel for coordination for regulatory compliance for removal, 
containment, abatement, and disposal of hazardous materials including regulated asbestos containing 
materials, lead containing paints, PCB’s, mercury containing fluorescent light tubes or ballast mercury 
438 of 1111

--- page 439 ---
Professional Services
Page 10 of 15
Rev 12/23
switches, equipment or systems that may contain Freon or other fluorocarbons, or smoke detectors 
which may contain a radioactive element.  Services to be provided shall include, but are not limited to: 
1.
Specification requirements - Verify the contractor complies to the Requirements for 
Disturbance of Lead in Construction specifications, Asbestos Requirements specifications, 
and Other Hazardous Materials specifications.
2.
Pre-Abatement and Post-Abatement Submittal Review - Review of all contractor submittals 
related to asbestos and lead abatement, including work plans, safety procedures, and 
material specifications, verify that each submittal complies with applicable regulations and 
project specifications before work begins, and provide written recommendations for 
adjustments required to address any noted discrepancies or issues. After the abatement 
work is completed, review all final submittals, including clearance testing results and project 
closeout documents, confirm that the abatement work has been completed in accordance 
with the approved specifications and that all necessary documentation is in order.
3.
Air Monitoring - provide oversight and approval of perimeter air monitoring during the 
abatement of asbestos and lead-containing materials. Ensure that airborne contaminant 
levels are monitored throughout the abatement process to protect workers and public 
safety and to confirm that air quality remains within regulatory limits. 
a. Coordinate with abatement contractor to set up air monitoring stations at strategic 
locations around the perimeter of the work area.  
b. Oversee the real-time air monitoring process, ensuring that samples are collected 
according to regulatory standards and project specifications. This includes verifying that 
the correct sampling methods and equipment are used. 
4.
Data Review and Approval – Ship samples to a laboratory with a 24-hour turnaround time. 
Review the air monitoring results upon receipt to ensure that they are within acceptable 
regulatory limits, and if the results indicate elevated levels, work with the contractor to 
address the issue and determine if additional controls or sampling are needed.
5.
Lead Wipe Sampling for Reoccupation - Conduct lead wipe sampling on key surfaces, 
including windowsills and floors, in the affected areas.  Use standardized methods to collect 
samples, which are then analyzed in a certified laboratory to determine lead dust levels.
a. Regulatory Compliance – CONSULTANT shall ensure that lead levels are below the 
regulatory limit of 10 micrograms per square foot. If levels are found to be above this 
threshold, additional cleaning and re-sampling may be necessary until the area meets 
safety standards.
Task 4 Deliverables:
•
Written review responses for pre-abatement and post-abatement submittal reviews.
•
Written responses of review of air monitoring results.
•
Detailed report of the lead sampling results, along with any regulatory standards and methods 
for re-cleaning or for further action, if needed.
439 of 1111

--- page 440 ---
Professional Services
Page 11 of 15
Rev 12/23
Task 5 – General Consulting Services
CONSULTANT shall provide limited general consulting services to additionally support the City with 
construction management, general inspection, special inspection, environmental services, and/or 
hazardous materials compliance. 
Consultant shall request the City’s written authorization prior to commencing with any 
services as part of Task 5.
    
Task 5 Deliverables: 
•
To be determined.  
440 of 1111

--- page 441 ---
Professional Services
Page 12 of 15
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT B
FEE RATES
Title
Regular Rate
Overtime Rate
Project Manager 
$250
$250
Assistant Project Manager 
$175
$262.50
Office Engineer 
$130
$195
Construction Inspector 
$180
$270
On-Call Scheduler 
$200
$200
Senior Engineer/Helical 
Pile SME 
$250
$250
Special Inspector 
(Subconsultant)
See below.
See below.
All Subconsultants are cost + 5%.
All overtime work and use of overtime rates require written City authorization prior to commencement 
of overtime work.
Special Inspector Fee Rates
441 of 1111

--- page 442 ---
Professional Services
Page 13 of 15
Rev 12/23
442 of 1111

--- page 443 ---
Professional Services
Page 14 of 15
Rev 12/23
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate.
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
443 of 1111

--- page 444 ---
Professional Services
Page 15 of 15
Rev 12/23
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
444 of 1111

--- page 445 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  29
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-10006
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Traffic Signal Modification at Poplar Avenue and Humboldt Street — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Phoenix Electric Company for construction of the Traffic Signal Modification at Poplar Avenue 
and Humboldt Street in the amount of $367,000; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $55,000; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as 
allowed by the contract documents and within the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The City adopted its first Local Roadway Safety Plan (LRSP) in May 2024. The LRSP analyzes traffic safety performance and 
crash patterns and recommends strategic and proven solutions to improve safety performance at priority locations 
citywide. After a year of community engagement and review by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) and 
City Council, the adopted LRSP is a data-driven plan focused on improving safety. In addition to adopting the plan, City 
Council directed staff to prioritize implementing the top 10 priority projects identified in the plan. 
Project Scope
The LRSP identified the intersection of Poplar Avenue and Humboldt Street (Project) as the third highest-priority location 
in the City in need of safety improvements. It is the highest priority location that is within the City's jurisdiction, with the 
top two locations being on El Camino Real and subject to Caltrans’ jurisdiction. This Project improves safety by reducing 
conflict points between turning cars and people walking or driving, giving pedestrians a head start to cross, improving 
visibility with better lighting and signal upgrades, helping emergency vehicles move through more easily, and making 
crosswalk ramps easier and safer to use.
The Project will execute the improvements identified in the LRSP which includes modifying the signal system to add 
protected left turns in all directions, leading pedestrian intervals, new signal heads with upgraded high visibility back 
plates, emergency vehicle preemption (EVP) for Poplar Avenue (EVP already exists on Humboldt Street), and accessible 
pedestrian signals. The Project will also reconfigure the intersection safety lighting and move some utility boxes out of 
pedestrian ramp surfaces. The Project will accomplish these improvements without changing any existing vehicle lane 
configurations or removing any on-street parking. The Engineer’s Estimate for the project is $406,200.
Outreach
In addition to the year of engagement to the community, SIC, and City Council as part of the LRSP, staff distributed 
informational mailers to residents near the project site in May 2025. Staff also delivered a presentation for the Project at 
the College Park Elementary campus in Spring 2025 as part of a construction update meeting conducted in collaboration 
with the San Mateo-Foster City Unified School District.
445 of 1111

--- page 446 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Project Bid
The Project was advertised on April 3, 2025, and a total of seven (7) bids were received and opened on May 1, 2025. The 
bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount. 
CONTRACTOR
BID AMOUNT
Phoenix Electric Company
$367,000
St. Francis Electric, LLC
$386,670
Ray’s Electric
$418,185
Tennyson Electric, LLC
$441,500
Bear Electrical Solutions, LLC
$458,000
Mike Brown Electric Company
$474,840
Liffey Electric
$535,000
Based on a review of the bids received, staff recommends Council award the agreement to Phoenix Electric Company as 
the lowest responsive, responsible bidder.
Staff also recommends a $55,000 contingency (approximately 15 percent of contract value) to be established because the 
Project is replacing four large traffic signal mast arm poles at a busy intersection near a freeway ramp and two schools, and 
the schedule is expected to coincide with construction at the College Park Elementary School site. These factors create a 
high level of complexity for the Project with greater potential for unforeseen circumstances.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in Poplar Avenue/Humboldt Street Signal Modify - Left Turn (460049) project to award this 
agreement in the amount of $367,000 and establish a contingency reserve of $55,000.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Mike Kato, Associate Engineer
mkato@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7377
446 of 1111

--- page 447 ---
AGREEMENT WITH PHOENIX ELECTRIC COMPANY 
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
FOR 
TRAFFIC SIGNAL MODIFICATION AT POPLAR AVENUE AND HUMBOLDT STREET 
CITY PROJECT NO. 17017 
 
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called "City") and 
PHOENIX ELECTRIC COMPANY, a California Corporation, with offices at 1350 Van Dyke Ave, San Francisco, 
CA 94124 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ____________________.   
 
RECITALS: 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and improvements or 
other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement. 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter described. 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction of the 
improvements hereinafter described to Contractor. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled: 
 
Traffic Signal Modification at Poplar Avenue and Humboldt Street 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 17017 
 
2. 
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of Three Hundred Sixty Seven 
Thousand Dollars ($367,000) in full payment for the work set forth above. 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described in the 
Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set 
forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as described 
in the Contract Book. 
 
3. 
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this Agreement; the 
Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which includes the Special 
Provisions, Revised Standard Specifications dated April 16, 2021, and Contract Drawings, the State of 
California Standard Specifications 2018 Edition, the State of California Department of Transportation 
Standard Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter 
referred to as the “contract documents”). 
 
447 of 1111

--- page 448 ---
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract documents.  
The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject 
matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, representations, warranties and agreements 
between the parties hereto, or any of them, pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only 
by written agreement signed by all of the parties hereto. 
 
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so that any 
work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any portion of this Agreement and 
any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. The precedence of the remaining contract 
documents will be as specified in the Contract Book. 
 
4. 
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the Contract 
Book. 
 
5. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall immediately give 
written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties shall have the right to take over 
and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of 
termination, do not give City written notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days 
after notice to City of such election, City may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by 
contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and 
the sureties shall be liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, 
City may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and necessary 
therefor. 
 
6. 
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. Contractor 
shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week from any person 
employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess work is compensated for at not 
less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for 
each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or 
permitted to labor more than 8 hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation 
of the provisions of Sections 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California. 
 
7. 
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the 
State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all craftsmen and 
laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who work or provide any 
services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or 
other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective 
crafts and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site. It is understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine 
the correct scale. Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or 
defects in the materials in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale 
then in force. Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776. 
 
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 
5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
8. 
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all 
contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as required by 
448 of 1111

--- page 449 ---
regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of 
Industrial Relations. 
 
9. 
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years thereafter 
the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement. 
 
10. Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out 
of Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of City’s active 
negligence, sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The 
above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or 
otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision 
that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or 
actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by 
the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators 
listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, 
or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party. 
No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum 
time is extended by the parties. 
 
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not in 
limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, postage 
prepaid.  
 
a. 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature block as 
shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the plural and 
vice versa. 
449 of 1111

--- page 450 ---
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon shall be 
governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The parties agree that 
any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued in the County of San Mateo. 
 
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract documents are 
intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, modify, or place any 
construction on any provisions. 
 
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed to 
constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to constitute either party 
as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind the other in any manner 
unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
 
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be valid as to its other 
provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be concluded from the circumstances 
that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, the parties would not have entered into the 
contract documents. The parties shall use all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts 
found to be null and void with provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their 
original intention. 
 
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, or of any 
power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection by the City or its 
authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance 
of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the City or its 
authorized agents or representatives. 
 
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at least of the 
quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract documents, and, if no quality is 
specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in 
facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the 
work will conform to the requirements of the contract documents. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
450 of 1111

--- page 451 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and PHOENIX ELECTRIC COMPANY have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Matt Fabry, PE 
Public Works Director 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
David Lau 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
451 of 1111

--- page 452 ---
Exhibit A  
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five years thereafter, insurance 
against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the 
performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury 
and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location 
(ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
2. 
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
3. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or 
disease.  
4.  
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) coverage 
form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance penalty provisions. 
5. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
6. 
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
 
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the City. 
Self-Insured Retentions  
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the 
contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its 
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to 
the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. 
The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by 
either the named insured or City. 
Other Insurance Provisions  
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1. 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 
38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
2. 
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, 
employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it.  
3. 
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
with notice to the City. 
452 of 1111

--- page 453 ---
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction coverage. Such 
coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest may appear. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an Installation Floater may be 
acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that provides for the improvement, 
remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery 
and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for any building, 
structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, 
including during transit, installation, and testing at the City’s site. 
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies) 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. 
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the contract or 
the beginning of contract work. 
2. 
Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five years after 
completion of contract work.  
3. 
If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a 
retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must purchase 
extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five years after completion of contract work.  
4. 
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
5. 
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution 
Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services involve mold 
identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, 
and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
 
Acceptability of Insurers  
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
Waiver of Subrogation  
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be 
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a 
waiver of subrogation in favor of the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and 
subcontractors.  
Verification of Coverage  
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory 
endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy 
of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work 
begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, at any time.     
Subcontractors  
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements stated 
herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. 
For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
Surety Bonds  
453 of 1111

--- page 454 ---
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. 
Bid bond 
2. 
Performance bond 
3. 
Payment bond 
4. 
Maintenance bond 
 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the Performance 
Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If the warranty period 
specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is 
required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the 
State of California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
454 of 1111

--- page 455 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  30
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 41-4678
File ID: 25-9788
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
East 3rd Avenue Landfill Hydrogen Sulfide Monitoring – Agreement Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $95,000 from the unassigned balance of the Landfill Fund to the Public Works operating 
budget; approve Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement with Stearns Conrad and Schmidt Consulting, Inc. dba SCS Engineers 
for monitoring and reporting services for hydrogen sulfide at the landfill in the amount of $57,650, for a new agreement 
total of $107,405; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $9,300; extend the term of the Agreement until 
December 31, 2026; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented and future amendments within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Department of Public Works administers professional service agreements for environmental monitoring and 
reporting services at the closed East Third Avenue Landfill to fulfill post-closure directives from the San Mateo County 
Environmental Health Services (County). Waste Discharge Requirements require monitoring and reporting for 30 years 
following the closure of the landfill. Stearns Conrad and Schmidt Consulting, Inc. dba SCS Engineers (SCS) provides 
groundwater and leachate monitoring and reporting, landfill cover inspections, survey of landfill surface and preparing iso-
settlement maps, landfill gas monitoring and reporting, operation and maintenance of the City’s combustible gas 
monitoring system, and on-call additional consulting services, as needed.
On July 29, 2024, the Department of Public Works awarded SCS an agreement in the amount of $49,775 to perform 
investigation work in the upland wetland area of the closed East 3rd Avenue Landfill to locate the source of hydrogen 
sulfide gas (H2S) and odor issues. Under this agreement, SCS provided document review, collection of liquid samples, H2S 
sampling and monitoring, biological assessment, and a ground penetrating radar survey. 
Additional investigation work is necessary and requires permits from several regulatory agencies. The scope of work for 
Amendment No. 1 includes meetings with regulators, staff, and the permitting subcontractor (LSA). SCS will also provide 
local enforcement agency notifications for work that extends into the toe of the existing landfill slope adjacent to the 
identified odor source area upon receipt of approved permits. 
Additional investigation and potential remediation costs are anticipated in FY 2025-26. The permitting effort included as 
part of Amendment No. 1 is necessary to advance additional investigation and possible remediation efforts. The proposed 
Capital Improvement Program Budget for FY 2025-26 includes an estimated $120,000 to support investigation and 
remediation. 
This work is necessary to advance quickly in order to investigate the source of H2S and odor issues. SCS has provided 
monitoring and reporting for the landfill for the last eight years and has consistently demonstrated a high level of 
455 of 1111

--- page 456 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
responsiveness, technical expertise, and client advocacy. SCS has a proven track record in helping the City meet all 
regulatory requirements and deadlines and reducing overall landfill monitoring costs and liabilities. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
After accounting for both routine monitoring and a supplemental investigation to evaluate H2S and odor concerns, the 
available FY 2024-25 budget for landfill monitoring services was exceeded sooner than anticipated. A supplemental budget 
appropriation of $95,000 of unassigned fund balance in the Landfill Fund is needed to increase the Public Works operating 
budget and cover the costs already incurred for the investigation, as well as the permitting work required before any 
further exploratory or remediation efforts can proceed. Sufficient funds are available in the unassigned fund balance of the 
Landfill Fund for this appropriation.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of an amendment to the agreement with SCS for continued monitoring, reporting and investigatory work at the 
East Third Avenue Landfill is exempt from CEQA review as information gathering, because it consists of basic data 
collection, research, experimental management, and resource evaluation activities which do not result in a serious or 
major disturbance to an environmental resource. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15306.) In addition, approval of a budget 
appropriation from an unassigned fund balance of the Landfill fund to the Public Works Department operating budget is 
exempt from CEQA review, because it consists of a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to 
any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Amendment No. 1  
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Acting Regulatory Compliance Manager
Jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7346
Ella Phillips, Regulatory Compliance Inspector
ephillips@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7343
 
456 of 1111

--- page 457 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2025)
AUTHORIZATING AN APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $95,000 FROM THE UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE 
OF THE LANDFILL FUND TO THE PUBLIC WORKS OPERATING BUDGET 
WHEREAS, the City Council also considers mid-year budget balancing through adjustments, 
appropriations, designations and transfers to adjust the current-year budget to meet anticipated changes in 
departmental budgetary needs; and
WHEREAS, the City entered into an agreement for Monitoring and Reporting Services for Hydrogen 
Sulfide Gas (H2S) at East 3rd Avenue Landfill with Stearns Conrad and Schmidt Consulting, Inc. dba SCS Engineers; 
and
WHEREAS, both routine monitoring and supplemental investigation to evaluate H2S and odor concerns 
exceeded the available Fiscal Year 2024-25 budget for landfill monitoring sooner than anticipated; and 
WHEREAS, additional investigation work in the upland wetland area of the landfill necessary and 
requires permits from several regulatory agencies, expanding the scope of work of the agreement; and
WHEREAS, an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2024-25 operating budget is necessary to address funding 
of those services; and
WHEREAS, sufficient funds are available in the unassigned fund balance of the Landfill Fund to satisfy 
the funding needs.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), this 
action is categorically exempt from CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity that does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment.
2. An appropriation in the amount of $95,000 from the unassigned fund balance of the Landfill Fund to 
the Public Works operating budget is authorized.
457 of 1111

--- page 458 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 3 
CAO Approved June 2024 
 
 
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
STEARNS CONRAD AND SCHMIDT CONSULTING, INC. DBA SCS ENGINEERS FOR 
PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR MONITORING AND REPORTING SERVICES FOR 
HYDROGEN SULFIDE AT EAST 3RD AVENUE LANDFILL 
($49,775 [Original Amount], $57,650 [Amendment No. 1]) 
 
 
 
This Amendment is made and entered into this day of _________________ by and between the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), 
and STEARNS CONRAD AND SCHMIDT CONSULTING, INC. DBA SCS ENGINEERS ("CONSULTANT”). 
 
WHEREAS, on August 26, 2024, CITY and CONSULTANT entered into an agreement for 
Monitoring and Reporting Services for Hydrogen Sulfide at East 3rd Avenue Landfill professional 
services in the amount of $49,775; and  
              
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement to increase the scope of work, 
extend the term, and increase the compensation in the amount of $57,650, for a revised total 
compensation of $107,425. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 4 – “Term” of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on August 19, 
2024, and be completed on or about December 31, 2026, or after the permitting is 
completed.” 
 
2.  
Section 5 – “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the 
monthly performance of the services set forth in Exhibits A and A1, CITY agrees to pay 
CONSULTANT a fee in an amount not to exceed of $107,425, pursuant to rates stated in 
Exhibits B and B1 to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.” 
458 of 1111

--- page 459 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 3 
CAO Approved June 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Exhibit A, “Work Scope” of the Agreement is amended to include Exhibit A1, attached 
and incorporated by reference.  
 
4. 
Exibit B, “Payment Rates” of the Agreement is amended to include Exhibit B1, attached 
and incorporated by reference.  
 
5. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
459 of 1111

--- page 460 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 3 of 3 
CAO Approved June 2024 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SCS ENGINEERS have executed this Amendment on 
___________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
SCS ENGINEERS 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Fabry, P.E. 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Pat Sullivan  
Its Authorized Agent 
Senior Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh P. Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Curtis P. Jang 
Treasurer/Chief Financial Officer 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
460 of 1111

--- page 461 ---
SCOPE OF WORK 
Under this work scope, SCS will provide permitting services to allow for work to be conducted in the 
upland wetland area of the Site. Services are anticipated to start this spring and are aimed to have 
permits in place toward the end of summer (contingent upon review and acceptance of the governing 
regulatory agencies). These services included associated meetings with regulators, City, and our 
permitting subcontractor during the permitting process. SCS will also include local enforcement agency 
(LEA) notifications for work that extends into the toe of the existing landfill slope adjacent to the 
identified odor source area upon receipt of approved permits. 
Please find details for each task of our proposed work scope below. 
Task 1 - U.S. ARMY CORP OF ENGINEERS (USACE) PERMIT 
Under Task 1, SCS will procure the services of and manage our subcontractor, LSA of Richmond, 
California, who is well-versed in the Site and will perform the required USACE Permit(s) for the Project. 
LSA has worked on numerous permits in the San Francisco Bay Area that have been approved for a 
myriad of projects. SCS has established a great rapport with LSA and they provided the constraints 
analysis for the Site in support of our Phase I. As part of this work, SCS will provide support to LSA 
during the permitting effort, develop the project description, and take part in any required USACE 
meeting(s) with LSA in performance of the work. 
Under Task 1, SCS and LSA assume that the Project will be able to be permitted under one of the 
Nationwide Permits (NWPs) issued by the USACE. NWP # 38 - Cleanup of Hazardous and Toxic Waste 
would most likely be the appropriate NWP for the project. NWPs allow for small fills of jurisdictional 
areas and do not require an in-depth Alternatives Analysis (AA) to demonstrate that no practical 
alternative exists that impacts less jurisdictional area. LSA will prepare a NWP Preconstruction 
Notification (PCN) package for submittal to the USACE in accordance with San Francisco District 
regulations and guidelines. The PCN will include all the required information, including the 
jurisdictional delineation in the biological constraints report. SCS will support LSA needs during this 
permitting effort and review the deliverable prior to forwarding it to the City for review/approval. 
Task 2 - RWQCB WATER QUALITY CERTIFICATION (WQC) 
Under Task 2, SCS will manage our subcontractor, LSA, who will perform the required Regional Water 
Quality Control Board (RWQCB) Permit(s) for the Project. SCS will assist LSA with the Water Quality 
Certification (WQC) requirement and provide regulatory meetings with LSA throughout the permitting 
process. 
The WQC from the RWQCB (San Francisco Bay Region) will be required pursuant to Section 401 of the 
Clean Water Act. The WQC application package will include an SCS cover letter describing the project 
and impacts to jurisdictional features, a copy of the USACE PCN package, RWQCB standard application 
Exhibit A1
461 of 1111

--- page 462 ---
form, figures depicting the type and extent of impacts to jurisdictional features, evidence of CEQA 
compliance, and an application filing fee. The application filing fee will be based on the type and extent 
of impacts in areas within the jurisdiction of RWQCB. Prior to finalizing the application, LSA will submit 
a draft package to SCS for our review and comment prior to SCS sending it to the City for 
review/comment. 
Task 3 - Alternatives Analysis (AA) 
A WQC application requires an AA which discusses potential alternatives to the proposed project that 
would be less impactful to jurisdictional features. Based on our phone conversations, we are assuming 
that impacts from the proposed project will be less than 0.10 acre which would qualify for a Tier 1 AA. 
The AA will describe the avoidance and minimization measures that will be implemented to protect 
water quality and beneficial uses, as well as include a description from the engineer related to how 
the impacts are minimized. SCS will assist LSA with the AA and provide input to LSA to meet this permit 
requirement 
Task 4 - Preconstruction Nesting Bird Survey 
Under Task 4, the Project will likely require a preconstruction survey for nesting birds protected 
under the federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the California Fish and Game Code. A qualified LSA 
wildlife biologist will conduct the preconstruction survey and a summary memo with the results of the 
preconstruction survey will be prepared. 
Task 5 - Project Management & City Meetings 
Under this task, SCS will provide overall management for the project and provide 4-hours of 
meetings with LSA, and four (4) 1-hour meetings with the City during the permitting process. 
Meetings will be held via Microsoft Teams. 
Once the above services are complete, SCS will provide a proposal for estimated remediation costs 
under separate cover. 
STAFFING 
Under this project, SCS will dedicate the following persons who will take the lead in this effort. 
Project Director/Technical Engineer - Maura Dougherty, P.E. 
Project Manager- Mark J. Erickson, E.I.T. 
Project Manager/Geologist - Patrick Harms, P.G. 
SCS will also provide additional support staff as part of the project team. Work under the contract will 
be managed by both Mark Erickson, E.I.T., and Patrick Harms, P.G. Mark Erickson and will be the main 
points of contact (POC) for the City. 
462 of 1111

--- page 463 ---
BUDGETARY ESTIMATE 
A cost estimate to complete the project work outlined above is provided below. 
Task 1 - USACE Permit 
Total Task 1 
$13,900 
Task 2 - RWQCB Water Quality Certification 
Total Task 2 
$ 8,900 
Task 2 - Biological Assessment (Add on, If necessary) 
$ 9,900 
Task 3 - Alternatives Analysis (SCS and LSA) 
Total Task 3 
$ 4,000 
Task 4 - Pre-Construction Nesting Bird Survey (SCS and LSA) 
Total Task 4 
$ 1,700* 
Task 5 - Project Management (SCS and LSA) 
Total Task 5 
$11,500 
Total Estimated Cost 
$49,900 
* As an engineering value added benefit, SCS will provide oversight of LSA for our portion of Task 4
services at no cost to the City.
SCHEDULE 
SCS will start our services immediately upon approval of this proposal given the timeframe 
for permitting to be complete and in place prior to performing remedial activities. Our 
permitting subcontractor, LSA, is aware of the urgency of this Project and has committed staff to the 
effort and will start their services as soon as SCS receives Notice to Proceed (NTP) from the City, 
463 of 1111

--- page 464 ---
ASSUMPTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
1. Under Task 1, there is no application fee for the USACE Permitting Services.
2. Under Task 2, the RWQCB application filing fee is based on the type and extent of impacts in
areas within the jurisdiction of RWQCB and fees are not included in our proposed services. These
fees are anticipated to cost $4,200 for Tier I alternatives analysis (disturbance area of 0.1 Acre). The
annual fee is estimated at $3,550. Therefore, approximate costs (based on the RWQCB fee
calculator for Dredge and Fill) for this permitting effort is anticipated to be $7,750.
3. Under Task 2, costs for a Biological Assessment (BA), should it be required during USACE
discussions with the USFWS, is included in our proposed services as an additional cost. If not
required, that Task 2 adder will not be billed to the City.
4. Under Task 3, SCS and LSA have estimated 5 hours each to provide for internal meetings on
required pre-field permitting activities. Should more time be required, SCS will charge additional time
under our current MSA (City Fees Schedule) with the City and markups to any required additional LSA
time. LSA hourly rates will be based on a Senior Biologist rate at $195/hour.
5. Under Task 4, SCS and LSA have estimated 4 hours each to provide to coordinate deliverable
efforts in performance of the work. Should more time be required, SCS will charge additional time
under our current MSA (City Fees Schedule) with the City and markups to any required additional LSA
time. LSA hourly rates will be based on a Senior Biologist rate at $195/hour. Additionally, field
related work for the nesting bird survey includes 8 hours of biologist services at $135/hour for field
surveys and 2 hours of senior-level biologist services at $195/hour for project management.
6. Under Task 5, SCS and LSA have estimated 4 hours each (four (4) 1-hour meetings) with the City
throughout the permitting process. Should more time be required, SCS will charge additional time
under our current MSA with the City and markups to any required additional LSA time, with approval
from the City. LSA hourly rates will be based on a Senior Biologist rate at $195/hour.
464 of 1111

--- page 465 ---
E xhi bi t B - 1 
C I T Y O F S A N M A TE O 
L A BOR F EE S C H ED U L E 
(Effective January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025) 
S C S FI E L D S ER V I C ES 
Technical Field Personnel 
Rate ($)/Hour 
Laborer ....................................................................................................................................... 75 
Systems Specialist ...................................................................................................................... 85 
Technician .................................................................................................................................. 92 
Fusion Technician ...................................................................................................................... 95 
Equipment Operator ................................................................................................................. 100 
GIS Technician ......................................................................................................................... 104 
Foreman.................................................................................................................................... 106 
Plant Operator .......................................................................................................................... 110 
Senior Technician ..................................................................................................................... 115 
Superintendent .......................................................................................................................... 130 
Mechanic .................................................................................................................................. 130 
Support Specialist ..................................................................................................................... 138 
Senior Superintendent .............................................................................................................. 173 
Controls Specialist/Network Engineer ..................................................................................... 175 
Network Engineer II ................................................................................................................. 177 
Drone Pilot ............................................................................................................................... 205 
Management/Support Personnel 
Rate ($)/Hour 
Secretarial ................................................................................................................................... 65 
Project Administrator ................................................................................................................. 90 
Field Data Analyst .................................................................................................................... 100 
Senior Project Administrator .................................................................................................... 115 
Senior Field Data Analyst ........................................................................................................ 120 
Administrative Coordinator ...................................................................................................... 120 
Designer/Drafter ....................................................................................................................... 120 
Project Coordinator/Accountant ............................................................................................... 130 
Field Project Coordinator ......................................................................................................... 150 
Project Professional/H&S Specialist ........................................................................................ 160 
Controls & Instrument Engineer .............................................................................................. 185 
Product Development Manager ................................................................................................ 195 
System Integrator/Product Manager/Business Manager .......................................................... 208 
Quality Advisor ........................................................................................................................ 210 
Project Manager/H&S/Quality Manager .................................................................................. 230 
Senior Project Professional ...................................................................................................... 230 
3900 Kilroy Airport Way, Suite 100, Long Beach, CA 90806 | 562-426-9455 | eFax 562-492-9292 
465 of 1111

--- page 466 ---
SCS Field Services Fee Schedule 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025
Page 2 
Sr. Project Manager .................................................................................................................. 260 
Sr. Project Advisor ................................................................................................................... 260 
Developer ................................................................................................................................. 268 
RMC Business Manager .......................................................................................................... 275 
National RMC Director ............................................................................................................ 285 
Director of Technology ............................................................................................................ 285 
Regional Manager/Project Director ......................................................................................... 290 
S C S EN G I N EER S 
Clerical ................................................................................................................................................... 90 
Administrative/Secretarial .................................................................................................................... 99 
Technician ........................................................................................................................................... 112 
CAD Drafter .......................................................................................................................................... 115 
Senior Engineering Technician ........................................................................................................... 120 
Technical Associate I ........................................................................................................................... 125 
Technical Associate II .......................................................................................................................... 130 
Assistant Office Services Manager/Project Administrator ................................................................ 130 
Office Services Manager/Senior Project Administrator..................................................................... 135 
Associate Staff Professional I ............................................................................................................. 140 
Project Analyst ..................................................................................................................................... 140 
Associate Staff Professional II ............................................................................................................ 145 
CAD Designer I ..................................................................................................................................... 145 
Staff Professional I .............................................................................................................................. 150 
Staff Professional II ............................................................................................................................. 155 
Senior Office Services Manager ......................................................................................................... 160 
CAD Designer II .................................................................................................................................... 165 
Staff Professional III ............................................................................................................................ 165 
Project Professional I .......................................................................................................................... 170 
Project Professional II ......................................................................................................................... 178 
Project Professional III ........................................................................................................................ 185 
Senior Project Professional I ............................................................................................................... 195 
Senior Project Professional II .............................................................................................................. 208 
Senior Project Professional III ............................................................................................................. 215 
Industrial Hygienist/Safety Professional ............................................................................................ 225 
Project Manager I ................................................................................................................................ 228 
Project Manager II ............................................................................................................................... 235 
Senior Certified Industrial Hygienist/Safety Professional ................................................................. 250 
Project Manager III .............................................................................................................................. 255 
Project Manager IV .............................................................................................................................. 262 
Senior Project/Technical Manager I ................................................................................................... 270 
Senior Project/Technical Manager II .................................................................................................. 275 
Senior Project Advisor ......................................................................................................................... 285 
Project Director I .................................................................................................................................. 295 
466 of 1111

--- page 467 ---
Project Director II ................................................................................................................................. 305 
Project Director III ................................................................................................................................ 315 
Principals and Executives ....................................................................................................... See Note 5 
467 of 1111

--- page 468 ---
CI T Y O F S A N M A T E O 
F E E SC H E D U L E F O R E Q U I PM E NT A ND A N A L Y S I S 
(Effective January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025) 
Rate ($) 
GEM 2000 NAV/5000 NAV/Envision Gas Analyzer(s): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 214/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,069/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,208/month 
Gazoscan Kit 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 216/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,080/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,240/month 
GEM 5000 w/H2S/CO 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 231/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,156/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,467/month 
SEM 500/TVA 2020/TDL 500/ Site FID Emissions Monitor/Irwin Inficon SEM: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 231/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,156/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,467/month 
Q Rae Gas Analyzer O2/H2S/CO/Combustibles ................................................................................ 58/day 
Micro Max Gas Analyzer O2/H2S/CO/COI Combustibles .................................................................. 58/day 
4 Gas Meter ........................................................................................................................................ 58/day 
Magnehelic Pressure Meter ............................................................................................................... 13/day 
Digital Readout Thermocouple .......................................................................................................... 29/day 
Dewatering Pump (Trash Pump) ........................................................................................................ 52/day 
Dräger Detector Tubes/Pump ........................................................................................................ 24/each 
MiniRae 2000/3000 PID: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 174/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 869/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 2,608/month 
3900 Kilroy Airport Way, Suite 100, Long Beach, CA 90806 | 562-426-9455 | eFax 562-492-9292 
468 of 1111

--- page 469 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
RKI Eagle II: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 174/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 869/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 2,608/month 
Air Sampling Station: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 875/month 
Pipe Laser: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 875/month 
PAS 3000 Personal Air Sampling Pump ............................................................................................ 29/day 
Tedlar Bag (10-Liter) ........................................................................................................................46/each 
Sample Flow Controller/Tier II Gauge ............................................................................................... 49/day 
Non-Contaminating Air Sampling Pump ............................................................................................ 29/day 
Interface Probe ................................................................................................................................... 58/day 
Handheld GPS: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 29/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 146/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................437/month 
Submersible Pump: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................875/month 
Water Level Indicator: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 24/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 119/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................356/month 
Water Level Meter w/Temperature: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 52/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 259/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................ 778/month 
469 of 1111

--- page 470 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
100-Foot Temperature Probe:

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 18/day 

Weekly Rate ................................................................................................................. 92/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 275/month 
Teflon Well Bailer............................................................................................................................. 29/each 
Vacuum Box/Carbon Canister and Blower..................................................................................... 174/day 
Tool Truck ......................................................................................................................................... 25/hour 
No. 14 P.E. Fusion Machine (1”-4”): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 127/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 637/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,912/month 
No. 26 P.E. Fusion Machine (2”-6”): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 157/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 783/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 2,349/month 
No. 28 P.E. Fusion Machine (2”-8”) 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 208/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,042/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,127/month 
No. 412 P.E. Fusion Machine (4”-12”): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 319/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,593/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 4,779/month 
No. 618 P.E. Fusion Machine (6”-18”): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 550/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 2,749/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 8,246/month 
No. 824 P.E. Fusion Machine (8”-24”): 

Daily Rate .................................................................................................................. 1,098/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 5,492/week 

Monthly Rate ...................................................................................................... 16,475/month 
470 of 1111

--- page 471 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
Trackstar 500 Fusion Machine 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 491/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 2,457/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 7,371/month 
Sidewinder Fusion Machine 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 174/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 869/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 2,608/month 
Electrofusion Processor Machine: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 203/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,015/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,046/month 
Leister Extrusion Welding Gun ........................................................................................................ 174/day 
Air Compressor ................................................................................................................................... 70/day 
Arc Welder ........................................................................................................................................... 86/day 
Generator (3,500-Watt)...................................................................................................................... 70/day 
Generator (5,000-Watt)...................................................................................................................... 86/day 
Generator (6,000-Watt)...................................................................................................................... 92/day 
Generator (8,000-Watt)...................................................................................................................... 97/day 
Isolation Pinch-off Tool (1”-4”): 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 46/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 232/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 697/month 
Isolation Pinch-off Tool (2”-8”): 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 70/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 351/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,053/month 
Isolation Pinch-off Tool (8”-12”): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 116/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 578/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,733/month 
4-Wheeler (ATV/UTV):

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 874/month 
471 of 1111

--- page 472 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
4-Wheeler with 44” Mow Deck:

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 116/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 578/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,733/month 
Riding Mower: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 203/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,015/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,046/month 
Chain Saw: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 13/day 

Weekly Rate ................................................................................................................. 65/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 194/month 
Horiba Water Quality Meter: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 875/month 
Hydrogen Sulfide Meter: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 220/day 

Weekly Rate ........................................................................................................... 1,102/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 3,305/month 
Infrared Thermometer: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 13/day 

Weekly Rate ................................................................................................................. 65/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 194/month 
Micropurge Flow Cell (Groundwater): 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 116/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 578/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,733/month 
Oiless Compressor and Control Box (Groundwater): 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 86/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 432/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,296/month 
472 of 1111

--- page 473 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
Earth/Resistance Tester: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 116/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 578/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,733/month 
Pitot Tube and Gauges: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 13/day 

Weekly Rate ................................................................................................................. 45/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 194/month 
Pressure Washer: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 58/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 292/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................... 874/month 
Turbidity Meter/Conductivity Meter: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 29/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 146/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................437/month 
Vacuum Air Pump: 

Daily Rate ..................................................................................................................... 116/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 578/week 

Monthly Rate ........................................................................................................ 1,733/month 
Downhole Video Camera System ................................................................................................... 231/day 
Weed Trimmer: 

Daily Rate ........................................................................................................................ 29/day 

Weekly Rate ............................................................................................................... 146/week 

Monthly Rate ............................................................................................................437/month 
Safety Equipment: 

Tyvek Suit (each) ...........................................................................................................18/each 

Polyethylene suit (each) ............................................................................................... 24/each 

Nitrile gloves (per pair) ................................................................................................. 18/each 

PVC Gloves (per pair) .................................................................................................... 18/each 

Rubber booties (per pair) ............................................................................................. 18/each 

Organic Vapor Cartridges (per pair) ............................................................................. 24/each 

Organic Vapor/Acid Cartridges (per pair) ..................................................................... 29/each 

Cartridges pre-filters (per pair) ..................................................................................... 18/each 
473 of 1111

--- page 474 ---
Rate ($) 
SCS Field Services 
Fee Schedule for Equipment and Analysis 
January 1, 2024 through December 31, 2025 
Safety Equipment Continued: 

Half face respirator (each).............................................................................................. 24/day 

Full face respirator (each) ............................................................................................. 29/day 

Ventilator/manhole blowers ........................................................................................... 29/day 

Parachute harness.......................................................................................................... 13/day 

Tripod:
-
Daily Rate .................................................................................................................. 86/day 
-
Weekly Rate ......................................................................................................... 432/week 
-
Monthly Rate.................................................................................................. 1,296/month 

SCBA ............................................................................................................................. 231/day 
474 of 1111

--- page 475 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 31
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10046
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16th, 2025
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Mosquito Abatement — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a three-year agreement with the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District for mosquito 
monitoring and abatement at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not to exceed $45,000; establish a 
contingency reserve of $5,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District (District) provides countywide mosquito abatement services 
to the public as a public health service. The District operates pursuant to the statutory laws relating to mosquito 
abatement and pest abatement districts in California Health and Safety Code, Division 3, Chapter 1, Sections 2060-2910, 
inclusive.
The Wastewater Treatment Plant poses a potential risk for mosquito breeding. The proposed Abatement Services 
Agreement is for mosquito surveillance and control activities by the District at the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) 
that cannot be handled within the normal scope of the District’s programs.
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(g), contracts with other governmental agencies are exempt from 
the City’s purchasing ordinance. However, pursuant to City policy, intergovernmental contracts require City Council 
approval. Therefore, staff recommends the City Council approve a three-year agreement, through Fiscal Year 2027-28, with 
the District for mosquito monitoring and abatement services at the WWTP in an amount not to exceed $45,000, with a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $5,000.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is budgeted annually in the WWTP Operations operating budget for these services. Pending approval and adoption of 
the Fiscal Year 2025-26 budget, sufficient funding will be available to cover the costs of the agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
475 of 1111

--- page 476 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, WWTP Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7386
476 of 1111

--- page 477 ---
April 17, 2025 
City of San Mateo, Department of Public Works 
ATTN: Matt Fabry  
330 W 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Subject: Mosquito Abatement Services Agreement FY2025- 2026, 2026-2027, and 2027-2028 
Dear Mr. Fabry, 
Enclosed is the “Abatement Services Agreement” between our agencies for mosquito surveillance and 
control activities by the District for the wastewater treatment plant in San Mateo.   
The “Abatement Services Agreement” is designed to address unique mosquito control issues that cannot 
be managed within the normal scope of this District’s programs. It should be clearly understood that the 
residents of San Mateo will continue to receive the same level of public health service as before, in 
addition to the extra services provided by this agreement. As part of an integrated mosquito control plan, 
District personnel will conduct surveillance using CO2-baited traps and other traditional mosquito 
sampling methods at your location. Surveillance data will be used to develop a tailored mosquito control 
strategy that may involve the application of pesticides. Any questions about the treatment program should 
be directed to Casey Stevenson, Operations Director.   
This District operates in accordance with the statutory laws relating to mosquito abatement and pest 
abatement districts in California Health and Safety Code, Division 3, Chapter 1, Sections 2060 - 2910 
inclusive. Please sign, date, and return the original copy of the “Abatement Services Agreement” to the 
San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District as soon as possible.  
Sincerely, 
Brian Weber  
District Manager 
Docusign Envelope ID: 0224DCEB-A9D4-45AA-B66F-35FD129F9D33
477 of 1111

--- page 478 ---
ABATEMENT SERVICES AGREEMENT 
The SAN MATEO COUNTY MOSQUITO AND VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT (“District”) and 
CITY OF SAN MATEO WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (“Owner”) agree as follows: 
1.
The District will perform abatement services for the Owner’s problem site as described below.  As
reasonably necessary, the District will develop and implement mosquito surveillance and control
activities with appropriate materials and equipment.
2.
Problem site:  Wastewater Treatment Plant at 2050 Detroit Dr, San Mateo.
3.
Owner shall reimburse District at a rate of $93.23 per man-hour for inspection and/or treatment work,
along with the cost of District-supplied materials.  Man-hours will include setting and inspection of
CO2 trap devices on or around the problem site.
 Approx.:  8 Months 2 people, 2 hours each week  
 Approx.:  4 Months 1 person, 2 hours every three weeks 
 Approx.:  3 – 20 Gal BVA2 @ approx. $11.52 gal 
4.
District personnel will inform the property owner if mosquito breeding habitats can be eliminated
without using pesticides (i.e., water circulation, fish stocking, and sealing entry/exit points). If non-
pesticide methods cannot be identified or if the recommended actions fail, District personnel will
implement control measures using public health pesticides, which may include materials that kill
adult mosquitoes (adulticides). The choice of appropriate materials will rely on surveillance results
and any additional information obtained by Mosquito and Vector Control staff. A 24-hour notice will
be given to Plant Management prior to adulticiding.
5.
The emergence of any unusual issues requiring extra manpower, equipment, and materials will
necessitate a change order as an addendum to this agreement. It is understood that any modifications
will be mutually agreed upon before the initiation of the order. All extra costs related to change orders
will be negotiated separately.
6.
The owner will pay for such services within 30 days of receipt of each bill.
7.
This agreement shall be effective July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2028.  Either party may terminate the
agreement upon 30 days’ written notice to the other party.
8.
During the term of this agreement, both contracting parties specifically waive the right to use the
abatement procedures set forth in Health and Safety Code Sections 2060 through 2067, inclusive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties execute this Agreement this _____ day of __________, 2025. 
San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District 
1351 Rollins Road 
Burlingame, California 94010 
By: ______________________________________________     _________________________ 
Name  
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
Matt Fabry 
City of San Mateo, Department of Public Works 
330 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94404 
By: ______________________________________________     _________________________ 
Name  
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
Docusign Envelope ID: 0224DCEB-A9D4-45AA-B66F-35FD129F9D33
District Manager
478 of 1111

--- page 479 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  32
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 25-10053
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Caltrain Commuter Shuttle – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a two-year agreement with Commute.org (Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance) for the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Commuter Shuttle in the amount of $169,028; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The City has historically collaborated with Commute.org to provide commuter shuttle bus services to key business parks 
and destinations within the city through biennial agreements. These commuter shuttle services are provided through a 
third-party vendor from the San Mateo County Transit District and managed by Commute.org. The City’s partnership with 
Commute.org is highly advantageous, with Commute.org managing shuttle logistics and contributing 75 percent of the 
funding, while the City is responsible for the remaining 25 percent. The most recent agreement, approved by the City 
Council on June 20, 2023, supports shuttle services on a split route (Hillsdale Commuter Caltrain (HCC) East and West), 
connecting the City’s Caltrain stations to high-ridership areas, including the San Mateo Medical Center, Alameda/20th, and 
office buildings near Concar/Amphlett. The agreement also updated the management and operational structure of the 
shuttle program and clarified mutual funding responsibilities between Commute.org and the City. The current agreement 
is set to expire on June 30, 2025.
Earlier this year, Commute.org submitted a grant application through the San Mateo County Transportation Authority’s 
(SMCTA) call for projects to secure funding for the continued operation of the City’s shuttle routes. In response to changes 
in the grant structure, the shuttle team proposed consolidating the existing routes into a single east route to enhance 
ridership without increasing operational demands. This redesigned route will connect high-ridership residential and 
commercial areas east of Highway 101 with the Hillsdale Caltrain station, while also creating opportunities for private 
funding of the commuter service. Key service streets include Norfolk Street, Fashion Island Boulevard, Mariners Island 
Boulevard, and Bridgepointe Parkway. Residential communities within the service area include Lakeshore, Harbortown, 
Edgewater Isle, and Mariners Isle. Notable commercial properties served include 1400 Gateway, 901 and 951 Mariners 
Island Boulevard, 999 Baker, and the Sony PlayStation complex. The route is structured to provide bi-directional service, 
facilitating morning commutes for employees to commercial locations and residents to the Hillsdale Caltrain station, with 
afternoon service transporting residents from the station along the route and employees back to the station.  A map of the 
revised route is included in the attached agreement.  
SMCTA approved the grant application for the HCC shuttle route, and this agreement formalizes the terms and conditions 
for operations. As in prior years, Commute.org will contribute 75 percent of the total cost and the City will be responsible 
for the remaining 25 percent of the cost. As the shuttle service is provided by a third-party vendor from the San Mateo 
County Transit District, and managed by Commute.org, the agreement also requires the shuttle vendor to indemnify 
479 of 1111

--- page 480 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
participating agencies, including the City. Given the shuttle route changes, City staff will coordinate with Commute.org to 
provide community updates ahead of the July 1st service start. This agreement is for a two-year term, in accordance with 
the funding agreement between Commute.org and SMCTA. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The total two-year agreement cost for shuttle operations is $676,111. Commute.org’s maximum contribution is 75 percent 
of the total cost, or $507,083. The City is responsible for the remaining portion of the total cost, equating to approximately 
25 percent, or $169,028, for the two-year term. There is sufficient funding in the Citywide Parking and Transportation 
budget for the City’s share of costs.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no 
possibility that entering into an agreement with Commute.org to provide shuttle services will have a significant effect on 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ella Phillips, Environmental Compliance Inspector
ephillips@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7343
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
480 of 1111

--- page 481 ---
SHUTTLE BUS SERVICE ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN COMMUTER
This Shuttle Bus Service Administration Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into on 
_____________ ("Effective Date"), between the City of San Mateo ("Lead Organization"), and 
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance ("Commute.org"). For clarity, references to "the 
Parties" mean the Lead Organization and Commute.org.  
RECITALS
A.
Lead Organization desires to participate in a shuttle bus service ("Shuttle Service") 
as part of the Shuttle Bus Program ("Program"). 
B.
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the terms and conditions of Lead 
Organization's proposed participation in the Shuttle Service and in the Program.
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the Parties agree as 
follows:
1.
Authorization.  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, Lead 
Organization hereby is authorized to participate in the Program.  The Hillsdale Caltrain Commuter 
(“Shuttle”) shall operate to and from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station, in San Mateo, California, and 
employment and residential areas along the route shown on the map attached to this Agreement as 
Exhibit A, and described in the schedule attached to this Agreement as Exhibit B.  The route and 
frequency of the Shuttle may be reasonably modified by Commute.org from time to time.  Lead 
Organization understands and agrees that more than one participant may be served by the Shuttle.  
2.
Lead Organization.  Lead Organization acknowledges that it has been selected and 
accepts the position of Lead Organization on behalf of all organizations served by the Shuttle.  As 
Lead Organization, Lead Organization shall provide the projected minimum Twenty-Five Percent 
(25.0%) financial share, excluding contributions from Commute.org described under Section 5 of 
the Agreement, Maximum Contribution; Payment.
Lead Organization may seek appropriate contributions from participating organizations for 
reimbursement of amounts expended by Lead Organization hereunder, it being understood that 
Lead Organization shall not seek or make a profit from serving as Lead Organization.  
Commute.org has no responsibility to collect any such amounts from such other organizations 
participating in the Program to be serviced by the Shuttle.
3.
Shuttle Service Vendor.  Shuttle Service is operated by the San Mateo County 
Transit District's Shuttle Provider (“Vendor”) in full accordance with the terms and conditions of 
481 of 1111

--- page 482 ---
the contract between SamTrans and the Vendor. Commute.org or its designee will have daily 
management responsibilities for the Shuttle. 
Commute.org shall be responsible for supplying and/or completing any grant-related 
reporting information.  Lead Organization shall assist Commute.org in obtaining appropriate 
reporting information.
4.
Term.  The term of this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2025 and end on 
June 30, 2027.  Any obligations which are incurred under the Agreement which are expressly 
provided to extend beyond the term of this Agreement, including any contribution obligations 
incurred by Commute.org pursuant to Section 5, shall remain valid until fulfilled as provided for 
in this Agreement.  This Agreement may be terminated by either party without cause by giving 
thirty (30) days prior written notice to the other in the manner provided below.  
All subsidy funds provided for the Program shall be generated from non-Commute.org 
revenue streams.  At no time shall Commute.org be liable for additional revenue not included as 
part of the external authorized grant or for expenses disallowed by the granting entities (grantor). 
Commute.org budget decisions are subject to the discretion of Commute.org's Executive Director 
and Commute.org's Board of Directors.  This Agreement will terminate without penalty, liability 
or expense of any kind to Commute.org, if funds are not appropriated for the current fiscal year to 
fund the Shuttle Services.  If funds are appropriated for a portion of the current fiscal year, this 
Agreement will terminate without penalty, liability or expense of any kind to Commute.org, at the 
end of the term for which the funds are appropriated.  If expected revenues, from pending or future 
grant applications, which are intended to fulfill any portion of Commute.org contribution under 
this Agreement, are not approved and/or received by Commute.org, this Agreement will terminate 
without penalty, liability or expense of any kind to Commute.org, at the end of the term for which 
the funds are appropriated.  Commute.org has no obligation to make appropriations for this 
Agreement in lieu of appropriations for new or other agreements.  
The term of this Agreement may be extended to cover additional funding periods, by 
mutual written agreement.  In the event that the Agreement term is extended, the Parties shall set 
forth any terms, including Commute.org's maximum contribution that will be applicable during 
the period of extension.
5.
Maximum Contribution; Payment.  Commute.org's maximum contribution (which 
includes contributions from all other funding agencies involved, if any) for Shuttle Service shall 
not exceed Five Hundred and Seven Thousand Eighty-Three Dollars ($507,083) or Seventy-Five 
point (75.0%) of the estimated total costs for the Shuttle Service as determined by Commute.org 
whichever amount is less.  
6.
Lead Organization's Payment.  Lead Organization shall pay Twenty-Five Percent 
(25.0%) of the total actual costs of the Shuttle Service described in Section 1 of this Agreement.  
Lead Organization's 25.0% share shall equal One Hundred and Sixty-Nine Thousand Twenty-
Eight Dollars ($169,028), subject to a final adjustment as provided below.  
Lead Organization shall pay based on quarterly invoices from Commute.org.  Lead 
Organization shall pay each invoice within thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice.  In the 
482 of 1111

--- page 483 ---
event 25.0% of the actual cost of operating the Shuttle during the term of this Agreement exceeds 
Lead Organization's total payments, excluding any Administration fee, upon adequate 
substantiation of such cost overrun, Lead Organization shall pay to Commute.org the difference 
within thirty (30) days of Commute.org's request for it.  All payments required under this 
Agreement shall be made by check or money order and delivered to the following address:
Commute.org
Attention: Shuttle Department
400 Oyster Point Blvd., Suite 409
South San Francisco, CA  94080 
Lead Organization shall be solely responsible for collecting any amounts owed by other 
organizations participating in the Program to be serviced by the Shuttle, if any. 
7.
Audit Requirements.  For the duration of this Agreement, and for a period of three 
years thereafter, Lead Organization shall make available, during normal business hours and upon 
reasonable notice, to Commute.org and/or the grantor supplying funds for this Shuttle Service, or 
an independent auditor selected by either or both of them, all records relating to Lead 
Organization's participation in the Program including, but not limited to, all records of receipts and 
expenditures, promptly upon request.  Commute.org and/or grantor shall bear its own costs 
connected with such audit, including the cost of an independent auditor.  Lead Organization shall 
only be responsible for its own costs for making available all records relating to Lead 
Organization's participation in the Program in the event such an audit is requested. 
8.
Reporting Requirements.  For the duration of this Agreement, including any 
extension terms, and for a period of three years thereafter, Lead Organization shall assist 
Commute.org with any reporting requirements related to the performance of this Agreement.  
Commute.org shall bear its own costs connected with such reporting.  Lead Organization shall 
only be responsible for its own costs for making available all records relating to the Lead 
Organization’s participation in the Program in the event such a report is requested.  Records may 
include, but are not limited to ridership reports, rider surveys, customer compliments/complaints, 
schedule variants and effective dates.
9.
Marketing Program.  The Commute.org countywide shuttle marketing program 
description will be attached and made a part of this agreement as Exhibit C – MARKETING 
PROGRAM.  Any brochures, handbooks, articles, news releases, timetables, web content, or other 
publications regarding the Shuttle (collectively “Collateral”) if provided by Lead Organization, 
shall occur at its sole expense with no additional reimbursement from Commute.org.  All such 
Collateral must be approved by Commute.org in advance of publication.  All Collateral shall 
identify the grantors as funding sources in a manner approved by Commute.org, with copies to 
Commute.org.  See Exhibit D – GRANTING ENTITIES.  During the term of this Agreement, 
funding sources may change.  Commute.org will notify the Lead Organization of such changes 
and any additional marketing requirements that may apply as a result.  The updates will not require 
Lead Organization consent.  Lead Organization shall comply with update for newly drafted 
marketing materials.
483 of 1111

--- page 484 ---
10.
Passenger Comments.  Lead Organization shall refer any passenger comments 
and/or complaints regarding quality of service or equipment, to Commute.org (650.588.1600) or 
website (Commute.org), unless otherwise instructed.  
11. Indemnification.  Lead Organization shall indemnify, keep and save harmless 
Commute.org, the San Mateo County Transit District, the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority (“TA”) and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, 
"Indemnitees") against any and all suits, claims or actions arising out of any injury to persons or 
property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have occurred, in the course of the operation of 
the Shuttle caused by an act or omission of Lead Organization or its employees, contractors, 
subcontractors, representatives or agents.  Commute.org will notify Lead Organization promptly 
of any claim, the Lead Organization will have control of the defense of such claim and related 
settlement, and at the Lead Organization’s request and Lead Organization’s sole cost and expense, 
the Indemnitees will cooperate reasonably in the defense by providing information related to the 
Shuttle that is within their control.  Except in the event of sole negligence on the part of 
Indemnitees, Lead Organization further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims 
and pay all charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses arising therefrom or incurred in 
connection therewith; and if any judgment be rendered against the Indemnitees in any such action, 
Lead Organization shall, at its expense, satisfy and discharge the same. This indemnity shall 
survive the termination of this Agreement and or any extension thereof.  
Commute.org shall indemnify, keep and save harmless the Lead Organization and its 
directors, officers, agents and employees (collectively, "Lead Organization Indemnitees") against 
any and all suits, claims or actions arising out of any injury to persons or property that may occur, 
or that may be alleged to have occurred, in the course of the operation of the Shuttle caused by an 
act or omission of Commute.org or its employees, contractors, subcontractors, representatives or 
agents.  Lead Organization will notify Commute.org promptly of any claim, Commute.org will 
have control of the defense of such claim and related settlement, and at Commute.org’s request 
and Commute.org’s sole cost and expense, the Lead Organization Indemnitees will cooperate 
reasonably in the defense by providing information related to the Shuttle that is within their control.  
Except in the event of sole negligence on the part of the Lead Organization Indemnitees, 
Commute.org further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims and pay all charges 
of attorneys and all other costs and expenses arising therefrom or incurred in connection therewith; 
and if any judgment be rendered against the Lead Organization Indemnitees in any such action, 
Commute.org shall, at its expense, satisfy and discharge the same. This indemnity shall survive 
the termination of this Agreement and or any extension thereof.
Lead Organization shall be included as an Indemnitee in the agreement between 
Commute.org and Vendor.  A copy of that indemnity provision is attached as Exhibit E – 
INDEMNITY INCLUSION. 
12.
Notices.  Any notice, report, request, instruction or other document required by this 
Agreement will be in writing and delivered in person to a representative of the parties at the address 
below, or by mailing the same by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
If to Commute.org:
Peninsula Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance
484 of 1111

--- page 485 ---
400 Oyster Point Blvd, Suite 409
South San Francisco, CA 94080
ATTN: Executive Director 
If to Lead Organization:
Matt Fabry, P.E.
Public Works Director
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave.
San Mateo, CA  94403
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
Any notice served personally shall be deemed received upon delivery; any notice mailed 
via registered or certified mail as provided above shall be deemed received two (2) days after it is 
postmarked by the U.S. Mail Service.  Either party may change its address by sending notice of 
the change to the other party as provided herein.
13.
Liaison.  Commute.org and Lead Organization shall each designate one or more 
persons to act as contact or liaison with the other party with regard to the day to day activities of 
the Program.  Lead Organization's liaison shall be responsible, among other things, for complying 
with all reporting requirements specified in this Agreement, as well as coordinating the marketing 
program required by Section 9 above.  Each party's liaison is as follows:
Commute.org Liaison:
Richard Fontela
Senior Shuttle Programs Coordinator 
(650) 588-8170
richard@commute.org 
When the primary Lead Organization’s Liaison is unavailable, a secondary 
contact shall be:
John Ford
Executive Director
(650) 588-8170
john@commute.org
Lead Organization's Liaison:
Jay Yu
Engineer Manager
(650) 522-7323
@cityofsanmateo.org
485 of 1111

--- page 486 ---
When the primary Lead Organization’s Liaison is unavailable, a secondary contact 
shall be: 
Lead Organization's 2nd Liaison:
Nicolette Chan
Associate Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
14.
Attorneys' Fees.  In the event legal proceedings are instituted by either of the parties 
to enforce any term of this Agreement or to determine the rights of the parties hereunder, the 
prevailing party in said proceedings shall recover, in addition to all court costs, reasonable 
attorneys' fees.
15.
Relationship.  Pursuant to this Agreement, Commute.org is merely a partial funding 
agency for transportation provided on behalf of the Lead Organization to their (and other 
participants, if any) tenants, employees, contractors, or designated agents under the Program.  
Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a partnership, joint venture, independent contractor or 
employment relationship between Commute.org and Lead Organization.
16.
Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance 
with the laws of the State of California as applied to contracts made and performed entirely in 
California.
17.
Successors.  These Agreement obligations created under this Agreement shall be 
binding on, and the rights established herein shall inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns 
of the parties hereto.
18.
Assignment. Lead Organization may not assign any of its rights nor transfer any of 
its obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of Commute.org. 
19.
Modification.  This Agreement may be modified or amended only by a written 
document signed by both parties.
20.
Dispute Resolution.  Commute.org and the Lead Organization agree to attempt in 
good faith to resolve all disputes informally.  If agreed to by both parties, alternate methods of 
dispute resolution, such as mediation, may be utilized.  Unless otherwise directed by 
Commute.org, the Lead Organization shall continue performance under this Agreement while 
matters in dispute are being resolved.
21.
Interpretation.  Section headings are solely for convenience and are not intended to 
affect the interpretation of the Agreement.  The Agreement will be interpreted reasonably, not in 
favor of or against either party.
22.
No Third Party Rights.  The parties do not intend this Agreement to create rights in 
any third parties and nothing in this Agreement should be construed to do so.
23.
Commute.org Warranties.  Commute.org makes no warranties or representations, 
either express or implied, beyond such as are explicitly stated in this Agreement.
486 of 1111

--- page 487 ---
24.
Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement or any portion thereof is held to 
be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, that provision will be reformed and/or construed 
consistently with applicable law as nearly as possible to reflect the original intentions of this 
Agreement, and in any event such provision will be severable and will not affect the validity or 
enforceability of any other provision.
25.
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties 
with respect to its subject matter and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous oral or written 
understandings of the parties on the same subject.  This Agreement may only be amended in a 
writing signed by both of the parties hereto.  The parties intend this Agreement to be an integrated 
agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date first 
written above with the intent to be legally bound.
COMMUTE.ORG 
(PENINSULA TRAFFIC CONGESTION 
RELIEF ALLIANCE)
LEAD ORGANIZATION 
(CITY OF SAN MATEO)
By:
By:
Name:
Name: Matt Fabry
Title:
Title: Public Works Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM
By:
Name: Linh Nguyen
Title: Assistant City Attorney
APPROVED AS TO FORM
PTCRA Attorney
*If Lead Organization is a corporation, this Agreement must be executed by any person authorized 
by the corporation to bind the corporation to a contract of this nature.
EXHIBIT A
487 of 1111

--- page 488 ---
MAP OF SHUTTLE ROUTE
(Effective July 1, 2025)
EXHIBIT B
SCHEDULE OF SHUTTLE SERVICE
(Effective July 1, 2025)
DRAFT
488 of 1111

--- page 489 ---
EXHIBIT C
MARKETING PROGRAM
(As of July 1, 2025)
489 of 1111

--- page 490 ---
Commute.org has developed a countywide shuttle marketing plan that serves as the basis for 
promoting the shuttle program throughout San Mateo County. Commute.org and its partners use 
a variety of tools to create and execute focused marketing for the shuttle program.
The Commute.org website serves as a primary source of information about the shuttle program. 
Riders, and potential riders, use the site to get information about routes and schedules as well as 
real-time vehicle location tracking. The mobile version of the Commute.org site is optimized to 
provide shuttle riders with streamlined access to the information they need during their commute.
Commute.org maintains and publishes route specific GTFS data that is used by transit planning 
apps including those managed by Google, Apple, 511 and app developers. Passengers can plan 
trips that include shuttles anywhere Commute.org shuttles operate. Route and schedule 
information is also available in hard-copy format.
Commute.org works with the cities and property owners where shuttles operate to install and 
maintain signage indicating where the shuttles stop. New signage is being installed at stop 
locations throughout San Mateo County. 
Commute.org shuttle and employer outreach staff provide presentations about the shuttle 
program directly to employers and their employees as well as at community events. Rider 
appreciation events are conducted throughout the year and allow the Commute.org team to thank 
shuttle riders for their commitment to using shuttles for first/last mile transportation. 
EXHIBIT D
GRANTING ENTITIES
(As of July 1, 2025)
Following are all granting entities requiring acknowledgement on all marketing Collateral:
490 of 1111

--- page 491 ---
1. Commute.org.
2. San Mateo County Transportation Authority (“SMCTA”)
Citing the funding entities in text or official logo form will be deemed acceptable once prior layout 
approval has been obtained from Commute.org Liaison.
THE BALANCE OF THE PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
EXHIBIT E
INDEMNITY INCLUSION
THE BALANCE OF THE PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
12.
RESPONSIBILITY: INDEMNIFICATION
The CONTRACTOR shall indemnify, keep and save harmless the DISTRICT, Peninsula
Traffic Congestion Relief Alliance (PTCRA or Commute.org), the Peninsula Corridor Joint
Powers Board, the City and County of San Francisco, the Santa Clara Valley
Transportation Authority, TransitAmerica Services, Inc. (TASI) or the successor Operator
of Record, the Union Pacific Railroad Company, the Bay Area Air Quality Management
District, City/County Association of Governments, the San Mateo County Transportation
Authority, entities participating in the DISTRICT's shuttle program ("Lead Organizations"),
and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees and participating employers
against any and all suits, claims or actions arising out of any of the following:”
A.
Any injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have 
occurred, arising from the performance of this Agreement by the CONTRACTOR caused 
by a negligent act or omission or willful misconduct of the CONTRACTOR or its 
employees, subcontractors or agents; or
B.
Any allegation that materials or services provided by the CONTRACTOR under 
this Agreement infringe or violate any copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, or any 
other intellectual-property or proprietary right of any third party.
491 of 1111

--- page 492 ---
C. Any claims that may be asserted under Section 13(c) and 15(n)(I) of the Federal
Transit Administration Act of 1964, as amended, or any comparable provisions of federal 
or state law (or under any regulations promulgated thereunder), as said laws or 
regulations now exist or hereafter maybe amended.
The CONTRACTOR further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or
claims and pay all charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses of defenses as they are 
incurred. If any judgment is rendered against the DISTRICT or any of the other entities or 
individuals enumerated above in any such action, the CONTRACTOR shall, at its expense, 
satisfy and discharge the same. This indemnification shall survive termination or expiration of 
the Agreement.
492 of 1111

--- page 493 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  33
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
  Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 25-10059
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16th, 2025
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Monitoring and Upgrade Project – Contract Change 
Order 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order #3 with Technology Management Professionals dba TMPros, LLC in the amount of 
$156,864 to monitor and maintain the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Network at the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant for a revised total contract amount of $485,408; extend the term through June 30, 2026; establish a contingency 
amount of $20,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented 
and issue change orders up to the contingency amount.
Background:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) uses a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) network to remotely 
monitor and control equipment and processes at the WWTP, Dale Avenue Pump Station, and throughout the sewer 
collection system. The system is critical to maintain the operation of these facilities and the network must be monitored 
and maintained as necessary. Technology Management Professionals dba TMPros, LLC (TMPros) has demonstrated the 
competency to monitor, patch, and maintain the WWTP’s network on which the SCADA system operates. 
In June 2023, Council approved an agreement with TMPros for $174,140. In June 2024, Contract Change Order #1 was 
executed to extend the contract term through July 2025. In July 2024, Contract Change Order #2 was executed to increase 
the contract amount by $154,404 for a revised total contract amount of $328,544. 
As part of the Clean Water Program, WWTP staff are currently designing and configuring the SCADA system and network 
for the new wastewater treatment facility. The project upgrade will integrate SCADA systems between the existing WWTP 
and the new wastewater treatment facility. Staff recommends approving the contract change order with TMPros because 
they are already in the process of integrating the SCADA network system and assisting with the network design for the 
new facility, which has been delayed into next fiscal year. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for these services is budgeted in the WWTP Maintenance operating budget. Pending approval and adoption of the 
FY 2025-26 budget, sufficient funding will be available to cover the cost of this contract change order. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
493 of 1111

--- page 494 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Council action is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility this activity will 
have a significant effect on the environment, because this activity relates to software technology support and 
improvements without any necessary physical changes that may impact the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section   
15061(b)(3).)  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order #3
STAFF CONTACT:
Robert Learmonth, WWTP Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
494 of 1111

--- page 495 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER # 3 
PROJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant SCADA Monitoring and Upgrade Project – Change Order
TO: Technology Management Professionals LLC
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO.
3 
Page 1 of 1 
PO/SCON No.
Fund
Cost Center 
Spend Category
720
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Date
5/20/2025
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
Revise section 5- “TERM’’ of the Agreement as follows: The services to be performed under this agreement shall commence upon execution of 
this agreement and be completed on June 30, 2026. 
Revise Section 6- “Payment”- of the Agreement to read as follows:  6.1-The total amount payable to VENDOR under this Agreement shall not 
exceed $485,408. 
Revise the scope of work of the Agreement to include “TMPros Managed IT Services - City of San Mateo WWTP FY 2026’’—Attachment 1. 
Total cost of change not to exceed: $156,864
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor: Technology Management Professionals LLC
By:
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$ 174,140
Previous Change Orders
$ 154,404
Total to date
$ 328,544
This Change Order
$156,864
Revised Contract Price
$485,408
Date Approved: 
By:
Title: 
Matt Fabry, Director of Public Works
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager,
Project Analyst, Project File
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
Other Contractual Services
495 of 1111

--- page 496 ---
Monthly Subtotal
$3,680.00
Monthly Subtotal
$220.00
TMPros
PO Box 280
Atwater, CA 95301
United States
T: +18889557767
Quote #
7214
Date
2025/05/14
Expires
2025/06/01
Contact
Baron Wolt
Prepared for
City of San Mateo Water Works
Rob Learmonth
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
United States
E: rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
TMPros Managed IT Services - City of San Mateo WWTP
Monitoring Services
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
MSP /
Monitoring
Server Monitoring
24x7 Remote Monitoring, Patch Management, Ticketing, and Remote
Management Tools
30
$85.00
$2,550.00†*
MSP /
Monitoring
Workstation Monitoring
24x7 Remote Monitoring, Patch Management, Ticketing, and Remote
Management Tools
4
$35.00
$140.00†*
MSP /
Monitoring
Device Monitoring
24x7 Remote Monitoring of Switches, Routers, Wireless Access Points, Critical
Printers, and Other Network Devices
30
$33.00
$990.00†*
Security Services
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
MSP / Security
Endpoint Detection and Response
Next-generation AI antivirus, prevention, detection, and response solution. 
22
$10.00
$220.00†*
Server and Network Support
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
MSP / Backup
Veeam management
Server Backup (Selective)
Item Discount ($20.00)*
30
$20.00
$600.00
$580.00†*
MSP / Support
Plan
Server Support
Physical Server and Hypervisor Support
30
$80.00
$2,400.00†*
ACCEPT QUOTE
Quote
TMPros - Quote # 7214
1 / 3
496 of 1111

--- page 497 ---
Monthly Subtotal
$3,625.00
Discount
($20.00)
Monthly Subtotal
$267.00
Monthly Subtotal
$5,300.00
* Recurring fees billed monthly with 1 upfront payment(s).
† Non-taxable item
Please contact us if you have any questions.
Monthly Subtotal
$13,092.00
Discount
($20.00)
Total Monthly
$13,072.00 USD
One-Time
$0.00
Recurring Up-front
$13,092.00*
Discount
($20.00)
Total Up-front
$13,072.00 USD
* Recurring fees billed monthly with 1 upfront payment(s).
MSP / Support
Plan
Network Support
DVR/NVR Support Per Camera/Feed
25
$25.00
$625.00†*
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
User Support
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
MSP / Support
Plan
Workstation Support
Workstation Support
3
$89.00
$267.00†*
Project and CIO Services
Category
Item
Qty
Price
Total
Service
Project Services
Services provided as part of a project scope
60
$75.00
$4,500.00*
MSP /
Consulting
CIO Hours
Additional CIO Hours
4
$200.00
$800.00†*
Summary
ACCEPT QUOTE
Quote
TMPros - Quote # 7214
2 / 3
497 of 1111

--- page 498 ---
Cost Breakdown
Category
Monthly Fees
MSP / Monitoring
$3,680.00
MSP / Security
$220.00
MSP / Backup
$600.00
MSP / Support Plan
$3,292.00
Service
$4,500.00
MSP / Consulting
$800.00
Discount
($20.00)
Total
$13,072.00 USD
Billing Code: NV
Quote
TMPros - Quote # 7214
3 / 3
498 of 1111

--- page 499 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  34
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671-
05-5281
File ID: 25-10069
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Centrifuge Parts, Service and Repair Services — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving the award of a three-year agreement with GEA Mechanical Equipment  US, Inc. (GEA) for 
parts, service, and repair services of centrifuges at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $600,000, with two, 
one-year options to extend at $200,000 each, for a potential not-to-exceed total agreement amount of $1,000,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement and no-cost time extensions in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
Centrifuges are vital pieces of equipment in the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) plant process. The centrifuges 
remove water from digested solids to produce a compatible material ("cake") that can then be hauled away to be used for 
either landfill alternate daily cover or land application.  Reducing the liquid content of the cake is critical to reducing the 
cost of hauling. These GEA/WESTFALIA brand units are the last step in the solids handling process and are crucial to 
maintaining compliance in operations. Currently, one of the WWTP’s centrifuges is inoperable, a second requires a major 
service, and the third is due for regular service.  If all the centrifuges become inoperable, digested sludge would not be 
able to be processed. 
For these reasons, being able to purchase parts in a timely manner as well as have GEA factory-trained technicians 
available to perform service is recommended to minimize downtime in the event an operating unit fails. Due to the precise 
nature of centrifuge operation, it is highly recommended to hire factory-trained technicians to complete these repairs. In 
the past, repairs have been conducted by third-party vendors with unsatisfactory results. Additionally, one of the 
centrifuge units is still covered by the manufacturer’s warranty which requires service to be performed by factory-trained 
technicians. GEA/WESTFALIA is the original manufacturer of these units and has factory-trained technicians available 
locally (Patterson, CA) to conduct service or repairs, both at their facility and on-site through GEA. Staff requested a 
proposal from GEA for maintaining the three centrifuges.  
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), Council may approve an award of an agreement 
without competitive bidding when calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. Here, since 
GEA/WESTFALIA is the manufacturer of the centrifuges, it is the only provider that has factory-trained technicians available 
to conduct the service and repairs in a satisfactory manner through GEA.  As provided above, the City has used third-party 
technicians in the past, with unsatisfactory results.  Given the urgent nature of getting the centrifuges serviced and 
repaired with qualified factory-trained technicians, staff recommends for Council adopt a Resolution approving the award 
of a three-year agreement with GEA for parts, service, and repair of the centrifuges at $200,000 annually, with two 
optional one-year extensions also at $200,000 per year, for a total potential agreement amount of $1,000,000, and 
499 of 1111

--- page 500 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
authorizing the Public Works Director to execute the agreement and no-cost time extensions.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the WWTP operating budget to cover the cost of the agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of an agreement for WWTP centrifuge parts, service, and repair services is categorically exempt from CEQA as an 
“existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor 
alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving 
negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Proposed Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
500 of 1111

--- page 501 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH GEA MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT US, INC.
 FOR CENTRIFUGE PARTS, SERVICE, AND REPAIRS SERVICES
WHEREAS, the City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) has three centrifuges to remove water from 
digested solids as part of the wastewater treatment process; and
WHEREAS, these GEA/WESTFALIA brand centrifuges need to be maintained and serviced to avoid the 
stoppage of the wastewater treatment plant; and
WHEREAS, one centrifuge is currently inoperable, and the remaining two need major service or regular 
service; and
WHEREAS, one of the centrifuge units is still covered by the manufacturer’s warranty which requires 
service to be performed by factory-trained technicians; and
WHEREAS, GEA Mechanical Equipment US, Inc. (GEA) provides maintenance and service to 
GEA/WESTFALIA manufactured centrifuges; and
WHEREAS, GEA provides factory-trained technicians to complete service and repairs; and 
               WHEREAS, treatment plant staff have previously used third-party companies other than the GEA to 
perform service with unsatisfactory results; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) agreements may be awarded without 
competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the City Council sets 
forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with GEA because they are the only 
provider of factory-trained technicians able to provide parts, service, and repairs for GEA/WESTFALIA brand 
centrifuges.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public 
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving 
negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.) 
2.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050 (b), calling for bids would be 
impracticable, unavailing, or impossible because:  
a.
The WWTP utilizes three GEA/WESTFALIA brand centrifuges;
501 of 1111

--- page 502 ---
b.
One centrifuge remains under warranty which requires factory-trained technicians; 
c.
One centrifuge is currently inoperable while the remaining two centrifuges require major or 
regular service; 
d.
GEA Mechanical Equipment US, Inc. is the only provider with factory-trained technicians 
available to complete necessary service and repairs;
e.
Immediate maintenance is required for the centrifuges at the Wastewater Treatment Plant;
f.
Delay in maintenance may lead to the stoppage of the treatment plant and may incur 
additional cost to haul the liquid sludge.
3.
The agreement with GEA Mechanical Equipment US, Inc., for centrifuge parts, service, and repair 
services in an amount not to exceed of $1,000,000 is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
submitted on behalf of the City including any necessary no-cost time extensions.
502 of 1111

--- page 503 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 1 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
AGREEMENT WITH GEA MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT U.S., INC.
FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT CENTRIFUGE PARTS, SERVICE, AND REPAIR SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________ 2025, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of 
California ("CITY"), and GEA Mechanical Equipment U.S. Inc., a Delaware corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), 
whose address is 400 S. Wuthering Hills Dr. Janesville, WI 53546.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain equipment maintenance and repair  services on CONTRACTOR’S 
supplied equipment (the “Services”) hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these Services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement (the “Services”), which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. CONTRACTOR warrants 
that the Services (including all materials/spare parts) shall be in good working order and free from 
defects in materials and workmanship for a period of ninety (90) days.  In addition to the foregoing, and 
not in limitation thereof, CONTRACTOR hereby agrees to assign to CITY all rights obtained under 
warranties given by CONTRACTOR's third-party CONTRACTORs and suppliers with respect to the Services 
(including all materials) provided by CONTRACTOR hereunder to the extent same are assignable.  If any 
such warranty is not assignable, CONTRACTOR shall pursue same on CITY’s behalf against the warrantor.  
This warranty of material and workmanship is the only warranty made by CONTRACTOR and is in lieu of all 
other warranties, express or implied, and CONTRACTOR disclaims on behalf of itself and its suppliers any 
and all implied warranties, including, without limitation, warranties of merchantability, fitness for a specific 
purpose (other than the purpose stated in the CITY's specifications set forth in the contract), suitability or 
performance This warranty shall not cover (i) any defects arising from corrosion, abrasion, use of unsuitable 
lubricants, operation outside of prescribed temperature ranges, or negligent attendance or faulty 
operation, (ii) ordinary wear and tear, or (iii) any defects caused by errors on the part of CITY in not providing 
suitable premises in which the equipment is to be located, adequate foundation works, or adequate 
protection against influences within or outside the premises which may affect the equipment or its 
operation.  CONTRACTOR's obligation under this warranty is strictly and exclusively limited to furnishing 
repairs or replacements for equipment or parts determined to be defective on inspection by an authorized 
503 of 1111

--- page 504 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 2 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
representative of CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR assumes no responsibility and shall have no liability for any 
repairs or replacements by CITY without CONTRACTOR's prior written authorization.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the Services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.  CONTRACTOR 
agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, 
which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work.
The CITY is responsible for operating any equipment and use any Services provided hereunder in 
compliance with any applicable written instructions and safety guidelines provided by CONTRACTOR. – 
SECTION 4 - TERM
The Services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of this 
Agreement and continue for a period of three (3) years. At the City’s discretion, up to two (2), one-year 
extensions may be exercised through an amendment of this Agreement, for a total potential 
agreement term of up to five (5) years. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for Services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $600,000.00 pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by 
reference. At its option, the City has two optional, one-year extensions at $200,000 for each extension, 
for a total potential agreement term of five years, and $1,000,000 total agreement amount.
504 of 1111

--- page 505 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 3 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. In such event, CITY shall pay CONTRACTOR for all Services performed to 
date plus any costs incurred in connection with preparing to complete the remaining Services that are 
not otherwise able to be cancelled without costs. 
SECTION 7 - RIGHT TO USE DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are based on 
intellectual property of CONTRACTOR related to the maintenance and repair of CONTRACTOR’s 
equipment and shall remain the sole intellectual property of CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR hereby 
licenses to CITY the right to use anu such documents solely in connection with the use, maintenance 
and repair of the equipment that the Services are performed on..
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
All drawings, notebooks, operating data, specifications, and other information, data and material 
(“Information”) furnished to CITY by CONTRACTOR shall remain the proprietary and confidential property 
of CONTRACTOR, and shall be used by CITY only with respect to the work covered by the Contract and not 
in connection with any other project.  Information shall not be made available to any third party without 
CONTRACTOR's prior written consent. CITY shall not, not permit any third party to, reverse engineer, 
measure or otherwise technically examine or test CONTRACTOR's Goods.  Any Information shall only be 
disclosed by CITY to its employees on a need-to-know basis for the operation, maintenance, and repair of 
the Goods.  Intellectual property or patent rights which may be obtained on the basis of the Information 
or the Goods shall remain the exclusive property of CONTRACTOR. The City shall treat the Information as 
confidential as allowed under law.  In the event the City receives a California Public Record Act request for 
the Information, the CITY shall immediately notify CONTRACTOR so that CONTRACTOR may promptly seek 
an appropriate legal action to prevent disclosure of its Information.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the Services under this Agreement.
505 of 1111

--- page 506 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 4 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 – INDEMNITY AND DAMAGES
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any and all third party claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONTRACTOR’s 
negligence or willful misconduct or the performance of this Agreement to the extent such actions 
result in the personal injury or death or damage to personal property , except for those claims arising 
out of CITY’s negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City of San Mateo and 
the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early 
termination of this Agreement. 
In no event shall CONTRACTOR or its suppliers be liable in contract or in tort or under any other 
legal context or theory, including negligence and strict liability, for any special, punitive, indirect, incidental 
or consequential damages of any kind or character, including, but not limited to, loss of use of productive 
facilities or goods, costs of product recall, plant downtime, damage to or loss of product, chemicals, 
catalysts, feedstock or other raw materials, loss of revenues or profits or loss under purchases or contracts 
made in reliance on the performance or non-performance of the goods or Services, whether suffered by 
CITY or any third party.  Except as provided below, CONTRACTOR's and its suppliers' aggregate 
responsibility and liability, whether arising out of contract or tort or any other legal context or theory, 
including negligence and strict liability, all claims for breach of any warranty or guarantee, failure of 
performance or delay in performance by CONTRACTOR or performance or non-performance of the goods 
shall not exceed the price paid for the Services hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any claims 
for which CONTRACTOR is responsible for indemnity as provided herein for personal injury or death or 
damage to personal property, the monetary cap in the preceding sentence shall not apply and instead a 
separate cap of $3,000,000.00 shall apply.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
506 of 1111

--- page 507 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 5 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
507 of 1111

--- page 508 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 6 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Rob Learmonth
City of San Mateo
2050 Detroit Dt
San Mateo CA 94404
To CONTRACTOR:
GEA Mechanical Equipment U.S., Inc.
Attn:  Evan Walker, President
400 S. Wuthering Hills Dr.
Janesville, WI 53546
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
508 of 1111

--- page 509 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 7 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
509 of 1111

--- page 510 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 8 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove 
named, as of the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Evan Walker 
Its Authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
510 of 1111

--- page 511 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 9 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
•
Minor Service Decanters
Definition:
Visual machine inspection
Inspection of conveyor scroll for wear
Inspection of solids discharge ports and bushings for wear
Lubricant change for Gear Box*
Check oil level and refill if required the central lubrication system
Replacement of oil for the scroll bearings
Inspection of temperature feelers and Oil Pulse sensors
Inspection and adjustment of v-belts and speed sensors
Inspection of vibration monitoring system
Replacement of gaskets and O-Rings for feed –tube
Greasing of motor*
Check functions of PLC (if supplied by GEA)
Test run unit on product or water
Check vibration of unit, both before** and after service
Provide written report detailing overall condition and recommendations
*All lubricants that are provided by customer must be per OEM recommendations.
** Vibration check prior to service when practical.
Parts in accordance with Annex 2
•
Major Service Decanters
Definition:
Visual machine inspection
Inspection of the drive system
When applicable, replacement of the planetary gear’s shaft complete (SMEK) with a factory reconditioned shaft
Replacement of main bowl bearings, seals and O-rings
Replacement of conveyor scroll bearings, seals and O-rings
Inspection of conveyor scroll and bowl discharge ports for wear
Oil exchange Gear Box*
Check oil level and refill the central lubrication system, if required*
Replacement of oil for the scroll bearings*
Replacement of V-belts
Replacement of gaskets and O-Rings for feed –tube; -line and liquid discharge line
Inspection of temperature sensors
Inspection and adjustment of speed sensors
Check functions of PLC (if supplied by GEA)
Test run unit on product or water
Check vibration of unit, both before** and after service
Provide written report detailing overall condition and recommendations
*All lubricants that are provided by customer must be per OEM recommendations.
** Vibration check prior to service when practical.
511 of 1111

--- page 512 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 10 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Rates of attendance for non-scheduled services 
GEA reserves the right to update Rates of attendance for non-scheduled services with 30 days’ notice.
Domestic Service Rates
Effective Aug 1, 2024
Regular Service
Monday – Friday
$220.00 / Hr.
Monday – Friday Overtime
$290.00 / Hr.
Saturday
$290.00 / Hr.
Sunday & Holiday
$348.00 / Hr.
Estimated Freight Charged at cost
Part #: 9300-0002-202 @ $1200.00
Travel Expenses
Airfare, car rental, meals, 
lodging, etc. are charged at 
actual cost.  Use of the company 
service fleet leased, or private 
vehicles is charged at $0.625 
cents/mile.  Travel time will be 
charged at current rates, listed 
above. 
 $125 booking Fee for travel 
Arrangements.
512 of 1111

--- page 513 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 11 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits of $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, 
either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limits of $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising 
out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 
forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
where the claim arises from Contractor’s negligence or willful misconduct as respects the City of San 
Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City of San Mateo and the 
Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents 
shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Contractor shall notify the City of San Mateo of any coverage that is canceled, except after thirty (30) 
days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
513 of 1111

--- page 514 ---
Contract for Services-Estero SB854 (PW)
Page 12 of 12
Rev 9/22
PUBLIC
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District a 
waiver of any right to subrogation which Contractor’s Workers’ Compensation insurer may acquire 
against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor agrees to obtain 
any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies 
regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the 
insurer.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
514 of 1111

--- page 515 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  35
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 25-10076
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Custodial Services — Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 8 to the service agreement with Imperial Maintenance Services, Inc. for Citywide Custodial
Services to increase the agreement by $78,665.32, for a revised total agreement amount not to exceed $6,499,300.54; 
extend the agreement term an additional month to July 31, 2025; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of 
$8,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute Amendment No. 8 in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Fleet and Facilities Division of Public Works contracts with Imperial Maintenance Services, Inc. (Imperial) to perform
scheduled cleaning of City facilities, keeping them in good condition for both staff and members of the public. In February 
2018, a three-year service agreement was awarded by City Council to Imperial for Citywide Custodial Services with an 
annual not-to-exceed amount of $747,600. The approval also allowed for five (5) optional annual extensions of the service 
with annual increases to the budget.
Since the execution of the 2018 agreement, Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 were approved and executed to adjust the term of 
the agreement to align with fiscal year end and set minimum wage requirements to align with the City’s minimum wage
Ordinance instead of the State’s minimum wage requirements. Amendments Nos. 3 through 7 were approved and 
executed to provide the five optional annual term extensions, add annual funding to the agreement, include additional 
cleaning services for new buildings, and account for annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) increases.
Amendment No. 8 will extend the agreement term for an additional month in order to ensure a continuation in custodial 
services until a new long-term contract is in place in August 2025, as well as increase the agreement amount to cover the 
costs of the additional month of service. Therefore, staff recommends amending the existing Citywide Custodial Services 
agreement to Imperial Maintenance Services, Inc. to avoid disruption in service.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for Citywide custodial services is budgeted annually through the operating budgets of the Fleet and Building 
Maintenance Fund and the departments receiving these services for the City facilities each department manages. Pending 
approval and adoption of the Fiscal Year 2025-26 budget, sufficient funding will be available to cover the cost of this 
amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change 
in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
515 of 1111

--- page 516 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 8
STAFF CONTACT
Derek Bahamondes, Facilities Maintenance Supervisor
dbahamondes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7355
Steve Wu, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
516 of 1111

--- page 517 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 8 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
IMPERIAL MAINTENANCE SERVICES, INC. FOR
CITYWIDE CUSTODIAL SERVICES
($747,600.00 [Original Amount], $5,673,035.22 [Amendments 1-7], $78,665.32 [Amendment 8])
This Amendment is made and entered into this day of ____________, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO (“CITY”), a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, and 
IMPERIAL MAINTENANCE SERVICES, INC. (“CONTRACTOR”).
WHEREAS, CITY and CONTRACTOR entered into an Agreement for custodial services for City 
facilities on January 31, 2018; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONTRACTOR have executed Amendment Nos. 1 through 7, which 
included adjusting the agreement term, setting minimum wage requirements, exercising optional 
extensions, expanding the scope of services, and accounting for Consumer Price Index increases; and
WHEREAS, CITY and CONTRACTOR wish to amend the Agreement to increase the Agreement 
amount by $78,665.32, for a total Agreement amount of $6,499,300.54 and extend the term through 
July 31, 2025.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4 - “Term” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on January 31, 
2018, and conclude on July 31, 2025.”.
2.
Section 5 - “Payment” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment requested upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount not to exceed $6,499,300.54.”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
517 of 1111

--- page 518 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Imperial Maintenance Services, Inc. have executed 
this Amendment No. 8 on ___________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry, 
Public Works Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Date
Alfonso Solis
Its Authorized Agent
CEO
Date
_______________________________________
  Linh P. Nguyen,
  Assistant City Attorney
518 of 1111

--- page 519 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  36
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 25-10084
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Community Facilities District - Special Tax Levy Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the levy of special taxes for Fiscal Year 2025-26 for the Community Facilities District No. 
2008-1 (Bay Meadows).
BACKGROUND:
There are various annual reporting requirements with different reporting dates related to the City of San Mateo 
Community Facilities District (CFD) No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows). The requirements include City Council approval of the 
“Annual Levy of Special Tax” resolution authorizing the levy of special taxes within CFD No. 2008-1. The annual levy is 
necessary to pay debt service on the outstanding bonds and to pay for certain public services. Approval is due each year 
prior to the County of San Mateo’s July 31st deadline for the inclusion of such special taxes on the consolidated property 
tax bills pursuant to Government Code Section 53340 of the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982 (the “Act”), or in 
the case of direct billing, at a different time or manner if necessary to meet its financial obligations. 
CFD No. 2008-1 special taxes are for public facilities within the district that encompasses a planned 1,066 residential units 
(832 units on residential parcels and 234 units on mixed-use parcels), 68 below market-rate rental units, 770,000 square 
feet of office space, 85,000 square feet of retail space, 31,500 square feet of professional space above ground floor retail, 
and approx. 135,000 square feet of high school campus and commercial space. The special tax levy is authorized pursuant 
to Section 53340 of the Government Code and Ordinance No. 2012-1.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The special taxes being levied hereunder are at the same rate or at a lower rate than provided by the Ordinance. The total 
fiscal year 2025-26 Special Tax Levy for CFD No. 2008-1 is $5,137,824.21.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This community facilities special district tax is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – CFD No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows) FY 2025-26 Special Tax Requirement
519 of 1111

--- page 520 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
520 of 1111

--- page 521 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
APPROVING THE FISCAL YEAR 2025-26 LEVY OF SPECIAL TAXES AND APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING RELATED 
ACTIONS AND DOCUMENTS
WHEREAS, the Council (the "City Council") of the City of San Mateo (the "City") conducted proceedings 
under and pursuant to the terms and provisions of the "Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982," being 
Chapter 2.5, Part 1, Division 2, Title 5 (beginning with Section 53311) of the Government Code of the State of 
California (the "Act"), to form its Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows), City of San Mateo, 
County of San Mateo, State of California (the "CFD”), to authorize the levy of special taxes (the “CFD Special 
Taxes”) to finance the acquisition and construction of certain public facilities, the payment of certain 
governmental development impact fees and the provision of certain services, and to authorize the issuance of 
debt to finance the facilities and fees, and to establish the appropriations limit for the CFD, all as set forth in the 
City Council's Resolution No. 85 (2008) (the "Resolution of Formation") and Resolution No. 86 (2008) (the 
"Resolution Deeming it Necessary to Incur Bonded Indebtedness," and together with the Resolution of Formation, 
the "Formation Resolutions"), both adopted on August 11, 2008; and
WHEREAS, the authorizations contained in the Formation Resolutions were submitted to the landowner 
qualified elector of the CFD at a special mailed-ballot election on August 11, 2008; and
WHEREAS, the landowner qualified elector within the CFD approved the authorizations contained in the 
Formation Resolutions by a unanimous vote; and
WHEREAS, the City Council commenced proceedings to change the authorizations contained in in the 
Formation Resolutions (the "2011 Change Proceedings") by adopting its Resolution No. 113 (2011) ("Resolution 
of Consideration") on October 3, 2011; and
WHEREAS, the Proposed Amendments contained and defined in the Resolution of Consideration were 
submitted to the landowner qualified elector of the CFD at a special mailed-ballot election on November 21, 2011; 
and
WHEREAS, the landowner qualified elector within the CFD approved the Proposed Amendments 
contained in the Resolution of Consideration by a unanimous vote; and
WHEREAS, the City Council levies special taxes in the CFD pursuant to Ordinance No. 2012-1, which was 
adopted by the City Council on January 3, 2012, which requires City Council approval of each fiscal year’s levy of 
CFD Special Taxes; and
WHEREAS, the Formation Resolutions authorized the issuance of up to $120,000,000 in special tax bonds; 
and
WHEREAS, the 2011 Change Proceedings reduced this authorization to $92,000,000; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act the City issued three series of bonds for the CFD (the “Prior Bonds”):
521 of 1111

--- page 522 ---
(i)
$31,800,000 aggregate principal amount of City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No. 
2008-1 (Bay Meadows) Special Tax Bonds, Series 2012 (the “2012 Bonds”); and
(ii)
$26,000,000 aggregate principal amount of City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No. 
2008-1 (Bay Meadows) Special Tax Bonds, Series 2013 (the “2013 Bonds”); and
(iii)
$28,475,000 aggregate principal amount of City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No. 
2008-1 (Bay Meadows) Special Tax Bonds, Series 2014 (the "2014 Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, as a result of the issuance of the Prior Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $86,275,000, 
the remaining authorization for the issuance of special tax bonds for the CFD (not including refunding bonds as 
defined in the Act) is $5,725,000; and
WHEREAS, for the purpose of refunding the Prior Bonds and achieving debt service savings, the City issued 
on June 30, 2022, its $72,345,000 City of San Mateo Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows) 
Special Tax Refunding Bonds, Series 2022 (the “2022 Refunding Bonds”); and
WHEREAS the Amended and Restated Rate and Method of Apportionment for the CFD (the “RMA”) 
provides that the City may not levy less than 100% of the Assigned Special Tax on Developed Property (as those 
terms are defined in the RMA) unless the City Council has covenanted that it will not issue any additional bonds 
for the CFD except refunding bonds; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the 2022 Refunding Bonds, City staff worked with the Bay 
Meadows master developer, Wilson Meany, to confirm that all infrastructure improvements to be financed by the 
CFD have been made and that no additional CFD bonds will need to be issued in the future, except to refinance 
the outstanding bonds for savings; and
WHEREAS, the Council adopted City Council's Resolution No. 83 (2022) covenanting not to issue additional 
bonds for the CFD except refunding bonds, which will allow the City to pass to property owners in the CFD the 
economic benefit of the refunding of the Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, staff has prepared the proposed Fiscal Year 2025-26 levy of CFD Special Taxes and recommends 
that the Council approve the proposed levy; and
WHEREAS, the CFD encompasses approximately 800 projected residential units and a significant amount 
of non-residential square footage in the Bay Meadows project area; and
WHEREAS, approval of the special tax roll prior to the County of San Mateo’s July 31st deadline for 
inclusion of special taxes on consolidated property tax bills is required pursuant to Government Code Section 
53340 of the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982; and
 WHEREAS, City of San Mateo Ordinance No. 2012-1 (the “Ordinance”) authorizes the Public Works 
Director to determine the special tax amount in accordance with the Rate and Method of Apportionment, prepare 
the annual special tax roll, and present the roll to the City Council for consideration; and
WHEREAS, the Ordinance requires that the Public Works Director be authorized to send the special tax, 
special tax roll, and all necessary and appropriate information to the County of San Mateo Auditor to be included 
in the County secured property tax rolls for collection each fiscal year.
522 of 1111

--- page 523 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This City Council action is not subject to CEQA review because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4)). 
2.
The City Council finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and correct.
3.
The City Council hereby approves the proposed Fiscal Year 2025-26 levy, as presented by staff to 
Council, and authorizes the Public Works Director to effect the levy in accordance with the Act and 
Ordinance No. 2012-1.
4.
The City's officers and staff are hereby authorized and directed, jointly and severally, to do all things 
and to execute and deliver all documents and contracts they deem necessary or advisable to 
accomplish the purposes of this Resolution. All such actions previously taken by City officers and staff 
are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved. 
5.
The Controller is hereby authorized to place up to the assessment, charge, or tax on the property tax 
roll with the following per unit, per square foot, or per acre amounts identified in the table below: 
Furthermore, the lowest per parcel assessment is $0.00, and the expected higher per parcel amount 
will not exceed $500,000. The total Fiscal Year 2025-26 Special Tax Levy for CFD No. 2008-1 is 
$5,137,824.21.
6.
This Resolution shall take effect from and after its date of adoption.
Land
FY 2011- 12
FY 2025- 26
Use
Resi dent i al  Fl oor
Maxi mum
Maxi mum
Cl ass
Descr i pt i on
Ar ea ( squar e f eet )
Locat i on
Speci al  Tax
Speci al  Tax [ 1]
$
1
Gr eat er  t han 2, 300
NA
$5, 405. 00
$7, 131. 78
2
2, 151 t o 2, 300
NA
$5, 288. 00
$6, 977. 40
3
2, 001 t o 2, 150
NA
$4, 989. 00
$6, 582. 88
4
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
1, 851 t o 2, 000
NA
$4, 973. 00
$6, 561. 77
5
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
1, 701 t o 1, 850
NA
$4, 917. 00
$6, 487. 88
6
1, 551 t o 1, 700
NA
$4, 557. 00
$6, 012. 86
7
1, 401 t o 1, 550
NA
$4, 069. 00
$5, 368. 96
8
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
1, 251 t o 1, 400
NA
$3, 701. 00
$4, 883. 39
9
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
1, 101 t o 1, 250
NA
$3, 482. 00
$4, 594. 43
10
951 t o 1, 100
NA
$3, 158. 00
$4, 166. 91
11
801 t o 950
NA
$2, 572. 00
$3, 393. 70
12
Less t han 801
NA
$2, 332. 00
$3, 077. 02
13
Gr eat er  t han 1, 400
NA
$1, 344. 00
$1, 773. 38
14
801- 1, 400
NA
$1, 344. 00
$1, 773. 38
15
Less Than 801
NA
$1, 139. 00
$1, 502. 89
16
NA
NA
$60, 000. 00
$79, 168. 73
17
NA
NA
$1. 77
$2. 330
18
NA
NA
$0. 52
$0. 690
NA
NA
NA
$132, 693. 00
$175, 085. 60
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
[ 1]  The Maxi mum Speci al  Tax i s subj ect  t o 2% escal at i on t hr ough f i scal  year  2060- 61.
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Bel ow Mar ket - Rat e Uni t s
Undevel oped Pr oper t y
Bel ow Mar ket - Rat e Uni t s
Apar t ment  Pr oper t y [ 2]
Non- Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y -  Of f i ce Fl oor  Ar ea
Non- Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y -  Ret ai l  Fl oor  Ar ea
[ 2]  Pur suant  t o t he Rat e and Met hod,  any Assessor ’ s Par cel s or  por t i ons of  Assessor ’ s Par cel s t hat  woul d or di nar i l y be
cl assi f i ed as Apar t ment  Pr oper t y t hat  ar e cr eat ed af t er  t he f i r st  5. 306 Acr es of  Apar t ment  Pr oper t y have al r eady been
est abl i shed wi l l  be cl assi f i ed as Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y wi t h Condomi ni um Uni t s or  BMR Uni t s l ocat ed on t hem,  and each
dwel l i ng uni t  l ocat ed on such Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y wi l l  be subj ect  t o t he same Assi gned Speci al  Taxes and Backup
Speci al  Tax r at es as ar e assi gned t o Condomi ni um Uni t s or  BMR Uni t s,  as appl i cabl e.
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Resi dent i al  Pr oper t y
Bel ow Mar ket - Rat e Uni t s
523 of 1111

--- page 524 ---
DTA
Page 1 
Remaining Fiscal Year 2024-2025 Sources of Funds:
$3,156,418.75
Debt Service on 2022 Bonds
$3,150,234.41
Administrative Expenses
$6,184.34
Remaining Fiscal Year 2024-2025 Obligations:
($3,156,418.75)
Interest Due September 1, 2025
($1,821,418.75)
Principal Due September 1, 2025
($1,295,000.00)
Anticipated Administrative Expenses
($40,000.00)
Fiscal Year 2024-2025 Surplus / (Draw on Reserve Fund)
$0.00
Series 2022 Refunding Bonds
($5,038,087.50)
Interest Due March 1, 2026
($1,789,043.75)
Interest Due September 1, 2026
($1,789,043.75)
Principal Due September 1, 2026
($1,460,000.00)
Administrative Expense Obligations
($40,000.00)
Direct Levy for Payment of Authorized Services
($39,584.36)
Levy for Anticipated Special Tax Delinquencies (0.4%)
($20,152.35)
Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Special Tax Requirement
$5,137,824.21
City of San Mateo
Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows)
Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Special Tax Requirement
524 of 1111

--- page 525 ---
DTA
Page 2 
2012
2026
Land
FY 2011-12
FY 2025-26
Use
Residential Floor
Maximum
Maximum
Class
Description
Area (square feet)
Location
Special Tax Special Tax [1]
1
Greater than 2,300
NA
$5,405.00
$7,131.78
2
2,151 to 2,300
NA
$5,288.00
$6,977.40
3
2,001 to 2,150
NA
$4,989.00
$6,582.88
4
Residential Property
1,851 to 2,000
NA
$4,973.00
$6,561.77
5
Residential Property
1,701 to 1,850
NA
$4,917.00
$6,487.88
6
1,551 to 1,700
NA
$4,557.00
$6,012.86
7
1,401 to 1,550
NA
$4,069.00
$5,368.96
8
Residential Property
1,251 to 1,400
NA
$3,701.00
$4,883.39
9
Residential Property
1,101 to 1,250
NA
$3,482.00
$4,594.43
10
951 to 1,100
NA
$3,158.00
$4,166.91
11
801 to 950
NA
$2,572.00
$3,393.70
12
Less than 801
NA
$2,332.00
$3,077.02
13
Greater than 1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,773.38
14
801-1,400
NA
$1,344.00
$1,773.38
15
Less Than 801
NA
$1,139.00
$1,502.89
16
NA
NA
$60,000.00
$79,168.73
17
NA
NA
$1.77
$2.330
18
NA
NA
$0.52
$0.690
NA
NA
NA
$132,693.00
$175,085.60
Land
Units /
Maximum
* Step 1 *
tep 2 *
* Step 2 *
FY 2025-26
Percent
Use
Acreage as
FY 2025-26
Special
Special
Special
Special Tax
Levy of
Class
5/1/2025
Special Taxes
Tax Levy
Levy
Tax Levy
Per Unit/Acre
Maximum
1
75
$534,883.50
$432,054.42
NA
$5,760.73
80.78%
2
38
$265,141.20
$214,168.93
NA
$5,636.02
80.78%
3
24
$157,989.12
$127,616.38
NA
$5,317.35
80.78%
4
45
$295,279.65
$238,513.39
NA
$5,300.30
80.78%
5
61
$395,760.68
$319,677.37
NA
$5,240.61
80.78%
6
58
$348,745.88
$281,700.96
NA
$4,856.91
80.78%
7
101
$542,264.96
$438,016.82
NA
$4,336.80
80.78%
8
121
$590,890.19
$477,294.06
NA
$3,944.58
80.78%
9
16
$73,510.88
$59,378.73
NA
$3,711.17
80.78%
10
31
$129,174.21
$104,341.02
NA
$3,365.84
80.78%
11
21
$71,267.70
$57,566.79
NA
$2,741.28
80.78%
12
5
$15,385.10
$12,427.38
NA
$2,485.48
80.78%
13
24
$42,561.12
$34,378.93
NA
$1,432.46
80.78%
14
25
$44,334.50
$35,811.38
NA
$1,432.46
80.78%
15
2
$3,005.78
$2,427.93
NA
$1,213.97
80.78%
16
5.306
$420,069.28
$339,312.74
NA
$63,948.88
80.78%
17
1,039,952
$2,423,088.16
$1,957,259.74
NA
$1.88
80.78%
18
10,545
$7,276.05
$5,877.26
NA
$0.56
80.78%
Undev
4.831
$845,865.67
NA
$0.00
$0.00
NA
TOTAL
NA
$7,206,493.63
$5,137,824.21
$0.00
NA
NA
Residential Property
City of San Mateo
Community Facilities District No. 2008-1 (Bay Meadows)
Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Maximum Special Tax Rates
Residential Property
Residential Property
[1] The Maximum Special Tax is subject to 2% escalation through fiscal year 2060-61.
Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Special Tax Levy
Residential Property
Below Market-Rate Units
Undeveloped Property
Below Market-Rate Units
Apartment Property [2]
Non-Residential Property - Office Floor Area
Non-Residential Property - Retail Floor Area
[2] Pursuant to the Rate and Method, any Assessor’s Parcels or portions of Assessor’s Parcels that would ordinarily be
classified as Apartment Property that are created after the first 5.306 Acres of Apartment Property have already been
established will be classified as Residential Property with Condominium Units or BMR Units located on them, and each
dwelling unit located on such Residential Property will be subject to the same Assigned Special Taxes and Backup
Special Tax rates as are assigned to Condominium Units or BMR Units, as applicable.
Residential Property
Residential Property
Residential Property
Residential Property
Below Market-Rate Units
525 of 1111

--- page 526 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  37
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-10063
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council and Boards and Commission Rules and Procedures – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the proposed amendments to the Rules and Procedures for both the City Council and Boards and Commissions to 
reflect the direction provided by City Council, primarily regarding the Chapter on conduct of Council Members and 
Commissioners.
BACKGROUND:
At an offsite, facilitator-led workshop on May 10, 2025, held at the San Mateo Senior Center, the City Council received a 
staff presentation, heard public comment, and directed staff to develop a formal enforcement mechanism for the City 
Council and Boards and Commissions Code of Conduct.
This direction builds on an initial discussion held during the February 22, 2025, Blue Sky Workshop and reflects the 
Council’s continued commitment to fostering values of respect, integrity, and transparency city governance. The proposed 
amendments are outlined in Attachments 1 and 3 (City Council and Boards and Commissions).
Below is a summary of the proposed City Council Code of Conduct enforcement process:
-
Informal Resolution: Where Council members are allegedly not following the rules set forth within the Code of 
Conduct, any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve concerns on an informal basis, either through 
direct conversations or through private counseling by the Mayor (or Deputy Mayor, if the Mayor’s conduct is at 
issue).
-
Filing a Complaint: If the alleged offense(s) persist, or are serious in nature, two Council members may jointly 
submit a complaint to the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City Attorney, which will be agendized 
for initial Council consideration. The Council Member who is the subject of the complaint may include a response 
for inclusion within the agenda packet and/or verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting.
-
Initial Council Review:  At this initial council review, upon hearing the complaint, the Council may: (1) choose to 
take no action; (2) issue a reprimand, requiring additional ethics training be completed; (3) schedule the matter for 
a future hearing to consider a formal resolution of censure; or (4) Direct the City Manager or City Attorney to 
investigate the matter directly or through a third party, and bring back the results to the City Council following the 
investigation.
-
Censure Hearing: If a Council majority directs the scheduling of a hearing to consider a formal action of censure, it 
should appoint one or two Council Members to draft the proposed censure resolution.  The Council Member who 
is the subject of the complaint will have an opportunity to rebut allegations. However, the formal rules of evidence 
shall not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.
-
Final Action: Following the censure hearing, the Council may decide to: (1) take no action; 2) issue a reprimand, 
526 of 1111

--- page 527 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
requiring additional ethics training be completed; (3) adopt a formal resolution of censure, potentially including penalties 
including revoking committee assignments, revoking seniority in the mayoral rotation, and restriction of expenses, 
including travel. All decisions are final and not subject to appeal or reconsideration.
The enforcement process proposed for Boards and Commissions mirrors the steps outlined above for City Council, 
including informal resolution, complaint submission, Council review, and potential formal action. However, a key 
distinction is that all complaints involving Commissioners are initiated and addressed by the City Council, rather than the 
applicable Commission body. Specifically, Council Members are responsible for identifying and pursuing informal or formal 
resolution of any alleged misconduct by Commissioners. The Council retains full authority over the review, investigation, 
and determination of appropriate action in these matters. These proposed revisions are intended to apply only to future 
conduct and cannot be used to address actions that occurred before their adoption.
Related Amendments:
During the May 10, 2025, Special Meeting, Council provided staff with direction to make additional amendments related to 
the Code of Conduct for City Council and Boards and Commissions, these are summarized as follows. Referenced sections 
are from the City Council Code of Conduct, and the citation may differ for the Boards and Commissions document.
1.
Chapter 6 - Section 1: 
Council Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of impropriety, and running 
our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall: …
2.
Chapter 6 – Section 1(M):
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, Communication, sections regarding “Speaking 
for the City” and “Speaking as an Individual”).
3.
Chapter 6 – Section 1(P):
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public duties, including conflict-of-interest 
laws.
4.
Chapter 6 – Section 1(Q): (this is already part of the Code of Conduct for Board and Commissions)
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on the dais, except as necessary to 
access agenda materials or respond to urgent personal matters.
5.
Chapter 6 – Section 1(R):
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-judge any matter, and be fair and 
neutral towards all concerned parties. This applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those 
posted on social media.  At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral or written 
communications from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the nature and substance of the 
communication.
Ethics Training for All Commissioners:
At the direction of the City Council, all members of City Boards and Commissions will be required to take ethics training at 
least once every two years, beginning with a training in 2025. Thus, members will have more than six months to complete 
their first training.  Training designed for Assembly Bill 1234 (AB 1234) will meet this requirement. The City Clerk’s office 
will make training materials available online to Board and Commission members.  
1.
Chapter 6 – Section 4: 
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning with calendar year 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
527 of 1111

--- page 528 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Rules & Procedures – Tracked Changes
Att 2 – Boards and Commissions Rules & Procedures – Tracked Changes
Att 3 – City Council Rules & Procedures – Clean
Att 4 – Boards and Commissions Rules & Procedures – Clean
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney
prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
528 of 1111

--- page 529 ---
City Council Rules and Procedures 
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Amended by Council action on: 
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, and July 15, 2024
529 of 1111

--- page 530 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
2
City of San Mateo Council Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council ....................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles .......................................................................................5
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................7
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor ..................................................................10
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct.......................................................................................12
Chapter 7.
Meetings.................................................................................................................15
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas....................................................................................................20
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................23
Chapter 10. Communication ......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11. Legislative...............................................................................................................33
Chapter 12. Council Liaison Roles ..............................................................................................36
Chapter 13. Boards and Commissions........................................................................................39
Chapter 14. References..............................................................................................................42
530 of 1111

--- page 531 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This handbook describes the way for the San Mateo City Council to conduct its business and the 
expectations for members, staff, and the public to operate and engage with each other and the 
community as a whole. It is a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that have 
been formally adopted by Council. 
The purpose of these Rules and Procedures (Rules) is to set a standard of professionalism, 
civility, and decorum for the conduct of the City Council’s business. San Mateo has a long and 
proud tradition of open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules are 
intended to enhance public participation and Council debate so that the best possible decisions 
can be made for San Mateo. 
Revisions to these Rules and Procedures
Amendments to these Rules must be approved by the City Council as a body and are subject to 
review and future modification as needed.
City Council Vision
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website:
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167
531 of 1111

--- page 532 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
4
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council
1.
The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define 
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council.
2.
General Authorities and Applicability
Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall 
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of 
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution, or laws of the State of California, these City 
Council Rules shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council.
3.
Revisions to these Rules
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century, shall apply.
532 of 1111

--- page 533 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
5
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles
In 2022, the City conducted its first by-district election for City Council members, with districts 
1, 3, and 5 holding district elections in November 2022 and districts 2 and 4 to hold its first 
district elections in November 2024. This new election process changes how council members 
are elected, but not how they govern. It is the intent of the City Council to continue the practice 
of governing with a citywide perspective. The City Council acts as a body, not as individuals. An 
overriding principle is that all members of the City Council continue to serve all of the people of 
San Mateo.
Key Governance Principles
1.
Serving the Entire Community
A.
The City Council wishes to remain united in its service to the community and will 
govern by considering the needs and interests of the community as a whole.
B.
Members of the City Council will continue to serve all residents, regardless of 
whether they live within their district. Members of the City Council may be 
responsive to requests from anyone in the community.
2.
City Management and Governance
Professional management in a Council-Manager form of government will continue with all 
of the best management practices that the City Council currently receives. 
3.
Use of City Resources
A.
The City Council will strive to use taxpayer resources efficiently and effectively 
while providing consistent services for all residents. Resources will be allocated 
based on the City’s long-term strategic plan and citywide considerations of service 
levels and financial capacity. 
B.
Budget allocations and financial considerations will not be made based on districts.
4.
Distribution of Council Duties and Events
Fair distribution of duties and assignments is a priority. Long-standing practices regarding 
invitations to members of the City Council to events and activities, appointments to 
committees and various bodies, and the process for board and commission appointments, 
will remain in effect.
533 of 1111

--- page 534 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
6
5.
Communications and Access to Information
A.
Council members will have equal access to information. Information necessary for 
the City Council to govern on a citywide basis will be shared with all City 
Councilmembers.
B.
Communication resources will be provided on a citywide and/or program-level 
basis with equitable distribution across districts, while being consistent with legal 
requirements prohibiting the use of public resources for campaign purposes
 
534 of 1111

--- page 535 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
7
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Council
A.
Refer to the Charter of the City of San Mateo for a detailed description of codified 
duties of the City Council.
B.
Disaster Responsibilities
1.
In the event of a disaster, the City Council holds the following roles:
a.
Primarily, to make decisions that will enable  emergency operations 
to continue effectively.
b.
To assist in the conveyance of public information.
2.
Reference the “Elected Officials’ Guide to Managing Disasters” from the 
California Office of Emergency Services for a detailed description of the 
roles and responsibilities of Council Members in times of disaster. 
2.
Duties of Mayor
A.
To conduct meetings of the City Council as its chairperson.
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents and opponents, are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Mayor should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period restate, if any,  relevant 
questions raised from the public and direct questions or comments 
requiring a response to staff for a response. 
b.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the presiding officer and members.
c.
Help keep Council Member questions and comments relevant to 
the matter being considered by the Council.
535 of 1111

--- page 536 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
8
d.
Consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of the meeting 
is being disrupted. 
e.
Announce the decision and vote of the Council on all items, this 
may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, the City Manager, 
City Attorney, or key staff presenting.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Council is provided an opportunity to 
completely express their views on items of business, the Mayor should:
a.
Actively seek Council Member comments and ensure that Council 
Members ask to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each Council Member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing a Council Member to make 
another statement – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each Council Member is given the opportunity to fully 
express their views.
B.
To represent City Government as its chief elected official at community functions, 
events, meetings, and business outreach and retention visits.
C.
On behalf of the City Council, to officially welcome dignitaries, officials, and special 
event gatherings.
D.
To vote on behalf of the Council at regional meetings such as the San Mateo 
County Council of Cities/City Selection Committee, provided that the vote is not 
inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed Council consensus. 
This is expected protocol for any Council Member who represents the City on any 
regional bodies.
E.
To correspond on behalf of the Council on subjects, issues, and legislative 
proposals provided that opinions expressed on behalf of the Council or City 
Government are not inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed 
Council consensus. 
F.
To vote as the City’s “voting delegate” at the League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and other similar meetings. This responsibility may be delegated to 
another Council Member by action of the City Council.
G.
To review the agendas of meetings of the City Council and participate in their 
preparation as necessary.
536 of 1111

--- page 537 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
9
H.
To recommend Council Members for liaison positions on various boards, 
commissions and agencies. The Mayor’s recommendations shall be discussed and 
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council and are subject to change.
I.
To serve as the City’s primary media spokesperson in coordination with City staff. 
Appropriate City staff should always be alerted to media contact.
J.
Nothing under the Mayor’s duties shall limit any individual Council Member’s 
ability to interact with members of the public.
K.
The Mayor is still subject to all duties of Council Members as listed below in 
number 4.
3.
Duties of Deputy Mayor
In the absence of the Mayor from the City or a Council meeting, the Deputy Mayor shall 
possess all powers of the office of the Mayor; and be subject to all prescribed duties for 
that office.
4.
Duties of Council Members
A.
Arrive on time for all Council meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Council consideration.
D.
Fulfill the appointed and liaison assignments to internal and external agencies, 
legislators, and the City’s boards and commissions, with all due diligence needed 
for the requirements of that particular assignment. 
E.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Mayor in running an efficient 
and effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping 
ensure all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Council members are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
F.
All Council Members are asked to alert appropriate staff when receiving media 
inquiries.
537 of 1111

--- page 538 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
10
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor
1.
City Council reorganization, including rotation of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
occurs annually at the regular meeting in December. 
2.
The City Council believes that experience as a Council Member will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and that it is in the City’s best interest that 
these selections be made in a manner that permits the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to gain 
that experience in cycles of governing and to acclimate themselves to the jobs, tasks, and 
roles prior to assuming their respective offices. 
3.
It is appropriate to base such succession on rotation and seniority according to the 
following:
A.
Each Council Member has a specified position in the rotation sequence. In any 
year, the first person in the sequence is typically selected as Mayor, and the 
second in the sequence as the Deputy Mayor. 
B.
After serving as Mayor, that Council Member moves to the end of the rotation 
sequence, and the other four Council Members move forward.
C.
When a Council Member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled 
election), that new Council Member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, 
after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor. 
D.
If two or more Council Members are newly elected or appointed at the same time, 
the newly elected or appointed Council Members shall draw lots to determine 
their position relative to one another in the rotational sequence. 
E.
If a Council Member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that Council Member 
will go to the end of the rotational list.
F.
Incumbent Council Members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the end of 
the list, but rather retain their placement in the rotation.
G.
If for any reason (death, resignation, recall, not seeking re-election, etc.) a Council 
Member is removed from the rotation, the remaining Council Members move 
forward in the sequence. 
H.
A Council Member may decline to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor. In this case, 
the office would pass to the next Council Member on the list. The Council Member 
who declined will drop back one position in the rotation.
538 of 1111

--- page 539 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
11
4.
When the Council reorganizes, the outgoing Mayor will nominate the Deputy Mayor to 
succeed him/her. The newly appointed Mayor will then nominate the next Council 
Member in the rotational sequence to serve as Deputy Mayor for the coming year.
5.
The process described above shall guide the Council’s selection of the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor; however, a majority of the City Council retains the authority to disregard the 
process and select any member of the City Council for these positions.
6.
The City Clerk shall keep a list outlining the rotational sequence and update it annually.
539 of 1111

--- page 540 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
12
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct
1.
Council Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Mayor normally speaks last. After other members of the Council have offered 
their opinions, the Mayor speaks. The Mayor can speak after each round of 
speaking by Council Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized. 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the City Manager and City 
Attorney out of respect and teamwork. 
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
540 of 1111

--- page 541 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
13
A.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
B.
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters.
A.C. When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties. This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those post on social 
media. At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral 
or written from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the nature and 
substance of the communication.
B.
2.
Council Members shall not participate as a volunteer in any of the City’s operating 
departments.
3.
Council Members are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment, Discrimination 
and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301).
4.
Council Members shall complete ethics training as required by state law.
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Council member is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this 
Chapter (“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to 
resolve the matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by 
referral to the Mayor (or the Deputy Mayor if the Mayor’s conduct is at issue) to 
privately counsel the subject Council member.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of 
another Council Member for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The 
complaint shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City 
Manager and City Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to 
the Council.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next available City 
Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint may include a written response to be included with the agenda 
packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject Council 
member and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to any 
541 of 1111

--- page 542 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
14
training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to consider 
a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority and/or committee assignments 
(both internal and inter-governmental), and/or restrict payment of expenses such as 
for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the City Manager or City 
Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party to do so, and bring it 
back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
A.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
B.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to:  
(1) take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Council member to 
promptly take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a 
censure resolution, revoke seniority and/or committee assignments (both internal 
and inter-governmental) and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for official 
travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal or 
reconsideration.  
542 of 1111

--- page 543 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
15
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Council decisions must be taken at City Council meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under council discussion with colleagues should Council Member opinions be shared and 
deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the Council at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently serving).
3.
Council Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Council falls on a holiday, the regular 
meeting shall be held on the next business day or the earliest business day within 
a week.
B.
Once a year, adopt a schedule of Council meetings for the following year 
identifying any regular meeting dates that need to move due to major holidays or 
other conflicts.
C.
Meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Council.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are conducted at City Hall Council Chambers on the first and 
third Monday nights of each month. In July, August, and December, only one 
meeting is held during the month. The regular meetings are held not earlier than 
6:30 pm.  It is City policy to make every effort to complete and distribute the 
agenda and related reports by the preceding Thursday. For major complex projects 
and policies, the City will make every effort to distribute reports as early as 
possible before the meeting when the item will be considered.
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Mayor or Council with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the City Council, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on a regular City Council 
meeting. At study sessions, Council Members may state their individual responses 
and questions to the information provided and may collectively provide direction 
to City staff. No action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
543 of 1111

--- page 544 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
16
D.
Closed Sessions can be part of either special or regular meetings. The Council 
conducts its business in public to the greatest extent possible. State law recognizes 
that public discussion of certain items could jeopardize the public interest, 
compromise the City’s position, or cost the citizens of San Mateo financially, and, 
therefore; generally allows the City Council to hold closed session meetings for the 
consideration of certain personnel matters, labor negotiations, real property 
negotiations, matters of public security, and the discussion of litigation, among 
other things. These rules provide for strict confidentiality of City Council discussion 
as required by State law. The procedures for the conduct of the closed sessions 
shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the public, after 
an opportunity for public comment, are excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages. In the event a quorum of the City 
Council loses electrical power or suffers an internet connection outage not 
corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be adjourned to a date certain. Any 
items noticed as public hearings will be continued to the next regularly scheduled 
meeting of the City Council. Any other agenda items the Council has not taken 
action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Council shall be required for any formal 
action of Council unless the law or charter require a different threshold.
6.
The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Council, may change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
Members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the legislative 
process by submitting written comments before the meeting or speaking in person 
or virtually when offered, at a meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of jeers or 
cheers that may discourage public participation. For this reason, these rules are 
taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior may result in removal from the 
Council meeting.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which speakers must stay 
on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general public 
544 of 1111

--- page 545 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
17
comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction of the City. If 
speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they continue to disregard 
the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Mayor may, at their discretion with Council concurrence, limit the amount of 
time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
E.
Generally, time limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers: 
•
between 1 -10: 3 minutes
•
between 11-20: 2 minutes
•
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers of the group) – up to five (5) 
minutes, for a group presentation, as many speakers are allowed as fit in 
that time allowance.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
F.
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone to ensure all 
attendees, in person and remote, can adequately hear comments, and so that it 
can be captured on the video recording.
G.
Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the City Clerk, or 
use the raise your hand feature virtually, to be called up at the appropriate time. 
The Clerk will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted
545 of 1111

--- page 546 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
18
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff
F.
Council discussion and deliberation
G.
Council votes
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated in #8 with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers - as outlined in Section 7(D)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant only one 15 minute presentation is 
allowed
7.
Tenant Relocation Appeals Hearings – both the Landlord and the Tenant 
shall each be given 15 minutes to present, and each shall have a 5-minute 
rebuttal.
B.
Appeals from decisions of the City’s Boards and Commissions shall appear on the 
Council agenda for discussion. Council determines whether to affirm the action of 
the commission, refer the matter back to the commission, or reverse the decision. 
C.
Any person that addressed the Council during one of the fifteen-minute periods 
may not speak again during the public comment period for individual speakers on 
the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
At 11:00 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, Council will determine 
with a majority vote whether to continue with an item or if they will take up any 
remaining unheard items.
546 of 1111

--- page 547 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
19
11.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council shall use Action Minutes (action minutes contain very little, if any, 
narrative content) or light summary at the discretion of the City Clerk, to record 
their proceedings.
B.
Motions and votes are shown in the record.
C.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used in order to provide a verbatim record 
of meetings as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
12.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Council Member they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the City Council, 
the Council Member should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the City Council, 
the City Manager, and the City Clerk.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which they have a conflict of 
interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar.
547 of 1111

--- page 548 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
20
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
City Council agendas will be prepared by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council 
in the order described below.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
3.
AB 2449 Member requests to join virtually for Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – vote is required
B.
Ceremonial Matters
The presentation and receipt of ceremonial resolutions and celebrations not 
requiring formal legislative action. In order to ensure the business of the meeting 
can be handled timely, no more than three (3) items will be scheduled under 
ceremonial in any meeting. 
C.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be 
routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Council Member and considered 
separately. Members of the Public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.
D.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the City Council at this time. State law prevents Council from 
taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred to staff 
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes unless Council by 
majority extends the total time; however, an opportunity for additional public 
comment may be provided later in the agenda, if needed. Timing as per Chapter 7 
E(1) of these Rules.
E.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the Council.
548 of 1111

--- page 549 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
21
F.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
G.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
H.
Reports and Announcements
City Manager, City Attorney, and Council Members, report on their various 
assignments and liaison roles, and Council Members may make individual requests 
to schedule future items for consideration. A majority vote or consensus of Council 
is required to place a request on a future agenda. If a Council Member is going to 
make a request to agendize an item, such as a resolution of support that they have 
proposed wording for, or a sample copy of a proposed resolution, that item should 
be sent to the Clerk for distribution to members no later than the time of the 
agenda packet issuance and in advance of the meeting in order to give the other 
Council Members adequate time to review and determine if it is something they 
would like to support.
I.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
J.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
Persons who can place matters on the agenda: City Manager or City Attorney
B.
Council Member: 
1.
A Council Member may request an item be considered on a future agenda. 
Before the decision is made, staff will provide information on how much 
staff time is estimated to be required to produce the agenda report. Then 
with a majority vote or consensus of Council, staff will prepare an agenda 
report and place the item on a future agenda. 
2.
Council Members may make this request verbally during a meeting or may 
submit a written request. 
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Council action in the following ways:
549 of 1111

--- page 550 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
22
a.
Write a letter or email to the City Council
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a City Council meeting
c.
Attend annual Council goal setting meeting and provide input
2.
Upon agreement of a majority of the City Council, Council will determine 
whether to place an item requested by the public on a future agenda.
550 of 1111

--- page 551 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
23
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
Council Member Compensation
A.
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516).
B.
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation).
C.
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses.
D.
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website.
2.
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met:
a.
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City.
b.
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business.
c.
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels.
d.
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval.
e.
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value).
f.
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and/or its residents.
g.
Attending City events.
551 of 1111

--- page 552 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
24
h.
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member.
2.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
3.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
552 of 1111

--- page 553 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
25
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Council members are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (Per Diem Rates | GSA). This maximum applies to the 
room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government rates 
for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay only 
for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual Council 
members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will be paid 
by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that an employee elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
553 of 1111

--- page 554 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
26
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Council members only need to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
554 of 1111

--- page 555 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
27
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
555 of 1111

--- page 556 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email communications, texts and other social media platform 
writing involving City Council Members and members of boards, commissions, 
committees, and task forces, the subject of which relate to the conduct of government or 
the performance of any governmental function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the 
Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any other 
privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Council Member should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Mail Processing
A.
Members of the City Council may receive mail and other materials through City 
Hall. 
B.
City Clerk staff open all incoming mail for the Mayor and Council Members, unless 
it is labeled personal and confidential.
C.
City Clerk’s Office staff disseminate these materials to individual Council Members. 
City Staff will scan and email correspondence. 
D.
General correspondence addressed to Council Members as a whole will be opened 
and delivered to all Council Members. A correspondence addressed to a single 
Council Member on a topic that is the subject matter jurisdiction of the city and/or 
due to come on an upcoming agenda will be shared with all Council Members.
5.
Correspondence
A.
The City Clerk is authorized to receive and take administrative action on all 
correspondence directed to the City Council. The City Clerk may also respond to 
correspondence submitted to the full City Council on non-agenda items or 
authorize a staff member to respond. A courtesy copy is provided to each Council 
Member.
B.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific City Council agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of the agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the City Council prior to 
556 of 1111

--- page 557 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
29
the City Council meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is 
appended to the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in 
the records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, will also 
be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
C.
After the City Council has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Council Members who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official City Council title, and staff support should not be utilized. 
D.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as staff support, cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes, See also Section 12 of this Chapter. 
6.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
B.
Communications on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
C.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
7.
Social Media Use as a Council Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, 
etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Council Members choose to maintain and use personal social media accounts to 
conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, as well as 
Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
557 of 1111

--- page 558 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
30
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment: Councilmember social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements. If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum. The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content. In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Council Members. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Council or City. Members 
should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or Council are 
achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, not by any 
individual council member.
D.E. Quasi-Judicial Capacity: see Chapter 6 (Council Member Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Council Members are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.
8.
Written Communications for Council Meetings
D.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm the Wednesday before the Council meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting any item 
being heard by the City Council. 
E.
To be included in the Dais packet, communication may be received up until 4:00 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
558 of 1111

--- page 559 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
31
F.
Materials distributed to Council Members during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Council Member, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by 
another person.
G.
If a Council Member receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall 
forward it to the City Clerk and the City Manager as soon as possible.
H.
If late correspondence is received, the City Council will determine at the meeting 
whether to continue or refer the item to the appropriate Board and/or 
Commission if significant changes to a project, or significant new information has 
become known.
9.
Council Communication to Boards and Commissions
A.
Council Members should be mindful not to unduly influence—through their 
attendance—the decision at a Board or Commission meeting so as to protect the 
independent process of that body.
B.
It is not appropriate for a Council Member to make public comments at a Board or 
Commission meeting.
10.
Council – Staff Relations
A.
Individual Council Members may make requests of City staff through the City 
Manager or Department Head for limited research and information without the 
formal concurrence of a majority of the members’ colleagues. Requests that will 
require significant staff time may be referred to the full Council and only pursued if 
supported by a majority of the Council.
B.
Council Members are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to 
the City Manager or Department Head (including copying the City Manager) as far 
in advance of the meeting as possible so that Staff can be prepared to respond at 
the Council meeting. 
C.
Council Members should direct any questions on agenda reports to the City 
Manager or their designee, usually the staff member presenting. 
D.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
E.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Council 
Members.
11.
Speaking for “the City”
559 of 1111

--- page 560 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
32
Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the response should reflect the 
position of the City Council as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on a 
matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in support 
of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important that those 
in attendance gain an understanding of the City Council’s position rather than that of an 
individual member.
12.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the City 
Council has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in their 
communications that they are not speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for 
themselves as an individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support 
may be utilized in these circumstances, except it may not be used for personal or political 
purposes (see also 5(D) of this chapter). 
560 of 1111

--- page 561 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
33
Chapter 11.
Legislative
1.
Council Legislative Committee
A.
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development 
of the City’s position on significant pending federal and state legislation that may 
directly impact the City of San Mateo.
B.
The offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are the Council’s Legislative Committee.
C.
The Legislative Committee may meet annually or as needed to draft the City’s 
legislative priorities; and shall meet when necessary to develop recommendations 
for the City’s position on legislative matters. 
D.
Pending legislation for consideration by the Legislative Committee can be 
submitted to the Committee by a Council Member, City Manager, or by a 
Commission Staff Liaison if a majority of their commission voted in favor of 
submission to the Legislative Committee.
E.
The Committee’s recommendations shall be presented to the City Council for its 
consideration; if there is a pressing and urgent need to comment on pending 
legislation and getting approval in a City Council meeting is not practical, the 
Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate with legislators 
and copy the entire City Council on the communication and provide a brief report 
of action taken under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council 
meeting
F.
The Council shall direct the Mayor or other City official to communicate the City’s 
position on legislative matters to the appropriate legislative bodies.
2.
Ceremonial Matters
A.
There are several different types of action the Council may take to provide 
recognition or express appreciation:
1.
Certifications of Appreciation or Recognition
Commendations typically issued to acknowledge the activities of a person 
or organization. These certificates may be issued by any member of the 
Council without formal action. Examples of traditional recipients would 
include departing Board and Commission Members, high school students 
with 4.0 grade point averages, Chamber of Commerce Outstanding 
Businesses Awards, recognizing Eagle Scouts, winners of local art or speech 
contests, etc.
561 of 1111

--- page 562 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
34
2.
Commendatory Resolutions
Typically used to handle matters requiring some type of formal 
memorialization such as the retirement of a long-tenured employee, or 
outgoing Mayor or Council Member. These are not voted on like a standard 
Resolution of Council action would be.
3.
Proclamations
Public announcements directing attention to a person, organization, or 
event. Proclamations will be issued subject to the policy described below.
B.
Preparation of City Proclamations
1.
It is the policy of the City Council to issue proclamations for certain events 
or causes, when such a proclamation positively impacts the community and 
conveys an affirmative message to residents. Examples of causes for which 
proclamations are regularly and routinely issued include, but are not 
limited to: notable accomplishments by citizens, youth groups, schools, 
local organizations, non-profit groups, and local events that deserve special 
recognition. Discretion should be used in determining whether or not to 
issue a proclamation. Proclamations that are political in nature, are 
controversial, or that likely would not enjoy a high level of community 
interest and support, are discouraged. 
2.
It will be the policy of the City Council to process requests for 
proclamations in the following manner:
a.
The City Clerk will review the request with the Mayor. 
b.
If the Mayor determines that the proclamation request is consistent 
with the policy stated above, the Mayor will direct the City Clerk to 
prepare the proclamation and the proclamation will be issued.
c.
If the Mayor determines the proclamation request is not consistent 
with the policy stated above, the request will be routed to the other 
Council Members to determine if there is interest in issuing the 
proclamation.
d.
If a Council Member has interest in issuing the proclamation that 
the Mayor determined was not consistent with this policy, that 
Council Member will sponsor the item and shall be responsible for 
drafting the language to be contained in the proclamation. The 
sponsor Council Member shall provide the draft proclamation 
language to the City Clerk.
562 of 1111

--- page 563 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
35
e.
Upon receipt of the draft proclamation language, the City Clerk will 
place the item for consideration to considering issuing the 
proclamation on the Consent Calendar at the next available 
meeting. The proclamation will be issued upon a majority vote of 
the Council in support of issuing the proclamation. Depending on 
the nature and time-sensitivity of the request, the Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor can act without full formal concurrence of the 
Council when the situation warrants.
563 of 1111

--- page 564 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
36
Chapter 12.
Council Liaison Roles
1.
The City Council will collectively review and approve liaison appointments. The 
recommended appointments will, to the best of the Council’s ability, attempt to match 
the requested positions with the needs of the respective body and the experience of the 
Council Member, while also attempting to equitably balance the distribution of 
assignments.
2.
It is generally suggested that newly elected Council Members undertake a limited number 
of assignments during their first year, to allow opportunity to gain familiarity with the 
obligations and expectations of the role.
3.
The assignment of City Council liaisons is conducted annually according to the following 
process:
A.
Following the reorganization in December, the City Clerk will distribute a memo to 
each Council Member which will include a list of potential liaison assignments. 
B.
Each Council Member will complete the list in a manner which prioritizes the 
assignments of interest to them; and will submit their list only to the City Clerk in 
December.
C.
The ranking process uses the following methodology:
1.
Top priority = I really want this (please mark at most only two #1s)
2.
This is something I would like to have
3.
I’ll take this one for the team
4.
I do not want (perhaps the meeting timing does not work for you)
D.
The City Clerk will assemble responses into a table and provide it to the Mayor. The 
Mayor uses the following additional criteria to make assignments: Continuity 
assignments remain with the assignee unless the member is opting to step down 
from the role (see section 5 below); assignments will be assigned by highest priority 
desired with 1’s first, 2’s second etc.; in case of ties, overall balance and then 
seniority will be taken into account. For example, did the Council Member get their 
other first choice? Does the Council Member have other “plum” continuity 
assignments; ideally, everyone will get at least one of their top priorities; and the 
Council Member does not need to use their  top rankings to hold onto continuity 
assignments.
E.
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload. 
564 of 1111

--- page 565 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
37
F.
The Mayor, working with the City Manager and City Clerk, will utilize the responses 
to present an Agenda Report and conduct a discussion at the first meeting in 
January regarding the liaison appointments.
G.
The Mayor and Deputy Mayor have traditionally been assigned to the following 
bodies:
1.
City Council Legislative Committee - ordered by Resolution 158 (1981)
2.
City Budget and Audit Committee
3.
Planning Commission
4.
Council of Cities – City Selection Committee (Mayor with Deputy Mayor as 
alternate)
5.
Honorary Chair of Sister Cities Association (Mayor)
H.
The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all such appointments. The final liaison list will 
be distributed to all Council Members and posted on the City’s website.
4.
Liaison to the City’s Boards and Commissions
A.
Each of the City’s Boards and Commissions has a Council Member who serves as its 
Council liaison.
B.
Council Members should act as an advisor and resource to commissioners and the 
commission’s staff liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, attendance, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. 
C.
The Council liaison serves on the Appointment Subcommittee for the Commission 
to which they are assigned. In the event the Mayor is serving as the commission’s 
liaison, the minimum subcommittee shall consist of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.
5.
Continuity Appointments to External Agencies
A.
The City Council has identified certain appointments for which there is a strong 
need and desire for consistency and continuity in terms of Council participation and 
representation. The Mayor will maintain the current Council Member assigned as 
liaison to that body. The Council will have an opportunity at its annual review to see 
if a supplemental designation is needed due to changing conditions or if new bodies 
have been added to the list.  All continuity appointments should also have an 
alternate assigned, so a member can be ready to take over the role if needed. 
B.
Liaison appointments to these bodies would not annually be reassigned to another 
Council Member, as this would not provide the desired consistency. If it became 
necessary to reassign the liaison for one of these bodies as the result of a vacancy 
or other reason, the liaison role would not typically be assigned to a newly elected 
Council Member. A Council Member with an interest in serving as liaison to any of 
565 of 1111

--- page 566 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
38
these continuity bodies should confer with the current representative; and consider 
acting as an alternate or “shadowing” the current liaison for a time to learn more about 
the body’s functions and duties. 
C.
If a Council Member who is assigned as liaison to one of the aforementioned bodies 
anticipates leaving office, every effort should be made to mentor another Council 
Member so that those critical relationships can continue uninterrupted.
6.
Council of Cities Appointments
A.
In the case of appointments made by the regional Council of Cities - City Selection 
Committee, upon receipt of the City Selection Committee agenda packet listing all 
positions and nominees to be voted on, if time allows, the City Council may 
schedule a special meeting prior to the Council of Cities meeting to discuss and 
agree upon preferred appointees. This will allow the Mayor, or their proxy, to have 
clear direction on whom to vote for that reflects the best interest of the City. If 
scheduling a meeting is not practical, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor may confer on 
the vote. In the case of nominations from the floor at the City Selection voting 
meeting, the Mayor, or their proxy, will vote their conscience based on the 
feedback previously given by the City Council as a whole. In December, every year 
upon the Mayor’s rotation, a standing proxy shall be filled out and filed with the 
City Selection Committee for the year naming who may vote in the Mayor’s 
absence. The Deputy Mayor will be given first priority followed by any Council 
Member who has the most latitude and ability to attend the meetings.
566 of 1111

--- page 567 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
39
Chapter 13.
Boards and Commissions
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Council Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
3.
Reappointments, Vacancies, and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment. 
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an agendized appointment 
subcommittee meeting to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that 
currently serving Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. 
However, if it is determined that a Commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or 
that other factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic 
reappointment can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City 
Council. Any Commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be 
processed as part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting 
commissioner may be interviewed along with other applicants.   
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, website, social media, and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate subcommittee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
An “Appointment subcommittee” may include up to five City Council members. 
The City Council shall appoint the members of the Appointment subcommittee. As 
a minimum, the Appointment subcommittee shall include and a quorum shall be 
established as: 1) the Mayor (or their Council designee) and the Council liaison to 
the Commission. The Department Head affiliated with that Commission shall 
participate as a non-voting member of the Appointment subcommittee.
567 of 1111

--- page 568 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
40
H.
Except when reappointment is recommended, or an established eligibility list is 
used, the Appointment subcommittee shall conduct candidate interviews and 
make a recommendation for Council approval. Interviews shall be conducted in a 
noticed public meeting with at least a quorum of the Appointment subcommittee 
present.
I.
At the conclusion of an Appointment subcommittee’s interviews of candidates, 
and the agreement on the recommended candidate, the appointment 
subcommittee may then designate up to two applicants who would be considered 
for listing on the eligibility list for a six-month period. The eligibility list is then 
ranked according to preferred next seating to a Commission vacancy. The list is 
only established with the full agreement of the Appointment subcommittee. It is 
not a requirement that an eligibility list be established if there are not applicants 
that are deemed qualified. This list may be used for automatic next appointments 
in the event of an unscheduled vacancy, the next person on the eligibility list 
would be submitted as the recommended candidate from the Appointment 
subcommittee on the next City Council regular meeting Consent Calendar. 
J.
The full Council will receive the Appointment subcommittee’s recommendation 
and the full list of candidates for each opening. 
K.
The Appointment subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. An agenda report summarizing the Subcommittee’s 
recommendations, including the full list of candidates reviewed for each opening, 
will be provided to the full City Council. Council may adopt the recommendations 
as presented or pull the item for further discussion. The City Council can consider 
for appointment any of the candidates interviewed.
L.
A majority vote of Council approves the appointees. 
M.
Commission recruitment begins annually in the month of March, and completes in 
May, in order to ensure continuity on commissions before terms end June 10th. 
N.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
568 of 1111

--- page 569 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
41
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
O.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by the Parks and Recreation Department. High school 
students from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High 
School and Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting 
in the late spring of each year.
569 of 1111

--- page 570 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 67/1615/20254 
42
Chapter 14.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
8.
Emergency Guide for Elected Officials
570 of 1111

--- page 571 ---
Boards and Commissions 
Rules and Procedures
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Amended by Council Action on: 
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
September 6, 2022 and April 1, 2024
571 of 1111

--- page 572 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
2
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority..............................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles..............................................................................................7
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................8
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ...........................................................................12
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct ..........................................................................................13
Chapter 7.
Meetings ................................................................................................................16
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas ...................................................................................................21
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................24
Chapter 10.
Communication......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection Process...........................................................32
Chapter 12.
References..............................................................................................................34
572 of 1111

--- page 573 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws. 
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed.
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position.
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed.
573 of 1111

--- page 574 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
4
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority
1.
Commission Authority, Generally
A.
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs. 
B.
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas.
C.
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff. 
D.
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council.
E.
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City.
F.
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest.
G.
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups.
H.
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department.
I.
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.  
2.
Applicability
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council.
574 of 1111

--- page 575 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
5
3.
Authority of Each Board / Commission
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57.
A.
Library Board:
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes.
B.
Personnel Board:
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules.
C.
Community Relations Commission (CRC): 
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases.
D.
Park & Recreation Commission:
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities.
E.
Planning Commission:
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council.
F.
Senior Citizens Commission:
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population.
575 of 1111

--- page 576 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
6
G.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure.
H.
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC):
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices. 
I.
Youth Activity Council (YAC):
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.
576 of 1111

--- page 577 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
7
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources.
577 of 1111

--- page 578 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
8
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Chair
A.
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period.
B.
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting.
C.
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently:
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public. 
b.
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response. 
c.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members.
d.
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements. 
e.
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted. 
f.
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should:
578 of 1111

--- page 579 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
9
a.
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views.
D.
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission. 
E.
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public.
2.
Duties of Vice Chair
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position.
3.
Duties of Commissioners
A.
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Commission consideration.
D.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Commissioners are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
E.
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries.
579 of 1111

--- page 580 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
10
F.
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting.
G.
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter.
H.
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook. 
4.
Duties of Staff Liaison
A.
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities:
1.
Create meeting schedules.
2.
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports.
3.
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information.
4.
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission.
5.
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management.
6.
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration.
7.
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council.
B.
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body.
C.
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body.
580 of 1111

--- page 581 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
11
5.
Duties of Administrative Staff
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to:
A.
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public.
B.
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting.
C.
Produce the action minutes for each meeting.
D.
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk.
6.
Duties of Council Liaison
A.
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions.
B.
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
581 of 1111

--- page 582 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
12
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
1.
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes.
2.
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance.
3.
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire.
4.
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention.
5.
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission. 
582 of 1111

--- page 583 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
13
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct 
1.
Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Chair normally speaks last. After other members of the Commission have 
offered their opinions, the Chair speaks. The Chair can speak after each round of 
speaking by Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, 
Communication, sections regarding “Speaking for the City” and “Speaking as an 
Individual”). 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the Commission staff liaison, 
and City Attorney’s Office represenative (if applicable) out of respect and 
teamwork. 
583 of 1111

--- page 584 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
14
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
 Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting.1
R.
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting. 
S.
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested.
T.
Pay close attention the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on the 
dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent personal 
matters.
T.U. When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties.  This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those posted on social 
media.  At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications 
(oral or written communications from one party outside of the hearing) and 
describe the nature and substance of the communication.
2.
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees.
3.
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).
4.
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning 
with calendar year 2025.   
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Commissioner is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this Chapter 
(“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve the 
1 Items Q-T are included within the existing Commissioner Conduct chapter and do not overlap with the 
new conduct. Staff recommends retaining items Q-T for this reason. 
584 of 1111

--- page 585 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
15
matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by referral to the Mayor or 
Council Liaison to the Commission to privately counsel the subject Commissioner.  
A.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of a 
Commissioner for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The complaint shall 
be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City 
Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to the Council and 
to the Commissioner.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next 
available City Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Commissioner who is 
the subject of the complaint may include a written response to be included with 
the agenda packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, 
or both.  
B.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject 
Commissioner and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to 
any training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment 
of expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the 
City Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party 
to do so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
C.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Commissioner who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
A.D. At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to (1) 
take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Commissioner to promptly 
take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a censure 
resolution, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for 
official travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal 
or reconsideration.  
585 of 1111

--- page 586 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
16
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed).
3.
Commission Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time.
B.
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates.
C.
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. 
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
586 of 1111

--- page 587 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
17
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda 
items the Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote.
6.
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
587 of 1111

--- page 588 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
18
E.
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes 
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes
c.
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
4.
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time. 
F.
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured.
G.
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item.
H.
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period.
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
588 of 1111

--- page 589 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
19
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff.
F.
Commission discussion and deliberation.
G.
Commission votes.
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each.
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed. 
B.
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
11.
At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items.
12.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body.
B.
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
589 of 1111

--- page 590 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
20
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No supplemental 
materials may be appended to minutes. 
C.
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable.
D.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
13.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar
590 of 1111

--- page 591 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
21
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
B.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled. 
C.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules.
D.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission.
E.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
F.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
591 of 1111

--- page 592 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
22
G.
Reports and Announcements
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda.  
H.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
I.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.  
1.
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure:
a.
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and 
b.
Any action is fully transparent to the public. 
2.
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting.
B.
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report.
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways:
a.
Write a letter or email to the Commission. 
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting.
592 of 1111

--- page 593 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
23
2.
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue. 
3.
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.
593 of 1111

--- page 594 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
24
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend.
2.
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply:
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. 
2.
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head.
3.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
4.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
594 of 1111

--- page 595 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
25
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
595 of 1111

--- page 596 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
26
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
596 of 1111

--- page 597 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
27
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
597 of 1111

--- page 598 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Correspondence
A.
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized.
B.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes.
C.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, 
will also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
5.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email. 
B.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
598 of 1111

--- page 599 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
29
C.
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
D.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
6.
Social Media Use as a Commission Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
599 of 1111

--- page 600 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
30
A.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. 
Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or 
Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, 
not by any individual commissioner.
A.B. Quasi-Judicial Capacity:  see Chapter 6 (Commissioner Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Commissioners are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.  
7.
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items
A.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics.
B.
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
C.
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person.
D.
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible.
8.
Commission - Staff Relations
A.
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison.
B.
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting. 
600 of 1111

--- page 601 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
31
C.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
D.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners.
9.
Speaking for “the City”
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.  
10.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.  
601 of 1111

--- page 602 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
32
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection 
Process
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.  
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur.
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening. 
602 of 1111

--- page 603 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
33
H.
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees.
I.
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period.
J.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
K.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year.
603 of 1111

--- page 604 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
34
Chapter 12.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
604 of 1111

--- page 605 ---
City Council Rules and Procedures 
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Amended by Council action on: 
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
February 22, 2022, October 17, 2022, April 1, 2024, and July 15, 2024
605 of 1111

--- page 606 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
2
City of San Mateo Council Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council ....................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles .......................................................................................5
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................7
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor ..................................................................10
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct.......................................................................................12
Chapter 7.
Meetings.................................................................................................................15
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas....................................................................................................20
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................23
Chapter 10. Communication ......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11. Legislative...............................................................................................................33
Chapter 12. Council Liaison Roles ..............................................................................................36
Chapter 13. Boards and Commissions........................................................................................39
Chapter 14. References..............................................................................................................42
606 of 1111

--- page 607 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This handbook describes the way for the San Mateo City Council to conduct its business and the 
expectations for members, staff, and the public to operate and engage with each other and the 
community as a whole. It is a compilation of all Council-related rules and procedures that have 
been formally adopted by Council. 
The purpose of these Rules and Procedures (Rules) is to set a standard of professionalism, 
civility, and decorum for the conduct of the City Council’s business. San Mateo has a long and 
proud tradition of open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules are 
intended to enhance public participation and Council debate so that the best possible decisions 
can be made for San Mateo. 
Revisions to these Rules and Procedures
Amendments to these Rules must be approved by the City Council as a body and are subject to 
review and future modification as needed.
City Council Vision
The City Council’s vision and strategic goals can be found on the City’s website:
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=167
607 of 1111

--- page 608 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
4
Chapter 2.
Authority of the City Council
1.
The City Council is the policy and lawmaking body of the City. State and local laws define 
the powers and responsibilities of the City Council.
2.
General Authorities and Applicability
Charter section 2.12 and the San Mateo Municipal Code provide that the City Council shall 
determine its own rules and order of business. When not in conflict with the Charter of 
the City of San Mateo, or the Constitution, or laws of the State of California, these City 
Council Rules shall be in effect upon adoption by resolution of the Council.
3.
Revisions to these Rules
The Council shall review and revise these Rules as needed.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century, shall apply.
608 of 1111

--- page 609 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
5
Chapter 3.
Key Governance Principles
In 2022, the City conducted its first by-district election for City Council members, with districts 
1, 3, and 5 holding district elections in November 2022 and districts 2 and 4 to hold its first 
district elections in November 2024. This new election process changes how council members 
are elected, but not how they govern. It is the intent of the City Council to continue the practice 
of governing with a citywide perspective. The City Council acts as a body, not as individuals. An 
overriding principle is that all members of the City Council continue to serve all of the people of 
San Mateo.
Key Governance Principles
1.
Serving the Entire Community
A.
The City Council wishes to remain united in its service to the community and will 
govern by considering the needs and interests of the community as a whole.
B.
Members of the City Council will continue to serve all residents, regardless of 
whether they live within their district. Members of the City Council may be 
responsive to requests from anyone in the community.
2.
City Management and Governance
Professional management in a Council-Manager form of government will continue with all 
of the best management practices that the City Council currently receives. 
3.
Use of City Resources
A.
The City Council will strive to use taxpayer resources efficiently and effectively 
while providing consistent services for all residents. Resources will be allocated 
based on the City’s long-term strategic plan and citywide considerations of service 
levels and financial capacity. 
B.
Budget allocations and financial considerations will not be made based on districts.
4.
Distribution of Council Duties and Events
Fair distribution of duties and assignments is a priority. Long-standing practices regarding 
invitations to members of the City Council to events and activities, appointments to 
committees and various bodies, and the process for board and commission appointments, 
will remain in effect.
609 of 1111

--- page 610 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
6
5.
Communications and Access to Information
A.
Council members will have equal access to information. Information necessary for 
the City Council to govern on a citywide basis will be shared with all City 
Councilmembers.
B.
Communication resources will be provided on a citywide and/or program-level 
basis with equitable distribution across districts, while being consistent with legal 
requirements prohibiting the use of public resources for campaign purposes
 
610 of 1111

--- page 611 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
7
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Council
A.
Refer to the Charter of the City of San Mateo for a detailed description of codified 
duties of the City Council.
B.
Disaster Responsibilities
1.
In the event of a disaster, the City Council holds the following roles:
a.
Primarily, to make decisions that will enable  emergency operations 
to continue effectively.
b.
To assist in the conveyance of public information.
2.
Reference the “Elected Officials’ Guide to Managing Disasters” from the 
California Office of Emergency Services for a detailed description of the 
roles and responsibilities of Council Members in times of disaster. 
2.
Duties of Mayor
A.
To conduct meetings of the City Council as its chairperson.
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents and opponents, are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Mayor should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period restate, if any,  relevant 
questions raised from the public and direct questions or comments 
requiring a response to staff for a response. 
b.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the presiding officer and members.
c.
Help keep Council Member questions and comments relevant to 
the matter being considered by the Council.
611 of 1111

--- page 612 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
8
d.
Consider calling for a brief recess if orderly conduct of the meeting 
is being disrupted. 
e.
Announce the decision and vote of the Council on all items, this 
may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, the City Manager, 
City Attorney, or key staff presenting.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Council is provided an opportunity to 
completely express their views on items of business, the Mayor should:
a.
Actively seek Council Member comments and ensure that Council 
Members ask to be recognized by the Mayor before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each Council Member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing a Council Member to make 
another statement – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each Council Member is given the opportunity to fully 
express their views.
B.
To represent City Government as its chief elected official at community functions, 
events, meetings, and business outreach and retention visits.
C.
On behalf of the City Council, to officially welcome dignitaries, officials, and special 
event gatherings.
D.
To vote on behalf of the Council at regional meetings such as the San Mateo 
County Council of Cities/City Selection Committee, provided that the vote is not 
inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed Council consensus. 
This is expected protocol for any Council Member who represents the City on any 
regional bodies.
E.
To correspond on behalf of the Council on subjects, issues, and legislative 
proposals provided that opinions expressed on behalf of the Council or City 
Government are not inconsistent with established policies or previously expressed 
Council consensus. 
F.
To vote as the City’s “voting delegate” at the League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and other similar meetings. This responsibility may be delegated to 
another Council Member by action of the City Council.
G.
To review the agendas of meetings of the City Council and participate in their 
preparation as necessary.
612 of 1111

--- page 613 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
9
H.
To recommend Council Members for liaison positions on various boards, 
commissions and agencies. The Mayor’s recommendations shall be discussed and 
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council and are subject to change.
I.
To serve as the City’s primary media spokesperson in coordination with City staff. 
Appropriate City staff should always be alerted to media contact.
J.
Nothing under the Mayor’s duties shall limit any individual Council Member’s 
ability to interact with members of the public.
K.
The Mayor is still subject to all duties of Council Members as listed below in 
number 4.
3.
Duties of Deputy Mayor
In the absence of the Mayor from the City or a Council meeting, the Deputy Mayor shall 
possess all powers of the office of the Mayor; and be subject to all prescribed duties for 
that office.
4.
Duties of Council Members
A.
Arrive on time for all Council meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Council meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Council consideration.
D.
Fulfill the appointed and liaison assignments to internal and external agencies, 
legislators, and the City’s boards and commissions, with all due diligence needed 
for the requirements of that particular assignment. 
E.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Mayor in running an efficient 
and effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping 
ensure all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Council members are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
F.
All Council Members are asked to alert appropriate staff when receiving media 
inquiries.
613 of 1111

--- page 614 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
10
Chapter 5.
Selection of Mayor and Deputy Mayor
1.
City Council reorganization, including rotation of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor 
occurs annually at the regular meeting in December. 
2.
The City Council believes that experience as a Council Member will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and that it is in the City’s best interest that 
these selections be made in a manner that permits the Mayor and Deputy Mayor to gain 
that experience in cycles of governing and to acclimate themselves to the jobs, tasks, and 
roles prior to assuming their respective offices. 
3.
It is appropriate to base such succession on rotation and seniority according to the 
following:
A.
Each Council Member has a specified position in the rotation sequence. In any 
year, the first person in the sequence is typically selected as Mayor, and the 
second in the sequence as the Deputy Mayor. 
B.
After serving as Mayor, that Council Member moves to the end of the rotation 
sequence, and the other four Council Members move forward.
C.
When a Council Member is newly elected or appointed (as the result of a cancelled 
election), that new Council Member goes into the fourth position in the rotation, 
after all incumbents, but before the current outgoing Mayor. 
D.
If two or more Council Members are newly elected or appointed at the same time, 
the newly elected or appointed Council Members shall draw lots to determine 
their position relative to one another in the rotational sequence. 
E.
If a Council Member is appointed to fill a mid-term vacancy, that Council Member 
will go to the end of the rotational list.
F.
Incumbent Council Members, when re-elected, do not begin anew at the end of 
the list, but rather retain their placement in the rotation.
G.
If for any reason (death, resignation, recall, not seeking re-election, etc.) a Council 
Member is removed from the rotation, the remaining Council Members move 
forward in the sequence. 
H.
A Council Member may decline to serve as Mayor or Deputy Mayor. In this case, 
the office would pass to the next Council Member on the list. The Council Member 
who declined will drop back one position in the rotation.
614 of 1111

--- page 615 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
11
4.
When the Council reorganizes, the outgoing Mayor will nominate the Deputy Mayor to 
succeed him/her. The newly appointed Mayor will then nominate the next Council 
Member in the rotational sequence to serve as Deputy Mayor for the coming year.
5.
The process described above shall guide the Council’s selection of the Mayor and Deputy 
Mayor; however, a majority of the City Council retains the authority to disregard the 
process and select any member of the City Council for these positions.
6.
The City Clerk shall keep a list outlining the rotational sequence and update it annually.
615 of 1111

--- page 616 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
12
Chapter 6.
Council Member Conduct
1.
Council Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, San Mateo Council Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Mayor normally speaks last. After other members of the Council have offered 
their opinions, the Mayor speaks. The Mayor can speak after each round of 
speaking by Council Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized. 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the City Manager and City 
Attorney out of respect and teamwork. 
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
616 of 1111

--- page 617 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
13
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
Pay close attention to the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on 
the dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent 
personal matters.
R.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties. This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those post on social 
media. At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications (oral 
or written from one party outside of the hearing) and describe the nature and 
substance of the communication.
2.
Council Members shall not participate as a volunteer in any of the City’s operating 
departments.
3.
Council Members are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment, Discrimination 
and Reasonable Accommodations for Disabilities Policy (#301).
4.
Council Members shall complete ethics training as required by state law.
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Council member is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this 
Chapter (“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to 
resolve the matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by 
referral to the Mayor (or the Deputy Mayor if the Mayor’s conduct is at issue) to 
privately counsel the subject Council member.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of 
another Council Member for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The 
complaint shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City 
Manager and City Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to 
the Council.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next available City 
Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint may include a written response to be included with the agenda 
packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject Council 
member and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to any 
training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority and/or committee 
617 of 1111

--- page 618 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
14
assignments (both internal and inter-governmental), and/or restrict payment of 
expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the City 
Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party to do 
so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Council member who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to:  
(1) take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Council member to 
promptly take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a 
censure resolution, revoke seniority and/or committee assignments (both internal 
and inter-governmental) and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for official 
travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal or 
reconsideration.  
618 of 1111

--- page 619 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
15
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Council decisions must be taken at City Council meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under council discussion with colleagues should Council Member opinions be shared and 
deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the Council at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently serving).
3.
Council Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Council falls on a holiday, the regular 
meeting shall be held on the next business day or the earliest business day within 
a week.
B.
Once a year, adopt a schedule of Council meetings for the following year 
identifying any regular meeting dates that need to move due to major holidays or 
other conflicts.
C.
Meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Council.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are conducted at City Hall Council Chambers on the first and 
third Monday nights of each month. In July, August, and December, only one 
meeting is held during the month. The regular meetings are held not earlier than 
6:30 pm.  It is City policy to make every effort to complete and distribute the 
agenda and related reports by the preceding Thursday. For major complex projects 
and policies, the City will make every effort to distribute reports as early as 
possible before the meeting when the item will be considered.
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Mayor or Council with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the City Council, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on a regular City Council 
meeting. At study sessions, Council Members may state their individual responses 
and questions to the information provided and may collectively provide direction 
to City staff. No action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions can be part of either special or regular meetings. The Council 
conducts its business in public to the greatest extent possible. State law recognizes 
619 of 1111

--- page 620 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
16
that public discussion of certain items could jeopardize the public interest, compromise 
the City’s position, or cost the citizens of San Mateo financially, and, therefore; generally 
allows the City Council to hold closed session meetings for the consideration of certain 
personnel matters, labor negotiations, real property negotiations, matters of public 
security, and the discussion of litigation, among other things. These rules provide for 
strict confidentiality of City Council discussion as required by State law. The procedures 
for the conduct of the closed sessions shall be the same as those for open session 
meetings, except that the public, after an opportunity for public comment, are excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages. In the event a quorum of the City 
Council loses electrical power or suffers an internet connection outage not 
corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be adjourned to a date certain. Any 
items noticed as public hearings will be continued to the next regularly scheduled 
meeting of the City Council. Any other agenda items the Council has not taken 
action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Council shall be required for any formal 
action of Council unless the law or charter require a different threshold.
6.
The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Council, may change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
Members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the legislative 
process by submitting written comments before the meeting or speaking in person 
or virtually when offered, at a meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of jeers or 
cheers that may discourage public participation. For this reason, these rules are 
taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior may result in removal from the 
Council meeting.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which speakers must stay 
on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general public 
comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction of the 
620 of 1111

--- page 621 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
17
City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they continue to 
disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Mayor may, at their discretion with Council concurrence, limit the amount of 
time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
E.
Generally, time limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers: 
•
between 1 -10: 3 minutes
•
between 11-20: 2 minutes
•
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers of the group) – up to five (5) 
minutes, for a group presentation, as many speakers are allowed as fit in 
that time allowance.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
F.
Members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone to ensure all 
attendees, in person and remote, can adequately hear comments, and so that it 
can be captured on the video recording.
G.
Individuals who wish to speak should submit a speaker card to the City Clerk, or 
use the raise your hand feature virtually, to be called up at the appropriate time. 
The Clerk will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item. 
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns, if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff
621 of 1111

--- page 622 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
18
F.
Council discussion and deliberation
G.
Council votes
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated in #8 with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers - as outlined in Section 7(D)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant only one 15 minute presentation is 
allowed
7.
Tenant Relocation Appeals Hearings – both the Landlord and the Tenant 
shall each be given 15 minutes to present, and each shall have a 5-minute 
rebuttal.
B.
Appeals from decisions of the City’s Boards and Commissions shall appear on the 
Council agenda for discussion. Council determines whether to affirm the action of 
the commission, refer the matter back to the commission, or reverse the decision. 
C.
Any person that addressed the Council during one of the fifteen-minute periods 
may not speak again during the public comment period for individual speakers on 
the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
At 11:00 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, Council will determine 
with a majority vote whether to continue with an item or if they will take up any 
remaining unheard items.
622 of 1111

--- page 623 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
19
11.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council shall use Action Minutes (action minutes contain very little, if any, 
narrative content) or light summary at the discretion of the City Clerk, to record 
their proceedings.
B.
Motions and votes are shown in the record.
C.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used in order to provide a verbatim record 
of meetings as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
12.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented, regulated and enforced by the Fair 
Political Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Council Member they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the City Council, 
the Council Member should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest 
opportunity for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the City Council, 
the City Manager, and the City Clerk.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon any matter on which they have a conflict of 
interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse him/herself 
from the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar.
623 of 1111

--- page 624 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
20
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
City Council agendas will be prepared by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council 
in the order described below.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
3.
AB 2449 Member requests to join virtually for Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – vote is required
B.
Ceremonial Matters
The presentation and receipt of ceremonial resolutions and celebrations not 
requiring formal legislative action. In order to ensure the business of the meeting 
can be handled timely, no more than three (3) items will be scheduled under 
ceremonial in any meeting. 
C.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be 
routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Council Member and considered 
separately. Members of the Public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled.
D.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the City Council at this time. State law prevents Council from 
taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred to staff 
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes unless Council by 
majority extends the total time; however, an opportunity for additional public 
comment may be provided later in the agenda, if needed. Timing as per Chapter 7 
E(1) of these Rules.
E.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the Council.
624 of 1111

--- page 625 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
21
F.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
G.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
H.
Reports and Announcements
City Manager, City Attorney, and Council Members, report on their various 
assignments and liaison roles, and Council Members may make individual requests 
to schedule future items for consideration. A majority vote or consensus of Council 
is required to place a request on a future agenda. If a Council Member is going to 
make a request to agendize an item, such as a resolution of support that they have 
proposed wording for, or a sample copy of a proposed resolution, that item should 
be sent to the Clerk for distribution to members no later than the time of the 
agenda packet issuance and in advance of the meeting in order to give the other 
Council Members adequate time to review and determine if it is something they 
would like to support.
I.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
J.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
Persons who can place matters on the agenda: City Manager or City Attorney
B.
Council Member: 
1.
A Council Member may request an item be considered on a future agenda. 
Before the decision is made, staff will provide information on how much 
staff time is estimated to be required to produce the agenda report. Then 
with a majority vote or consensus of Council, staff will prepare an agenda 
report and place the item on a future agenda. 
2.
Council Members may make this request verbally during a meeting or may 
submit a written request. 
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Council action in the following ways:
625 of 1111

--- page 626 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
22
a.
Write a letter or email to the City Council
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a City Council meeting
c.
Attend annual Council goal setting meeting and provide input
2.
Upon agreement of a majority of the City Council, Council will determine 
whether to place an item requested by the public on a future agenda.
626 of 1111

--- page 627 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
23
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
Council Member Compensation
A.
State law sets the overall level of compensation for City Council Members 
(California Government Code § 36516).
B.
Compensation of Council Members is set by Resolution (see the San Mateo City 
Charter, Section 2.03 Compensation).
C.
Council Member benefits are established in San Mateo City Charter, Section 2.04 
Benefits and Expenses.
D.
A full explanation of Council Member compensation is available on the City’s 
website.
2.
City Council Expense Reimbursement Policy
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. Expenses incurred in connection with the 
following types of activities generally constitute authorized expenses, as 
long as the other requirements of this policy are met:
a.
Communicating with representatives of regional, state, and national 
government on matters of interest to the City.
b.
Meeting with City staff on matters relating to City business.
c.
Attending educational seminars designed to improve officials’ skill 
and information levels.
d.
Participating in local, regional, state, and national organizations 
whose activities effect the City’s interests; however, a member of 
the City Council shall not accept an elected or appointed position 
that would require anticipated costs to the City of more than $100 
annually without City Council approval.
e.
Recognizing the service to the City (for example, thanking a 
longtime employee with a retirement gift of nominal value).
f.
Attending fundraising events for nonprofit entities providing 
services of benefit to the City and/or its residents.
g.
Attending City events.
627 of 1111

--- page 628 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
24
h.
Implementing a City approved strategy for attracting or retaining 
businesses to the City, which will typically involve at least one staff 
member.
2.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
3.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines. 
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties, and the State 
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy.  If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible should be utilized.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
628 of 1111

--- page 629 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
25
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Council members are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (Per Diem Rates | GSA). This maximum applies to the 
room rate only and does not include any taxes or fees. Government rates 
for lodging are often available and should be sought. The City will pay only 
for standard single rooms, including taxes and fees, for individual Council 
members, and any additional nonbusiness expenses incurred will be paid 
by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Council member’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that an employee elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
629 of 1111

--- page 630 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
26
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Council members only need to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official or employee 
shall be reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for 
the meal. The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
630 of 1111

--- page 631 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
27
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
631 of 1111

--- page 632 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email communications, texts and other social media platform 
writing involving City Council Members and members of boards, commissions, 
committees, and task forces, the subject of which relate to the conduct of government or 
the performance of any governmental function, with a few exceptions as outlined in the 
Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any other 
privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Council Member should be mindful of all of the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Mail Processing
A.
Members of the City Council may receive mail and other materials through City 
Hall. 
B.
City Clerk staff open all incoming mail for the Mayor and Council Members, unless 
it is labeled personal and confidential.
C.
City Clerk’s Office staff disseminate these materials to individual Council Members. 
City Staff will scan and email correspondence. 
D.
General correspondence addressed to Council Members as a whole will be opened 
and delivered to all Council Members. A correspondence addressed to a single 
Council Member on a topic that is the subject matter jurisdiction of the city and/or 
due to come on an upcoming agenda will be shared with all Council Members.
5.
Correspondence
A.
The City Clerk is authorized to receive and take administrative action on all 
correspondence directed to the City Council. The City Clerk may also respond to 
correspondence submitted to the full City Council on non-agenda items or 
authorize a staff member to respond. A courtesy copy is provided to each Council 
Member.
B.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific City Council agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of the agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the City Council prior to 
632 of 1111

--- page 633 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
29
the City Council meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is 
appended to the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in 
the records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, will also 
be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
C.
After the City Council has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Council Members who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official City Council title, and staff support should not be utilized. 
D.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as staff support, cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes, See also Section 12 of this Chapter. 
6.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
B.
Communications on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
C.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
7.
Social Media Use as a Council Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, 
etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Council Members choose to maintain and use personal social media accounts to 
conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, as well as 
Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
633 of 1111

--- page 634 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
30
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment: Councilmember social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements. If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum. The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content. In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Council Members. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Council or City. Members 
should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or Council are 
achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, not by any 
individual council member.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity: see Chapter 6 (Council Member Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Council Members are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.
8.
Written Communications for Council Meetings
D.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm the Wednesday before the Council meeting. This is to 
allow for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to 
information, all plans, correspondence, and other documents supporting any item 
being heard by the City Council. 
E.
To be included in the Dais packet, communication may be received up until 4:00 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
634 of 1111

--- page 635 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
31
F.
Materials distributed to Council Members during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Council Member, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by 
another person.
G.
If a Council Member receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall 
forward it to the City Clerk and the City Manager as soon as possible.
H.
If late correspondence is received, the City Council will determine at the meeting 
whether to continue or refer the item to the appropriate Board and/or 
Commission if significant changes to a project, or significant new information has 
become known.
9.
Council Communication to Boards and Commissions
A.
Council Members should be mindful not to unduly influence—through their 
attendance—the decision at a Board or Commission meeting so as to protect the 
independent process of that body.
B.
It is not appropriate for a Council Member to make public comments at a Board or 
Commission meeting.
10.
Council – Staff Relations
A.
Individual Council Members may make requests of City staff through the City 
Manager or Department Head for limited research and information without the 
formal concurrence of a majority of the members’ colleagues. Requests that will 
require significant staff time may be referred to the full Council and only pursued if 
supported by a majority of the Council.
B.
Council Members are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to 
the City Manager or Department Head (including copying the City Manager) as far 
in advance of the meeting as possible so that Staff can be prepared to respond at 
the Council meeting. 
C.
Council Members should direct any questions on agenda reports to the City 
Manager or their designee, usually the staff member presenting. 
D.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
E.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all Council 
Members.
11.
Speaking for “the City”
635 of 1111

--- page 636 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
32
Similar to written correspondence, when Council Members are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the City Council’s position on an issue, the response should reflect the 
position of the City Council as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on a 
matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the City Council voted in support 
of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important that those 
in attendance gain an understanding of the City Council’s position rather than that of an 
individual member.
12.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Council Members may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the City Council has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the City 
Council has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in their 
communications that they are not speaking for the City Council as a whole, but for 
themselves as an individual member of the Council. City letterhead and office support 
may be utilized in these circumstances, except it may not be used for personal or political 
purposes (see also 5(D) of this chapter). 
636 of 1111

--- page 637 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
33
Chapter 11.
Legislative
1.
Council Legislative Committee
A.
It is the policy of the City Council that the Council be involved in the development 
of the City’s position on significant pending federal and state legislation that may 
directly impact the City of San Mateo.
B.
The offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor are the Council’s Legislative Committee.
C.
The Legislative Committee may meet annually or as needed to draft the City’s 
legislative priorities; and shall meet when necessary to develop recommendations 
for the City’s position on legislative matters. 
D.
Pending legislation for consideration by the Legislative Committee can be 
submitted to the Committee by a Council Member, City Manager, or by a 
Commission Staff Liaison if a majority of their commission voted in favor of 
submission to the Legislative Committee.
E.
The Committee’s recommendations shall be presented to the City Council for its 
consideration; if there is a pressing and urgent need to comment on pending 
legislation and getting approval in a City Council meeting is not practical, the 
Legislative Committee may take immediate action to communicate with legislators 
and copy the entire City Council on the communication and provide a brief report 
of action taken under Reports and Announcements at the next City Council 
meeting
F.
The Council shall direct the Mayor or other City official to communicate the City’s 
position on legislative matters to the appropriate legislative bodies.
2.
Ceremonial Matters
A.
There are several different types of action the Council may take to provide 
recognition or express appreciation:
1.
Certifications of Appreciation or Recognition
Commendations typically issued to acknowledge the activities of a person 
or organization. These certificates may be issued by any member of the 
Council without formal action. Examples of traditional recipients would 
include departing Board and Commission Members, high school students 
with 4.0 grade point averages, Chamber of Commerce Outstanding 
Businesses Awards, recognizing Eagle Scouts, winners of local art or speech 
contests, etc.
637 of 1111

--- page 638 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
34
2.
Commendatory Resolutions
Typically used to handle matters requiring some type of formal 
memorialization such as the retirement of a long-tenured employee, or 
outgoing Mayor or Council Member. These are not voted on like a standard 
Resolution of Council action would be.
3.
Proclamations
Public announcements directing attention to a person, organization, or 
event. Proclamations will be issued subject to the policy described below.
B.
Preparation of City Proclamations
1.
It is the policy of the City Council to issue proclamations for certain events 
or causes, when such a proclamation positively impacts the community and 
conveys an affirmative message to residents. Examples of causes for which 
proclamations are regularly and routinely issued include, but are not 
limited to: notable accomplishments by citizens, youth groups, schools, 
local organizations, non-profit groups, and local events that deserve special 
recognition. Discretion should be used in determining whether or not to 
issue a proclamation. Proclamations that are political in nature, are 
controversial, or that likely would not enjoy a high level of community 
interest and support, are discouraged. 
2.
It will be the policy of the City Council to process requests for 
proclamations in the following manner:
a.
The City Clerk will review the request with the Mayor. 
b.
If the Mayor determines that the proclamation request is consistent 
with the policy stated above, the Mayor will direct the City Clerk to 
prepare the proclamation and the proclamation will be issued.
c.
If the Mayor determines the proclamation request is not consistent 
with the policy stated above, the request will be routed to the other 
Council Members to determine if there is interest in issuing the 
proclamation.
d.
If a Council Member has interest in issuing the proclamation that 
the Mayor determined was not consistent with this policy, that 
Council Member will sponsor the item and shall be responsible for 
drafting the language to be contained in the proclamation. The 
sponsor Council Member shall provide the draft proclamation 
language to the City Clerk.
638 of 1111

--- page 639 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
35
e.
Upon receipt of the draft proclamation language, the City Clerk will 
place the item for consideration to considering issuing the 
proclamation on the Consent Calendar at the next available 
meeting. The proclamation will be issued upon a majority vote of 
the Council in support of issuing the proclamation. Depending on 
the nature and time-sensitivity of the request, the Mayor and 
Deputy Mayor can act without full formal concurrence of the 
Council when the situation warrants.
639 of 1111

--- page 640 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
36
Chapter 12.
Council Liaison Roles
1.
The City Council will collectively review and approve liaison appointments. The 
recommended appointments will, to the best of the Council’s ability, attempt to match 
the requested positions with the needs of the respective body and the experience of the 
Council Member, while also attempting to equitably balance the distribution of 
assignments.
2.
It is generally suggested that newly elected Council Members undertake a limited number 
of assignments during their first year, to allow opportunity to gain familiarity with the 
obligations and expectations of the role.
3.
The assignment of City Council liaisons is conducted annually according to the following 
process:
A.
Following the reorganization in December, the City Clerk will distribute a memo to 
each Council Member which will include a list of potential liaison assignments. 
B.
Each Council Member will complete the list in a manner which prioritizes the 
assignments of interest to them; and will submit their list only to the City Clerk in 
December.
C.
The ranking process uses the following methodology:
1.
Top priority = I really want this (please mark at most only two #1s)
2.
This is something I would like to have
3.
I’ll take this one for the team
4.
I do not want (perhaps the meeting timing does not work for you)
D.
The City Clerk will assemble responses into a table and provide it to the Mayor. The 
Mayor uses the following additional criteria to make assignments: Continuity 
assignments remain with the assignee unless the member is opting to step down 
from the role (see section 5 below); assignments will be assigned by highest priority 
desired with 1’s first, 2’s second etc.; in case of ties, overall balance and then 
seniority will be taken into account. For example, did the Council Member get their 
other first choice? Does the Council Member have other “plum” continuity 
assignments; ideally, everyone will get at least one of their top priorities; and the 
Council Member does not need to use their  top rankings to hold onto continuity 
assignments.
E.
In the event that a liaison has not been identified for each commission, the Mayor 
will divide any remaining liaison positions amongst the Council, attempting to 
equitably balance the distribution of the assignments and associated workload. 
640 of 1111

--- page 641 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
37
F.
The Mayor, working with the City Manager and City Clerk, will utilize the responses 
to present an Agenda Report and conduct a discussion at the first meeting in 
January regarding the liaison appointments.
G.
The Mayor and Deputy Mayor have traditionally been assigned to the following 
bodies:
1.
City Council Legislative Committee - ordered by Resolution 158 (1981)
2.
City Budget and Audit Committee
3.
Planning Commission
4.
Council of Cities – City Selection Committee (Mayor with Deputy Mayor as 
alternate)
5.
Honorary Chair of Sister Cities Association (Mayor)
H.
The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all such appointments. The final liaison list will 
be distributed to all Council Members and posted on the City’s website.
4.
Liaison to the City’s Boards and Commissions
A.
Each of the City’s Boards and Commissions has a Council Member who serves as its 
Council liaison.
B.
Council Members should act as an advisor and resource to commissioners and the 
commission’s staff liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, attendance, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. 
C.
The Council liaison serves on the Appointment Subcommittee for the Commission 
to which they are assigned. In the event the Mayor is serving as the commission’s 
liaison, the minimum subcommittee shall consist of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.
5.
Continuity Appointments to External Agencies
A.
The City Council has identified certain appointments for which there is a strong 
need and desire for consistency and continuity in terms of Council participation and 
representation. The Mayor will maintain the current Council Member assigned as 
liaison to that body. The Council will have an opportunity at its annual review to see 
if a supplemental designation is needed due to changing conditions or if new bodies 
have been added to the list.  All continuity appointments should also have an 
alternate assigned, so a member can be ready to take over the role if needed. 
B.
Liaison appointments to these bodies would not annually be reassigned to another 
Council Member, as this would not provide the desired consistency. If it became 
necessary to reassign the liaison for one of these bodies as the result of a vacancy 
or other reason, the liaison role would not typically be assigned to a newly elected 
Council Member. A Council Member with an interest in serving as liaison to any of 
641 of 1111

--- page 642 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
38
these continuity bodies should confer with the current representative; and consider 
acting as an alternate or “shadowing” the current liaison for a time to learn more about 
the body’s functions and duties. 
C.
If a Council Member who is assigned as liaison to one of the aforementioned bodies 
anticipates leaving office, every effort should be made to mentor another Council 
Member so that those critical relationships can continue uninterrupted.
6.
Council of Cities Appointments
A.
In the case of appointments made by the regional Council of Cities - City Selection 
Committee, upon receipt of the City Selection Committee agenda packet listing all 
positions and nominees to be voted on, if time allows, the City Council may 
schedule a special meeting prior to the Council of Cities meeting to discuss and 
agree upon preferred appointees. This will allow the Mayor, or their proxy, to have 
clear direction on whom to vote for that reflects the best interest of the City. If 
scheduling a meeting is not practical, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor may confer on 
the vote. In the case of nominations from the floor at the City Selection voting 
meeting, the Mayor, or their proxy, will vote their conscience based on the 
feedback previously given by the City Council as a whole. In December, every year 
upon the Mayor’s rotation, a standing proxy shall be filled out and filed with the 
City Selection Committee for the year naming who may vote in the Mayor’s 
absence. The Deputy Mayor will be given first priority followed by any Council 
Member who has the most latitude and ability to attend the meetings.
642 of 1111

--- page 643 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
39
Chapter 13.
Boards and Commissions
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Council Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
3.
Reappointments, Vacancies, and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment. 
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an agendized appointment 
subcommittee meeting to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that 
currently serving Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. 
However, if it is determined that a Commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or 
that other factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic 
reappointment can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City 
Council. Any Commission seat selected for re-interviews, means the seat will be 
processed as part of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting 
commissioner may be interviewed along with other applicants.   
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including: 
advertising, website, social media, and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate subcommittee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
An “Appointment subcommittee” may include up to five City Council members. 
The City Council shall appoint the members of the Appointment subcommittee. As 
a minimum, the Appointment subcommittee shall include and a quorum shall be 
established as: 1) the Mayor (or their Council designee) and the Council liaison to 
the Commission. The Department Head affiliated with that Commission shall 
participate as a non-voting member of the Appointment subcommittee.
643 of 1111

--- page 644 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
40
H.
Except when reappointment is recommended, or an established eligibility list is 
used, the Appointment subcommittee shall conduct candidate interviews and 
make a recommendation for Council approval. Interviews shall be conducted in a 
noticed public meeting with at least a quorum of the Appointment subcommittee 
present.
I.
At the conclusion of an Appointment subcommittee’s interviews of candidates, 
and the agreement on the recommended candidate, the appointment 
subcommittee may then designate up to two applicants who would be considered 
for listing on the eligibility list for a six-month period. The eligibility list is then 
ranked according to preferred next seating to a Commission vacancy. The list is 
only established with the full agreement of the Appointment subcommittee. It is 
not a requirement that an eligibility list be established if there are not applicants 
that are deemed qualified. This list may be used for automatic next appointments 
in the event of an unscheduled vacancy, the next person on the eligibility list 
would be submitted as the recommended candidate from the Appointment 
subcommittee on the next City Council regular meeting Consent Calendar. 
J.
The full Council will receive the Appointment subcommittee’s recommendation 
and the full list of candidates for each opening. 
K.
The Appointment subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. An agenda report summarizing the Subcommittee’s 
recommendations, including the full list of candidates reviewed for each opening, 
will be provided to the full City Council. Council may adopt the recommendations 
as presented or pull the item for further discussion. The City Council can consider 
for appointment any of the candidates interviewed.
L.
A majority vote of Council approves the appointees. 
M.
Commission recruitment begins annually in the month of March, and completes in 
May, in order to ensure continuity on commissions before terms end June 10th. 
N.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
644 of 1111

--- page 645 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
41
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
O.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by the Parks and Recreation Department. High school 
students from all of the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High 
School and Nueva Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting 
in the late spring of each year.
645 of 1111

--- page 646 ---
San Mateo City Council Rules & Procedures
Proposed Revision 6/16/2025 
42
Chapter 14.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
8.
Emergency Guide for Elected Officials
646 of 1111

--- page 647 ---
Boards and Commissions 
Rules and Procedures
Adopted on August 17, 2015
by Resolution No. 82 (2015)
Amended by Council Action on: 
January 17, 2017, April 17, 2017, April 16, 2018, May 21, 2018, May 3, 2021, 
September 6, 2022 and April 1, 2024
647 of 1111

--- page 648 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
2
City of San Mateo, Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures
Table of Contents
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview .............................................................................................3
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority..............................................................................................4
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles..............................................................................................7
Chapter 4.
Duties .......................................................................................................................8
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair ...........................................................................12
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct ..........................................................................................13
Chapter 7.
Meetings ................................................................................................................16
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas ...................................................................................................21
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters....................................................................................................24
Chapter 10.
Communication......................................................................................................28
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection Process...........................................................32
Chapter 12.
References..............................................................................................................34
648 of 1111

--- page 649 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
3
Chapter 1.
Purpose and Overview 
This manual describes the way the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions do their 
business. It is a compilation of all Board and Commission (hereafter referred to as 
“Commission” for the sake of brevity) rules and procedures that have been formally adopted by 
Council. These Rules and Procedures (“Rules”) supersede individual Commission bylaws. 
These Rules are intended to enhance public participation and debate so that the best possible 
decisions can be made for San Mateo. These Rules set a standard of professionalism, civility and 
decorum for the conduct of the City’s business. San Mateo has a long and proud tradition of 
open government and civil, intelligent public discourse. These rules, which must be approved by 
the City Council as a body, are subject to review and future modification by the City Council as 
needed.
Appointed Board and Commission members are expected to understand and comply with these 
Rules and Procedures. Failure to comply with the rules and procedures outlined in this 
document may be cause for removal from the appointed position.
Amendments to these Rules are made and approved by the City Council as a body; and are 
subject to review and future modification as needed.
649 of 1111

--- page 650 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
4
Chapter 2.
Commission Authority
1.
Commission Authority, Generally
A.
The primary role of City commissions is to increase public input and participation 
in the determination of City policies and some programs. 
B.
The specific role of a City commission is to review and make recommendations to 
the City Council on matters within its scope of responsibility as defined in the 
Charter or Municipal Code. The commissions are basically a citizen’s advisory arm 
of the City Council, although certain commissions, such as the Planning 
Commission, may take final actions in certain prescribed areas.
C.
Most importantly, the commission serves as a vehicle for public input into City 
programs and policies referred to it by the City Council or brought to its attention 
by staff. 
D.
The commission also serves to reduce the reevaluation of these matters before 
the City Council.
E.
On the specific matters referred to it by the City Council, the commission serves as 
the principal reviewing body of the City.
F.
Commissions adhere to the City Council’s policies on the programs under their 
scopes of interest.
G.
Commissions serve to represent the general interests of the entire City and not 
specific program areas or specific interest groups.
H.
Commissions are encouraged to express their views on issues, projects, or policies 
brought to them by the City department.
I.
As further described below, the Planning Commission has a distinct role with the 
City in that it makes decisions and recommendations to the Council on land use 
matters.  These include development applications submitted by project 
proponents.  
2.
Applicability
The complete scope of responsibilities for each commission is identified either in the 
Charter or in the City’s Municipal Code and will be provided by the Departments 
supporting the commission. When not in conflict with the Charter of the City of San 
Mateo, or the Constitution or laws of the State of California, these Commission Rules and 
Procedures (“Rules”) shall be in effect upon adoption of the Council.
650 of 1111

--- page 651 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
5
3.
Authority of Each Board / Commission
The authority of the City of San Mateo’s Boards and Commissions are described in the San 
Mateo City Charter Article VI, as well as its Municipal Code Title 2 Administration and 
Personnel in Chapters 2.15, 2.21, 2.24, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 2.29 and 2.57.
A.
Library Board:
The Library Board oversees the Library department’s policies and accepts in the 
name of the City money, personal and real property donated for Library purposes.
B.
Personnel Board:
The Personnel Board hears appeals submitted by any person in the competitive 
service relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, charge of 
discrimination, or alleged violation of municipal code chapter 2.57, and to certify 
its findings and recommendations as provided in the personnel system rules.
C.
Community Relations Commission (CRC): 
The CRC addresses a broad spectrum of social issues and related policy and 
provides oversight for Federal grant programs that implement public services, 
housing, and community development programs. It is also the hearing and appeals 
board for Code Enforcement related cases.
D.
Park & Recreation Commission:
The Park and Recreation Commission makes recommendations to the City Council 
on acquisition, development, beautification and maintenance of public parks, 
landscape resources, public recreation facilities, budget, and programs of park and 
recreation activities.
E.
Planning Commission:
The Planning Commission hears requests and makes decisions and 
recommendations on land use projects.  This body also recommends policy 
changes to the City Council.
F.
Senior Citizens Commission:
The Senior Citizens Commission encourages, fosters, and facilitates programs for 
the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, and personal 
well-being of the senior population.
651 of 1111

--- page 652 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
6
G.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission was established in 2018, 
consolidating the Public Works Commission and Sustainability Commission into 
one commission. It is the duty of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
to advise on policies and programs related to environmental sustainability, 
transportation and infrastructure.
H.
Investment Advisory Committee (IAC):
The IAC serves as an administrative advisory committee to the City Manager. The 
IAC provides added insight and an independent perspective on the City’s 
investment policies and practices. 
I.
Youth Activity Council (YAC):
The Youth Activity Council provides experiences and opportunities for the youth 
and young adult population by: providing safe and enjoyable activities; creating 
community through special events; enhancing leadership and decision-making 
skills; providing service learning experiences; practicing civic participation and 
empowering our youth’s voice with our decision makers.
4.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
To the extent these Rules do not address an issue of parliamentary procedure for 
legislative body meetings, Rosenberg’s Rules of Order: Simple Parliamentary Procedures 
for the 21st Century shall apply.
652 of 1111

--- page 653 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
7
Chapter 3.
Governance Principles
In alignment with the City Council governance principles, each Board and Commission acts as a 
body, not as individuals. Commissioners understand and acknowledge the City is run on a 
Council-Manager form of governance and will respect professional staff’s role and the City 
Manager as leader of the City organization’s operations. Commissioners should be aware of and 
mindful of the impact of requests on limited staff resources.
653 of 1111

--- page 654 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
8
Chapter 4.
Duties
1.
Duties of the Chair
A.
All City commissions elect a presiding officer, known as a chairperson for a one-
year period.
B.
The Chair sets the tone for the entire meeting.
C.
To conduct meetings of the Commission as its chairperson efficiently:
1.
Ensure that consideration of items on the agenda move along without 
delay.
2.
Ensure that petitioners, proponents, and opponents are heard but not 
allowed to disrupt the meeting. 
3.
Ensure that decorum and civility is maintained during the meeting.
4.
In presiding over matters where the public has provided comment or 
testimony and/or raised questions, the Chair should:
a.
At the end of the public comment period, restate, if any, relevant 
questions from the public. 
b.
Direct questions or comments requiring a response to staff for a 
response. 
c.
Ensure that staff and members of the public direct their comments 
to the chair and commission members.
d.
Help keep Commissioner comments and questions relevant to the 
matter being considered by the Commission, and schedule non-
agenda topics for subsequent meetings, where necessary and if 
agreed upon by the Commission during Reports and 
Announcements. 
e.
If necessary, consider calling for a brief recess if the orderly conduct 
of the meeting is being disrupted. 
f.
Ensure that the decision and vote of the Commission on all subjects 
is announced. This may occur with the assistance of the City Clerk, 
Staff Liaison or commission clerk.
5.
To ensure that each member of the Commission is provided an opportunity 
to completely express their views on items of business, the Chair should:
654 of 1111

--- page 655 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
9
a.
Actively seek commission member comments and ensure that 
Commissioners ask to be recognized by the Chair before speaking to 
maintain an orderly process on the dais.
b.
Make sure that each commission member has had a first chance at 
providing comments, before allowing another commission to make 
additional statements – unless they are asked to clarify their prior 
statement.
c.
Ensure that each commission member is given the opportunity to 
fully express their views.
D.
To correspond on behalf of the Commission, provided that opinions expressed on 
behalf of the Commission or City Government are consistent with the consensus of 
the Commission. 
E.
Nothing under the Chair’s duties shall limit any individual Commissioner’s ability to 
interact with members of the public.
2.
Duties of Vice Chair
In the absence of the Chair from the Commission meeting, the Vice Chair shall possess all 
powers of the Chair and be subject to all prescribed duties for that position.
3.
Duties of Commissioners
A.
Arrive on time for all Commission meetings.
B.
Review all meeting materials in preparation for Commission meetings, and direct 
questions to staff (before meetings, whenever practical) if any item is unclear or 
clarification is needed. 
C.
Alert staff in advance of the meeting whenever possible if an item is intended to 
be pulled off of the Consent Calendar or introduced under Reports and 
Announcements for future Commission consideration.
D.
It is the responsibility of all members to assist the Chair in running an efficient and 
effective meeting by assisting with the orderly disposition of items, helping ensure 
all members are heard, participating fully in meaningful discussion and 
deliberation, keeping comments succinct, concise, civil and germane, and limiting 
repetitive comments. Commissioners are encouraged to hold their colleagues 
accountable for following these rules and do all in their power to contribute to the 
smooth running of a meeting for the community.
E.
All commission members are asked to alert the staff commission liaison when 
receiving media inquiries.
655 of 1111

--- page 656 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
10
F.
It is expected that Commissioners will attend all meetings. If a commissioner is 
absent for three consecutive meetings or for 15% of scheduled meetings annually, 
the City Clerk will notify Council who may take action to vacate the seat. The 
Commissioner is expected to notify the Staff Liaison or Staff Admin if they are 
unable to attend a meeting.
G.
For Planning Commissioners, make every effort to participate in the California 
League of Cities Planning Commissioner Academy during the first year as a 
Commissioner, and every other year thereafter.
H.
Read, and use as a primary reference, the Institute for Local Government’s 
Planning Commission Handbook. 
4.
Duties of Staff Liaison
A.
The liaison, an assigned City staff person, has the following responsibilities:
1.
Create meeting schedules.
2.
Prepare meeting agendas and Agenda Reports.
3.
Notify the City Clerk of attendance problems, resignations, and members’ 
change of contact information.
4.
Ensure that sufficient research and analysis has been performed by staff to 
allow an informed decision by the Commission.
5.
Help facilitate and advise the Chair on meeting management.
6.
Ensure that all affected departments have an opportunity for input before 
bringing an item forward for commission consideration.
7.
For the Planning Commission, arrange an annual joint meeting with the 
City Council.
B.
The Staff Liaison, along with the City Clerk, is responsible for ensuring that 
appointed board/commission members are oriented about policies and 
procedures as they relate to the body.
C.
All communications addressed to a specific Board or Commission are received by 
the staff liaison, or their designee, and relayed to the appointed body.
656 of 1111

--- page 657 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
11
5.
Duties of Administrative Staff
Each commission also has an administrative staff person (Staff Admin), who works with 
the Staff Liaison, to support the body. Their responsibilities are to:
A.
Provide oversight of agenda preparation and its delivery to the full Commission 
and to the public.
B.
Ensure that meeting materials--including a sufficient number of agendas, universal 
speaker slips, and at least one binder of all related reports being presented at that 
meeting–are available for the public to examine at the meeting.
C.
Produce the action minutes for each meeting.
D.
Provide annually a record of attendance of each commissioner to the City Clerk.
6.
Duties of Council Liaison
A.
Every year the Mayor will appoint Council Members to serve as liaisons to the 
City’s Boards and Commissions.
B.
Council Members act as an advisor and resource to Commissioners and the 
commission’s Staff Liaison when issues regarding process, procedure, 
interpersonal or public relations arise. Commissioners are also welcome to 
approach the Council Liaison for support or if they have any concerns. Council 
Members should refrain from participation at Board and Commission meetings to 
avoid influencing the outcome of those meetings.
657 of 1111

--- page 658 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
12
Chapter 5.
Selection of Chair and Vice Chair
1.
Commission reorganization, including rotation of the roles of the Chair and Vice Chair, 
occurs annually at the meeting as close as possible to June 10th of each year. The results 
of the vote should be publicly announced; and the vote recorded in the minutes.
2.
Nomination of commissioners to serve as Chair and Vice Chair for the coming year can be 
made by any of the current commissioners in attendance.
3.
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected by a majority of the commission for a one-year term 
and hold office until their successors are elected or until their terms as members of the 
commission expire.
4.
The normal convention is a rotation from Vice Chair to Chair. Deviation from this normal 
convention should be extremely rare and must be accompanied by stated justification by 
the Commissioner making a nomination that does not conform to the normal convention.
5.
The City Council believes that experience as a Commissioner will assist those who are 
selected to serve as Chair or Vice Chair, and that it is in everyone’s best interest that 
candidates have experience in cycles of governing to acclimate themselves to the jobs, 
tasks, and roles of the Commission. 
658 of 1111

--- page 659 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
13
Chapter 6.
Commissioner Conduct 
1.
Members are committed to governing for all, striving to avoid any appearance of 
impropriety, and running our meetings with civility, decorum, and respect. With that 
spirit, Members shall:
A.
Govern as a body. If we work together well as a team, our City will excel. 
B.
Treat all with dignity, courtesy, and respect. This includes staff, each other, or 
members of the public, on and off the dais. 
C.
Keep confidential matters confidential. 
D.
Respect process and roles. This includes avoiding interruptions and distractions. 
E.
Agree to disagree in a respectful manner. We focus on the issue not the person. 
F.
Keep our comments clear, concise, and on-topic. This respects our colleagues’, the 
public’s, and staffs’ time. 
G.
Give each other a chance to speak. Everyone gets to speak before another of us 
speaks for a second time. We refrain from dominating the discussion. 
H.
The Chair normally speaks last. After other members of the Commission have 
offered their opinions, the Chair speaks. The Chair can speak after each round of 
speaking by Members. 
I.
Be mindful of the impact of our words and tone. We consider this as we address 
each other, staff, and the public. 
J.
Promote discussion and resolution. We present problems and issues in that way. 
K.
Follow the agenda. We begin and end meetings on time. 
L.
Respect the City Charter, rule of law, and decisions once made. We do not attempt 
to undermine decisions. 
M.
Speak for the City only when specifically authorized (see Chapter 10, 
Communication, sections regarding “Speaking for the City” and “Speaking as an 
Individual”). 
N.
Practice a “no surprises” rule. We give a heads up to the Commission staff liaison, 
and City Attorney’s Office represenative (if applicable) out of respect and 
teamwork. 
659 of 1111

--- page 660 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
14
O.
Practice the principles of inclusivity and self-awareness to guard against implicit 
bias in our actions and decisions. 
P.
Adhere to all federal, state, and local laws in the performance of their public 
duties, including conflict-of-interest laws. 
Q.
 Not engage in discussion with a member of the public during the meeting.1
R.
Determine whether to schedule a future agenda item for discussion and/or action, 
during Reports and Announcements, when non-agenda items are raised in the 
course of the meeting. 
S.
Meet with the Council liaison to the Commission when requested.
T.
Pay close attention the meeting and limit the use of electronic devices while on the 
dais, except as necessary to access agenda materials or respond to urgent personal 
matters.
U.
When acting in a quasi-judicial capacity: keep an open mind, do not rush to pre-
judge any matter, and be fair and neutral towards all concerned parties.  This 
applies to statements that are verbal and written, including those posted on social 
media.  At the beginning of the hearing, disclose any ex parte communications 
(oral or written communications from one party outside of the hearing) and 
describe the nature and substance of the communication.
2.
Commissioners may not be employed by the City or provide services under a contract 
with the City. Commissioners may not volunteer in the operations arm of the department 
their commission is affiliated with, without Department Head approval. However, 
Commissioners are encouraged to volunteer for city events, put on by any City 
department, or volunteer in any capacity in other City departments. Commissioners 
enhance their presence in the community by volunteering with local non-profits or 
assisting with community events and serving on special committees.
3.
Commissioners are subject to all the provisions of the City’s Harassment and 
Discrimination Policy (#301).
4.
Commissioners shall complete ethics training at least once every two years, beginning 
with calendar year 2025.   
5.
Enforcement.
A.
Where a Commissioner is allegedly not following the rules set forth in this Chapter 
(“Code of Conduct”), any concerned Council member is encouraged to resolve the 
1 Items Q-T are included within the existing Commissioner Conduct chapter and do not overlap with the 
new conduct. Staff recommends retaining items Q-T for this reason. 
660 of 1111

--- page 661 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
15
matter on an informal basis through direct conversations, or by referral to the Mayor or 
Council Liaison to the Commission to privately counsel the subject Commissioner.  
B.
If the offense(s) continue, or if warranted due to the serious nature of an initial 
violation, two Council members may file a complaint regarding the conduct of a 
Commissioner for an alleged violation of the Code of Conduct.  The complaint shall 
be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, with a copy to the City Manager and City 
Attorney.  A copy of the complaint shall be promptly provided to the Council and 
to the Commissioner.  The City Clerk shall place the complaint on the next 
available City Council agenda for initial consideration.  The Commissioner who is 
the subject of the complaint may include a written response to be included with 
the agenda packet or may verbally address the complaint at the Council meeting, 
or both.  
C.
At the meeting where the complaint is considered, a Council majority (3 votes) 
shall decide whether to (1) take no action, (2) reprimand the subject 
Commissioner and require them to promptly take ethics training (in addition to 
any training required by law), or (3) schedule the matter for a future hearing to 
consider a formal resolution of censure, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment 
of expenses such as for official travel.  Alternatively, the Council may direct the 
City Manager or City Attorney to investigate the matter, or to engage a third party 
to do so, and bring it back to the Council following completion of the investigation.  
D.
If a Council majority (3 votes) directs the scheduling of a hearing, it should also 
appoint one or two Council members to draft a censure resolution to be included 
with the agenda packet.  At the hearing, the Commissioner who is the subject of 
the complaint shall have the opportunity to rebut the allegations in the report 
either themselves or through a representative.  The formal rules of evidence shall 
not apply, and the hearing shall be generally informal.  
E.
At the close of the hearing, a Council majority (3 votes) shall decide whether to (1) 
take no action, (2) issue a reprimand and require the Commissioner to promptly 
take ethics training (beyond what is required by law), or (3) adopt a censure 
resolution, revoke seniority, and/or restrict payment of expenses such as for 
official travel.  Any action taken by the Council is final and is not subject to appeal 
or reconsideration.  
661 of 1111

--- page 662 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
16
Chapter 7.
Meetings
1.
All Commission decisions must be taken at Commission meetings only after hearing the 
presentation, project applicants, and hearing all public comments/testimony, then only 
under Commission discussion with colleagues should Commission Members opinions be 
shared, and deliberations engaged in before making any decision or taking action.
2.
No business may be transacted by the commission at a regular or special meeting unless a 
quorum of the membership is present (50% plus one of those currently appointed).
3.
Commission Meeting Dates
A.
If at any time any regular meeting of the Commission falls on a holiday or if it is 
known that a quorum will not be available, the meeting may be rescheduled to the 
earliest convenient time.
B.
The Boards and Commissions shall adopt a schedule of quarterly or more frequent 
meetings on an annual basis, which become the regular meeting dates.
C.
Regular meeting dates may be amended with the approval of the Commission.
4.
Types of Meetings
A.
Regular Meetings are those identified in the adopted meeting schedule. Regular 
meetings are agendized and posted at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. 
B.
Special Meetings are called at a non-regular meeting date and time. They are 
called by the Chair or Commission with a minimum of 24 hours’ notice, versus 72 
hours’ notice for regular meetings.
C.
Study Sessions are special meetings that are held for the purpose of providing 
information to the Commission, particularly on issues that are more complex or 
more time-consuming than matters typically scheduled on regular Commission 
meetings. At study sessions Commissioners may collectively provide direction to 
City staff, or to an applicant in the case of the Planning Commission. Typically, no 
action is taken at the study sessions, but direction may be given.
D.
Closed Sessions at the commission level would be very rare and would only occur 
at the direction of the City Attorney. The procedures for the conduct of the closed 
sessions shall be the same as those for open session meetings, except that the 
public, after allowance for public comment, will be excluded.
E.
Emergency Meetings are allowed per the Ralph M. Brown Act when an emergency 
situation involving matters upon which prompt action is necessary due to the 
disruption or threatened disruption of the public’s well-being. 
662 of 1111

--- page 663 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
17
F.
Adjourned Meetings due to Power Outages
In the event a quorum of the body loses electrical power or suffers an internet 
connection outage not corrected within 15 minutes, the meeting may be 
adjourned to a date certain. Any items noticed as public hearings will be continued 
to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Any other agenda 
items the Commission has not taken action on will be placed on a future agenda.
5.
Voting
A motion, second, and a majority vote of the Commission shall be required for any formal 
action of Commission. If the meeting is virtual, or any member is teleconferencing in, the 
vote must be taken by roll call vote.
6.
The Chair, with the approval of a majority of the Commission, can change the order of 
hearing of items on the agenda. Staff may make suggestions on the order due to practical 
and logistical issues.
7.
Public Participation
A.
All members of the public are encouraged and invited to participate in the 
legislative process of the City’s Boards and Commissions, for example by 
submission of comments before the meeting or speaking in person, or virtually 
when offered, at the scheduled meeting.
B.
It is the intent of these rules to allow everyone to be heard without fear of cheers 
or jeers that may discourage public participation. For these reasons, these rules 
are taken seriously. Disruptive or unruly behavior can result in removal from the 
Commission meeting to the extent allowed by state law.  The presiding member of 
a legislative body may remove an individual for disrupting a meeting after the 
individual first receives a warning yet continues the disruptive behavior. The 
legislative body may also decide to clear the room if interruptions render the 
orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible and order cannot be restored by the 
removal of disruptive individual(s) alone.
C.
Public meetings are considered a limited public forum in which the speaker must 
stay on-topic if speaking to a particular agenda item. If speaking during general 
public comment, they must address matters within the subject matter jurisdiction 
of the City. If speakers fail to follow these rules, they will be warned, and if they 
continue to disregard the rules, their opportunity to speak will be ended.
D.
The Chair may, at their discretion with commission concurrence, limit the amount 
of time allotted to speakers when needed, per the following time limits.
663 of 1111

--- page 664 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
18
E.
Generally, time Limits for public comment are dependent on the number of 
speakers:
1.
Individual Speakers - 3 minutes 
a. between 1 -10: 3 minutes
b. between 11-20: 2 minutes
c.
over 21 speakers: 1 minute
2.
Organized group (in lieu of individual speakers) – up to five (5) minutes for 
a group presentation, as many speakers as fit within the time allowance.
3.
Yielding of Time. To ensure that all persons have an ample opportunity to 
be heard, all speakers will be recognized for the same amount of time. No 
speaker will be allowed to yield all or part of their time to another, and no 
speaker will be credited with time requested but not used by another.
4.
The Chair shall manage public comments such that no individual speaker is 
allotted a disproportionate amount of time. 
F.
In-person members of the public are invited to speak at the lectern microphone, 
whenever available, to ensure all attendees can hear and so that the recording can 
be captured.
G.
Individuals who wish to speak in-person should submit a speaker card to the 
commission’s Staff Admin for in-person meetings. For remote meetings conducted 
virtually, the raise the hand feature is used and managed by the Staff Admin. The 
Staff Admin will announce the last opportunity to submit forms or raise hands and 
announce when the time has closed for public comment on any particular item.
H.
Commissioners should be careful to not engage in back-and-forth questions or 
discussion with public speakers. If a member of the public raises a question, the 
Chair should invite staff (or an applicant before the Planning Commission) to 
respond to any questions raised at the end of the public comment period.
8.
Agendized Discussion Items (Public Hearings, New Business, Old Business)
A.
Staff / applicant presentation
B.
Open public hearing (or public comment section) for testimony
C.
Close public hearing (or public comment section)
664 of 1111

--- page 665 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
19
D.
Response by staff to public questions/concerns (or by an applicant before the 
Planning Commission), if warranted
E.
Council questions to applicant and/or staff.
F.
Commission discussion and deliberation.
G.
Commission votes.
9.
Appeals
A.
Appeals are public hearings and will follow the order stated above with the 
following time allocations:
1.
Appellant – 15 minutes
2.
Applicant – 15 minutes
3.
Individual Speakers – as outlined in Section 7(E)1 above.
4.
Rebuttal (Applies to Appellant and Applicant) – 5 minutes each.
5.
Clarification (Staff may offer explanation or clarification for the testimony) 
6.
If the appellant is also the applicant, only one 15-minute presentation is 
allowed. 
B.
Any person that addressed the Commission during one of the fifteen-minute 
periods may not speak again during the public comment period for individual 
speakers on the appeal. 
10.
Items Considered after 11:00 p.m.
11.
At 11 pm, in order to ensure effective discourse on an item, the Commission will 
determine with a majority vote on whether to continue with an item or take up any 
unheard items.
12.
Action Minutes
A.
The City Council and all of its Boards and Commissions shall use Action Minutes to 
record the decisions of the body.
B.
Action Minutes contain very little, if any, narrative content and do not capture 
details of public comments, or Commissioner comments, questions, and opinions. 
The staff is responsible for producing the minutes. Commissioners may request 
665 of 1111

--- page 666 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
20
correction only of factual errors when presented with the draft minutes. No supplemental 
materials may be appended to minutes. 
C.
Motions and votes are shown in the record, whenever applicable.
D.
Media (audio/video) recordings will be used to provide a verbatim record of 
meetings and are kept as identified in the City’s Records Retention Schedule.
13.
Conflict of Interest
A.
The Political Reform Act (PRA), implemented and enforced by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission (FPPC), controls financial conflicts of interest. 
B.
The other applicable law is Government Code §1090, which applies only to City 
contracts in which a public official has a financial interest.
C.
Whenever it appears to a Commissioner that they may have a prohibited financial 
interest in any City contract, or an item that may be presented to the Commission, 
the Commissioner should consult with the City Attorney at the earliest opportunity 
for advice on whether a disqualifying conflict of interest exists. 
D.
If the City Attorney is consulted on such a matter, the City Attorney shall provide 
their advice in writing, and shall provide a copy of their opinion to the 
Commission, the City Council, the City Manager, the affiliated Department Head, 
and the Staff Liaison.
E.
With full consideration of the City Attorney’s advice, it is up to each individual 
Council Member to decide for themselves whether there is a conflict of interest.
F.
A member shall not vote upon or participate in any matter on which they have a 
conflict of interest.
G.
A member shall openly state the reason for their conflict of interest.
H.
A member who is disqualified by a conflict of interest shall recuse themselves from 
the dais and leave the room unless it is during the Consent Calendar
666 of 1111

--- page 667 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
21
Chapter 8.
Meeting Agendas
1.
Agenda Order
Commission agendas will be prepared by the Staff Liaison to the commission and 
presented to the Commission in the order described below.
A.
Opening
1.
Pledge of Allegiance
2.
Roll Call
B.
Consent Calendar
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Commission 
to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If discussion is 
desired, that item may be removed by a Commission member and considered 
separately. Members of the public may speak to any Consent Calendar item 
without the item being pulled. 
C.
Public Comment
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the 
agenda may address the Commission at this time. State law prevents Commissions 
from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Comments may be referred 
to staff for follow-up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, 
an opportunity for additional public comment will be provided later in the agenda, 
if needed. Timing is per Chapter 7(E)1 of these Rules.
D.
Public Hearing
Duly noticed hearings as mandated by local, state, or federal law, providing an 
opportunity for public review and comment of a proposed action by the 
Commission.
E.
Old Business
Non-routine items that have been presented before that require further oral 
presentation and/or discussion before action is taken.
F.
New Business
Non-routine items requiring an oral presentation and discussion before action is 
taken.
667 of 1111

--- page 668 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
22
G.
Reports and Announcements
Commissioners provide an update on any meetings they attended in their 
commissioner role and Commissioners may make individual requests to schedule 
future items for consideration. A majority vote of the Commission is required to 
place a request on a future agenda.  
H.
Additional Public Comment (if needed)
I.
Adjourn
2.
Agenda Item Submission
A.
The Staff Liaison coordinates all agenda items for consideration on a given agenda. 
In order to ensure that each item for discussion has been thoroughly analyzed in 
advance, an Agenda Report shall be prepared.  
1.
The preparation of Agenda Reports applies to all Boards and Commissions 
in order to ensure:
a.
The Board or Commission has all the information needed to make a 
well-informed decision; and 
b.
Any action is fully transparent to the public. 
2.
Agenda Reports shall be part of the public agenda packet issued prior to 
the meeting. Copies of the agenda, Agenda Reports and supporting 
materials shall be made available to the public at the meeting.
B.
A Commissioner may request an item be considered on a future agenda and, upon 
a majority vote of the Commission, staff will prepare an Agenda Report and 
agendize the item for a future meeting. Before the vote, staff will provide 
information, if available, on how much staff time would be required to produce 
the Agenda Report.
C.
Members of the Public 
1.
A member of the public may request Commission action in the following 
ways:
a.
Write a letter or email to the Commission. 
b.
Speak during the Public Comment period at a Board / Commission 
meeting.
668 of 1111

--- page 669 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
23
2.
The first response is for the staff liaison to address concerns raised directly 
outside the meeting regarding the issue. 
3.
If a majority of the Commission agrees, the item will be agendized at a 
future meeting.
669 of 1111

--- page 670 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
24
Chapter 9.
Financial Matters
1.
All Commissioners serve as volunteers without compensation or a stipend.
2.
Commissioner Expense Reimbursement Policy
It is rare that a Commissioner would need reimbursement, but in the event that they do, 
the following policy shall apply:
A.
Authorized Expenses
1.
City funds, equipment, supplies, titles, and staff time must only be used for 
authorized city business. 
2.
Expenses incurred while attending educational seminars designed to 
improve officials’ skill and information levels are permitted with pre-
approval from the affiliated Department Head.
3.
All other expenses require prior approval by the City Council.
4.
The City will not reimburse the following expenses:
a.
The personal portion of any trip.
b.
Political contributions or events.
c.
Family expenses, including partner’s expenses when accompanying 
official on agency-related business.
d.
Entertainment expenses, such as movies, sporting events, or 
cultural events.
e.
Non-mileage personal automobile expenses, including repairs, 
citations, insurance or gasoline.
B.
Cost Control
To conserve City resources and keep expenses within community standards for 
public officials, expenditures should adhere to the following guidelines. If expenses 
are incurred that exceed these guidelines, the cost borne or reimbursed by the 
City will be limited to the costs that fall within these guidelines.
1.
Airfare
Airfares that are equal to or less than those available through the League of 
California Cities, the California State Association of Counties and the State 
670 of 1111

--- page 671 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
25
of California are presumed to be the most economical and reasonable for 
purposes of reimbursement under this policy. If no discounted airfare is 
available through these entities, then the most reasonable and economical 
airfare possible.
2.
Airport Parking
Long-term parking must be used for travel exceeding 24 hours.
3.
Automobile
Mileage shall be reimbursed at IRS rates presently in effect (see 
www.irs.gov). These rates are designed to compensate the driver for 
gasoline, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses. In addition, drivers 
may be reimbursed for bridge and road tolls. For rental vehicles, only 
receipted fuel expenses will be reimbursed.
4.
Car Rental
Rental rates that are equal or less than those available through the State of 
California’s website Car Rental Resources for State Travel shall be 
considered the most economical and reasonable for purposes of 
reimbursement under this policy.
5.
Conferences/Meetings
If such lodging is in connection with a conference, lodging expenses must 
not exceed the group rate published by the conference sponsor for the 
meeting in question if such rates are available at the time of booking. If the 
group rate is not available, rates that are equal to or less than the group 
rate at the host hotel are presumed to be reasonable and reimbursable for 
purposes of this policy.
6.
Internet
Officials will be reimbursed for Internet access connection and/or usage 
fees away from home, if Internet access is necessary for City business.
7.
Lodging
Commissioners are expected to select the most cost-effective and logical 
lodging available, including utilizing the lodging at the conference/training 
site, if available. If there is not specific lodging associated with the official 
City business, the City shall pay for actual lodging expenses up to the 
United States General Services Administration (GSA) maximum rate 
allowed by location (http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/104877). This 
671 of 1111

--- page 672 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
26
maximum applies to the room rate only and does not include any taxes or 
fees. Government rates for lodging are often available and should be 
sought. The City will pay only for standard single rooms, including taxes 
and fees, for individual Council members, and any additional nonbusiness 
expenses incurred will be paid by the Council member.
8.
Meals
The City will pay for a Commissioner’s meals during authorized, required 
travel up to the per diem amount (Per Diem Rates | GSA). If meals are 
included in the cost of a conference or training, the City will not pay for a 
meal that a Commissioner elects to purchase from another source. Unlike 
lodging, using the per diem methodology for meals that is limited to the 
GSA amount eliminates the need for employees to submit receipts. Thus, 
the Commissioner only needs to report the per diem amounts in the 
expense report, but not the actual receipts. This only applies to meals, as 
all other travel expenses require a receipt to substantiate the purchase. 
When the meal function is an organized event, the official shall be 
reimbursed the amount being charged by the event organizer for the meal. 
The City will not pay for alcohol/personal bar expenses.
9.
Taxis/Shuttles
Taxis or shuttle fares may be reimbursed, including a 15 percent gratuity 
per fare, when the cost of such fares is equal or less than the cost of car 
rentals, gasoline, and parking combined, or when such transportation is 
necessary for time-efficiency.
10.
Telephone/Fax/Cellular
Officials will be reimbursed for actual telephone and fax expenses incurred 
on City business. Telephone bills should identify which calls were made on 
City business.
11.
Transportation
Officials traveling on City business shall use the most economical mode and 
class of transportation reasonably consistent with scheduling needs and 
cargo space requirements, using the most direct, time-efficient route. 
Government and group rates must be used when available.
672 of 1111

--- page 673 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
27
C.
Expense Reports
1.
Expense reimbursement requests must be submitted on an expense report 
form provided by the City. Reports must document how the expenditure 
met the requirements of this policy.
2.
Expense reports must be submitted within 30 days of an expense being 
incurred; and must be accompanied by receipts documenting each 
expense. 
3.
Expense reports are a public record.
D.
Audits of Expenses
All expenses are subject to verification that they comply with this policy.
E.
Reports on Meetings
Each official shall briefly give an oral report on any Brown Act meetings they 
attended for which they receive expense reimbursement at their next City Council, 
Board, or Commission meeting.
F.
Violation of this Policy
Under state law, use of public resources or falsifying expense reports in violation 
of this policy may result in any or all of the following: 1) loss of reimbursement 
privileges, 2) a demand for restitution to the City, 3) the agency’s reporting the 
expenses as income to the official to state and federal tax authorities, 4) civil 
penalties of up to $1,000 per day and three times the value of the resources used, 
and 5) prosecution for misuse of public resources.
673 of 1111

--- page 674 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
28
Chapter 10.
Communication
1.
All communications are public records. 
All letters, memoranda, email, texts and other platform writing communications involving 
members of boards, commissions, committees and task forces, the subject of which relate 
to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental function, with a 
few exceptions as outlined in the Public Records Act, are public records. 
2.
The City Council, in adopting this policy, does not waive attorney-client privilege or any 
other privilege associated with a closed session authorized under the Ralph M. Brown Act. 
3.
Ralph M. Brown Act
Each Commissioner should be mindful of all the requirements of the Brown Act in 
communicating with each other.
4.
Correspondence
A.
After the Commission has taken a position on an issue, official correspondence 
should reflect this position. While Commissioners who may disagree with a 
position are free to prepare correspondence on such issues as private citizens, City 
letterhead, official Board or Commission title, and staff support should not be 
utilized.
B.
City letterhead, logo, insignia and brand, as well as, staff support cannot be 
utilized for personal or political purposes.
C.
Generally, correspondence relating to a specific Commission agenda item shall be 
distributed with the agenda report; correspondence received after the publication 
of agenda packet will be compiled and distributed to the Commission prior to the 
meeting (known as a Dais packet). This additional correspondence is appended to 
the Agenda Report as public comment on the public meeting portal and in the 
records repository permanent record. Any further correspondence received 
between posting of the Dais packet and until the end of when the item is heard, 
will also be appended to the Agenda report as supplemental correspondence.
5.
Electronic Communication Record Retention
A.
Commissioners are issued City of San Mateo email addresses and are required to 
use this email for all commission related communication. The City email may not 
be forwarded to a personal email. 
B.
All emails sent and received through the City server are saved for at least three 
years on the City’s network and are subject to the Public Records Act.
674 of 1111

--- page 675 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
29
C.
Communication on social media sites are saved for at least two years.
D.
Text messages sent on any City-provided device are saved for at least two years.
6.
Social Media Use as a Commission Member
Social media are internet-based platforms that allow for interactive communication and 
engagement with the public. For example, these may include (without limitation): 
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, Snapchat, Nextdoor, blogs, etc.
The City’s image as a professional organization is critical to maintaining the respect of the 
public, and members should use discretion when posting or communicating on social 
media. If Commission Members choose to maintain and use personal social media 
accounts to conduct City business, they must follow current federal and state regulations, 
as well as Council and City policies.
A.
Brown Act:  Social media postings may turn into an interactive dialogue. The 
Brown Act has expanded to provide guidance on elected officials’ use of media 
platforms that are free of charge and open and accessible to the public.
1.
Permitted Uses: You may answer questions, provide information to the 
public and solicit information from the public about city business; share a 
City post to your Council Member site; and tag other elected officials in a 
post.
2.
Prohibited Uses: A majority of the members may not use social media to 
discuss agency business and a member may not respond directly to any 
posting by another member regarding agency business including no ‘likes’ 
‘thumbs up’, ‘emojis’ or other symbols.
B.
First Amendment. Commissioners’ social media platforms can become public 
forums subject to First Amendment requirements.  If a social media platform is 1) 
used for City business and 2) has interactive features that are accessible to the 
public without limitation, it is a public forum.  The City’s Social Media Policy 
contains rules for public participation and addresses what will constitute 
unacceptable content.  In general, officials may not block a member of the public 
from their social media sites if those sites have become public forums.  If 
unacceptable content appears on a site that has become a public forum, please 
consult with City staff.
C.
Public Records: Members are prohibited from deleting social media posts and 
related comments regarding any City-related matters to avoid violating the 
California Public Records Act. Social media is subject to the City’s record retention 
schedule.
675 of 1111

--- page 676 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
30
D.
Best practices: Officials should be honest and accurate when posting information 
or news, especially when communicating during a crisis or emergency. Any 
mistakes, misstatements and/or factual errors must be corrected quickly upon 
discovery. News of citywide importance should first be announced by the official 
City-affiliated accounts then can be reshared by Commissioners. Unless the 
member has been designated to serve as a spokesperson, members should never 
represent themselves as a spokesperson for the entire Commission or City. 
Members should be mindful of recognizing that accomplishments of the City or 
Commission are achieved by collective action of the entire body or organization, 
not by any individual commissioner.
E.
Quasi-Judicial Capacity:  see Chapter 6 (Commissioner Conduct) for rules 
addressing the use of social media when Commissioners are acting in a quasi-
judicial capacity.  
7.
Written Communications for Commission Meetings on Agenda Items
A.
The deadline for the receipt of written communications for inclusion in the agenda 
packet is up to 4:00 pm one week before the Commission meeting. This is to allow 
for adequate staff review and analysis, and to ensure public access to information; 
on all plans, correspondence, and other documents being heard by the 
Commission. Contact the Commission’s Staff Liaison or Staff Admin for specifics.
B.
To be included in the addendum to the packet, items may be received up until 4 
pm the day of the scheduled meeting. 
C.
Materials distributed to Commissioners during the meeting shall be available for 
viewing by the public during the meeting if the materials were prepared by the 
City or a Commissioner, or at the conclusion of the meeting if prepared by another 
person.
D.
If a Commissioner receives materials regarding an agenda item, they shall forward 
it the Staff Liaison as soon as possible.
8.
Commission - Staff Relations
A.
Commissioners may make requests of City staff through their Department Head 
for limited research and information. Requests that will require significant staff 
time, as determined by the Staff Liaison, may be referred to the full Commission 
and only pursued if supported by a majority of the Commission.  All requests for 
research and information shall be made through the Staff Liaison.
B.
Commissioners are encouraged to submit their questions on agenda items to the 
Staff Liaison as far in advance of the meeting as possible so that staff can be 
prepared to respond at the Commission meeting. 
676 of 1111

--- page 677 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
31
C.
Clarifications or technical questions will be answered before the meeting 
whenever possible.
D.
Questions and all staff-prepared responses will be forwarded to all 
Commissioners.
9.
Speaking for “the City”
Similar to written correspondence, when Commissioners are requested to speak to 
groups or are asked the Commission’s position on an issue, the response should reflect 
the position of the Commission as a whole. Of course, a member may clarify their vote on 
a matter by stating, for example, “While I voted against X, the Commission voted in 
support of it.” When representing the City at meetings or other venues, it is important 
that those in attendance gain an understanding of the Commission’s position rather than 
that of an individual member.  
10.
Speaking as an Individual
On occasion, Commissioners may wish to transmit correspondence on an issue upon 
which the Commission has yet to take a position or about an issue for which the 
Commission has no position. In these circumstances, members should clearly indicate in 
their communications that they are not speaking for the Commission or the City as a 
whole, but for themselves as an individual.  
677 of 1111

--- page 678 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
32
Chapter 11.
Boards and Commissions Selection 
Process
1.
Refer to the San Mateo City Charter Article VI on Boards and Commissions.
2.
Reappointments, Vacancies and Appointments
A.
The City Clerk’s Office manages the Boards and Commissions (hereafter referred 
to as “Commission” for ease of reference) application process. The process begins 
with the Clerk contacting members who are eligible for appointment to a second 
term and finding out their interest in reappointment.  
B.
The City Clerk then shares the results with each appointment subcommittee and 
receives direction on the need to schedule an appointment subcommittee meeting 
to provide direction on reappointments. The default is that currently serving 
Commissioners will each be interviewed for reappointment. However, if it is 
determined that a commissioner’s performance is outstanding, or that other 
factors necessitate keeping them in their role, then an automatic reappointment 
can occur with a majority vote or majority consensus of the City Council. Any 
commission seat selected for re-interview means the seat will be processed as part 
of the full annual recruitment and the currently sitting commissioner may be 
interviewed along with other applicants. Commission recruitment occurs annually 
in the months of April and May and is managed by the City Clerk’s Office. For these 
routine vacancies, the announcement is made approximately two months prior to 
the date on which the vacancy is to occur.
C.
The City Clerk recruits for all open seats utilizing multiple avenues including 
advertising, the website, social media and networking lists to present qualified 
candidates to the Council for consideration.
D.
The interview and selection of candidates is an open process.
E.
The City Clerk receives the applications (ideally a minimum of three applications is 
sought for each vacant seat) and arranges for the appropriate sub-committee, in a 
noticed special meeting, to interview applicants and form their recommendation.
F.
Commissioners, Board and committee members (hereafter referred to as 
“Commissioners” for ease of reference) are appointed by a majority vote of the 
City Council and serve staggered terms.
G.
A City Council Appointment Subcommittee conducts the candidate interviews and 
makes a recommendation for Council approval. The Council will receive the full list 
of candidates for each opening. 
678 of 1111

--- page 679 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
33
H.
The Appointment Subcommittee recommendations for new and reappointed 
Commissioners are confirmed by Council under the Consent Calendar at regular 
Council meetings. A staff report summarizing the Subcommittees’ 
recommendations will be provided to the full City Council and will include the list 
of all candidates reviewed by the subcommittee. The Council may adopt the 
recommendations as presented or pull the item for further discussion. A majority 
vote of the Council approves the appointees.
I.
The designated Appointment Subcommittee may establish an eligibility list for up 
to two applicants that will remain in effect for a six-month period.
J.
Unscheduled Vacancies
1.
Subject to the Maddy Act (California Government Code § 54970), if an 
unscheduled vacancy occurs on a commission, the Council may either 
appoint from the pool of applicants on file (the eligibility list if there is one 
available) or open up the position to new applications where the above 
process is followed.
2.
For such non-routine vacancies, the announcement for new applications is 
made as soon as possible in order to maintain viable memberships on the 
various boards and commissions.
3.
All appointments occur in an open public meeting.
K.
Youth Activities Council (YAC) Selection Process
The YAC is not appointed directly by the City Council but through an application 
method administered by Parks and Recreation. High school students from all of 
the City’s public high schools, as well as Junipero Serra High School and Nueva 
Upper School, are recruited for potential participation starting in the late spring of 
each year.
679 of 1111

--- page 680 ---
Boards & Commissions Rules and Procedures
34
Chapter 12.
References
1.
San Mateo City Charter, §2.03, 2.04, 2.12, Article VI
2.
Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code, § 54950 et seq.)
3.
California Government Code, § 53234 et seq.
4.
San Mateo Municipal Code
5.
California Public Records Act (California Government Code, § 6250 et seq.)
6.
AB 1234 California Government Code, § 53232.3
7.
Rosenberg’s Rules of Order
680 of 1111

--- page 681 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  38
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 25-10025
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Zoning Code Amendments and Below Market Rate Program Update — Ordinance Introduction 
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to address affordable housing compliance options, planning 
application procedures, and set minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects; and approve a 
Resolution to update the City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program to implement various policies and programs 
established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle); and find that the Ordinance and Resolution 
are exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183.
BACKGROUND:
San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element provides a plan to accommodate the City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation 
(RHNA) of 7,015 new housing units, to support the production of housing at all income levels, and to affirmatively further 
fair housing for the Sixth Housing Element Cycle. The City Council adopted the 2023-2031 Housing Element on May 20, 
2024, and it was subsequently certified by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) on 
July 23, 2024. California requires all local governments (cities and counties) to adequately plan to meet the housing needs 
of their communities. Local governments meet this requirement by adopting Housing Elements, which are updated every 
eight years. The Housing Element is a chapter of a city’s General Plan, is the only element of the General Plan subject to 
State requirements for content, and it must be certified by HCD. State funding programs for transportation, infrastructure, 
and housing often require or consider a local jurisdiction’s compliance with housing element law. In addition, non-
compliant housing element requirements and targets could potentially affect a local jurisdiction’s ability to impose local 
zoning and land use controls over housing development and receive certain types of State funding and grants. 
The Housing Element includes five goals to support compliance with state law and to achieve the City’s RHNA – supporting 
Production, Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing. To achieve these goals during 
this Housing Cycle, the Housing Element includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions, with many of these Housing 
Element policies and programs requiring Zoning Code amendments. Based on the implementation plan timeline and for 
practical and efficiency purposes, staff bundled a number of these amendments together for City Council approval. On 
April 7, 2025, the City Council adopted an ordinance to amend several chapters of the Zoning Code to complete Housing 
Element implementation actions under Policies H1.7, H1.13, H1.14, H1.15, H1.16, and H3.7.  
For this bundle of Zoning Code amendments, the Ordinance (Attachment 1) amends several chapters of Title 27 (Zoning) of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) to implement programs to support the goal of housing production within the 
Housing Element. These include the following items, which are discussed in more detail in the discussion section below:
•
Allow for alternative compliance options for required onsite affordable dwelling units in housing development 
projects (Policy H1.3)
681 of 1111

--- page 682 ---
•
Add provisions for appeal procedures for processing planning applications (Policy H1.6)
•
Modify provisions for approved planning application expiration and extensions (Policy H1.6)
•
Modify language for approval authority of development projects that exceed height thresholds (Policy H1.6)
•
Set minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects (Policy H1.9)
The City’s Below Market Rate (BMR) Program is codified in SMMC Section 27.16.050. The City’s BMR Program Guidelines 
are adopted via Resolution by the City Council. The Resolution (Attachment 3) revises the BMR Program Guidelines to 
include alternative compliance options to providing onsite affordable dwelling units in housing development projects.
DISCUSSION: 
Zoning Code Amendments
The Ordinance to implement the Zoning Code amendments is provided as Attachment 1. To provide context for the 
proposed amendments, Attachment 2 provides the text with strikeouts and underlines to show what is proposed to be 
added or deleted from the existing Code. 
Streamline the Development Review Process
The Ordinance proposes to: 1) modify and add several sections of the Zoning Code to reduce the development review 
timeline for housing projects by streamlining the development review process, 2) align City requirements with SB 330 
(Housing Crisis Act of 2019), and 3) add certainty in the development application process in support of Housing Element 
Policy H1.6. 
Existing state law (Government Code Section 65943) pursuant to the Permit Streamlining Act, and as modified by the 
Housing Crisis Act, requires the City to determine in writing whether a development (planning) application is considered 
‘complete’ based on a list of required materials published by the City. If the City determines the planning application is 
incomplete, state law requires the City provide an appeals process and a timeline to complete the appeals process.  The 
Ordinance proposes to insert subsection (b) within Section 27.08.035 to establish an appeals process subject to the review 
and final determination of the Planning Commission within a designated timeline, in conformance with state law.
For planning application approvals and approval extensions, SMMC Section 27.08.085 specifies that the approval of a 
planning application shall expire two years from the approval date, except that when a completed building permit 
application is filed before the planning approval expiration date and a building permit is issued within six months after the 
two-year expiration date. In total, approvals expire 2.5 years from the approval date unless a building permit has been 
issued.  Subsection (b) of Section 27.08.087, Planning Approval Extension, currently allows the Zoning Administrator to 
extend the planning application approval once up to two years under certain circumstances and findings. 
The Ordinance would amend this code section to allow the Zoning Administrator to approve up to two extensions, each for 
up to two years. Given the current development climate and the challenges getting a project ready for construction after 
the project entitlement, including preparing the site for development, securing financing, and coordinating with public 
utilities, there is sometimes a need for developers to be able to obtain additional time that exceeds the current timeline 
allowed in the Zoning Code. Allowing the potential for one additional two-year extension (for a total of up to four years, if 
justified) provides greater certainty for developers that their initial investment in obtaining entitlements for housing 
development projects will not be lost. This will allow developers to complete the construction of the project as approved, 
which is also in the City’s interest to satisfy the housing production targets in the Housing Element. The overarching 
objective is to continue to support projects starting construction as expeditiously as possible after approval, while also 
allowing for reasonable extensions, as needed.
An additional measure to streamline the development review process is aligning the approval authority of development 
projects based on building height as provided for in General Plan 2040. Currently, SMMC Section 27.04.030(c) requires City 
Council approval of all development projects over 55 feet in height (five stories). This provision is outdated by the adoption 
of new land use designations in General Plan 2040 and subsequent voter adoption of Measure T, which allows for building 
heights to exceed the limits in General Plan 2030 and under Measure Y. Staff recommends modifying the language in 
682 of 1111

--- page 683 ---
Section 27.04.030(c) to require City Council Site Plan and Architectural Review approval when the development project 
exceeds the building height limit specified in General Plan 2040, which depends on the location of the project and the 
height limit of the applicable land use designation. In addition, Section 27.06.050(d) requires Council approval for 
development projects over 55 feet and should be similarly updated. This specific subsection was inadvertently left out of 
the Planning Commission’s agenda packet, but the substance was presented to the commission in the context of Section 
27.04.030(c). 
Similarly, the Council recently increased the Zoning Administrator’s approval authority threshold from 25 units to 99 units, 
and aligning the building height threshold for Council approval with the thresholds provided in General Plan 2040 will 
streamline the development review and approval process by eliminating additional public meetings.  
Regardless of the review and approval authority, all city policies, ordinances, and standards apply equally to all multiple-
family housing development projects and are equally reviewed under the State’s Housing Accountability Act, which limits 
the City’s ability to deny residential projects that comply with applicable codes and objective standards.
Minimum Density in Mixed-Use Residential Development Projects
At an August 14, 2024 study session, the City Council discussed implementation of Housing Element Policy H1.9, which 
commits the City to establishing minimum densities for mixed-use residential development projects. As discussed at that 
study session, areas designated as Mixed-Use in General Plan 2040 provide the greatest flexibility for the type of projects 
that may be developed and generally allow for housing, commercial and/or office, or a combination of these uses.
Projects in mixed-use zones are not required to include residential uses, and projects are allowed to be developed as non-
residential projects, depending on property owner/developer interest, market conditions, and other factors. Over the last 
several years, the City has seen a growing trend of mixed-use development projects with a residential component. Most of 
these projects have included significant residential components that meet or exceed the zoned base density. However, in a 
few cases, projects have provided only a small residential component to qualify for concessions and waivers under State 
Density Bonus Law (SDBL) (Govt. 65915 et seq.) to benefit the non-residential component of the project.
At the August 14, 2024 Council study session, City Council members also generally agreed that the City should establish 
minimum densities for mixed-use housing developments and should establish higher minimum densities near Caltrain 
stations. Thus, staff is proposing to establish minimum densities in all mixed-use land use designations established in 
General Plan 2040, with slightly higher minimum densities for areas within ½ mile from the Caltrain stations.
In the proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1), staff recommends adding a new section in Chapter 27.02 to establish minimum 
densities in General Plan 2040 mixed-use land use designations. This is an interim measure until the Zoning Code is 
comprehensively updated with new zoning districts that will implement the newly established mixed-use land use 
designations in General Plan 2040 with each zoning district having its own minimum density.
The recommended densities vary based on the intensity of the mixed-use land use designation and whether the project 
area is within ½ mile of a Caltrain station. The recommended minimum densities generally follow the minimum densities 
already established in the General Plan, with slightly higher density thresholds within the ½ mile area of a Caltrain station 
(30 or 50 du/ac depending on the land use designation) and a slightly lower minimum density outside of that area for most 
land use designations (10, 15 or 30 du/ac). The minimum density for parcels designated as Mixed-Use High will be 50 du/ac 
regardless of where it is located. However, the City Council can consider a request to reduce the required minimum 
density where a project provides a greater percentage of affordable housing units than required by the Municipal Code or 
by providing community benefits.  
A more detailed analysis will occur with the City’s work on the comprehensive zoning code update and as part of the 
Transit Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy work. San Mateo was awarded a substantial grant to specifically study and 
establish minimum densities for areas within high quality transit areas. That project will study each transit zone at the 
parcel level and may result in changes to the minimum densities currently proposed.
683 of 1111

--- page 684 ---
Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program Updates
State law pertaining to inclusionary housing programs authorizes the legislative body of any city or county to adopt an 
inclusionary housing Ordinance that includes residential rental units affordable to lower- and moderate-income 
households (Govt. Code 65850 (g)). Among other things, this statute specifies: 
•
Requirements for alternative means of compliance for inclusionary Ordinances;
•
Parameters for HCD review of inclusionary housing Ordinances, under limited circumstances, by requesting the 
submittal of an economic feasibility study to ensure the Ordinance does not unduly constrain the production of 
housing;
•
Criteria for HCD to review economic feasibility studies.
Policy H.1.3 is one of many actions in the Housing Element intended to increase affordable housing production by 
providing greater flexibility to developers. Many jurisdictions allow for various alternative compliance options to the 
baseline inclusionary requirement in their ordinances and accompanying administrative guidelines. The level of detail 
provided on how developers can meet the jurisdiction’s inclusionary standards varies significantly, however, and some 
alternative compliance options come with conditions that may act as a disincentive.
The City’s current BMR Guidelines require 15 percent of total units (base density) in a housing development of 11 or more 
units to be provided as affordable to lower-income or moderate-income households, depending on whether the 
development is rental or for-sale. The BMR Guidelines allow for an offsite alternative compliance option, but it is limited to 
cases in which building the required affordable units on-site is infeasible. An applicant is required to demonstrate 
infeasibility by providing an economic analysis comparing the construction of units onsite versus offsite. The BMR 
Guidelines also do not provide any further guidance as to how the offsite construction of units should be evaluated and 
approved. 
As noted above, Govt. Code 65850(g) requires jurisdictions to provide alternative methods of compliance to meet their 
inclusionary requirements. Staff reviewed the inclusionary policies of several other jurisdictions and found that a variety of 
alternative options are used. For an overview of other jurisdictions’ policies, please refer to Attachment 5. Some common 
alternative compliance options include the following:
 
•
In-lieu fees would allow a developer in certain situations to pay a fee, established through a financial feasibility 
study, instead of building the required affordable units on-site. Typically, fees are allowed on smaller 
developments (where the inclusionary requirement would only produce few units, or for fractional units); the 
City’s BMR Guidelines allow this for developments of six to 10 units. Setting in-lieu fees requires an extensive 
analysis of the housing market, the cost to develop a variety of unit types, and establishing an affordability gap 
between what lower-income households can pay for housing and the market rate for various units based on size 
and location. In addition, the imposition of the fee, while adding to the City’s affordable housing funds, does not 
immediately result in new units, leading to delays in the production of new units. 
 
•
Land dedication would allow a developer to dedicate land for an affordable housing development. At a minimum, 
this requires the developer to demonstrate that what can be built on that land equals or exceeds the number of 
units required to meet the inclusionary requirement. There are typically several standards that the proposed site 
must meet related to site control (of the developer or development partner), environmental conditions, and 
zoning, in addition to other requirements such as ability to deliver the units concurrently with the market-rate or 
commercial project, accessibility to transit or other amenities, affirmatively furthering fair housing, or 
competitiveness for tax credits.
•
Off-site construction would allow a developer to construct the required affordable units in different locations than 
the project site. As with land dedication, the developer must demonstrate that the site is suitable to meet or 
exceed the inclusionary requirement; that it is controlled by the developer (or other developer it is assigned to); 
and, in some jurisdictions, that it can meet other requirements related to the site location, such as accessibility to 
transit or other amenities or competitiveness for tax credits. For example, Santa Rosa has a location requirement 
that requires the offsite location to be in the same “quadrant” of the City as the main development, and it cannot 
684 of 1111

--- page 685 ---
be near another lower-income development. 
•
Acquisition and rehabilitation would allow a developer to meet its inclusionary obligation by acquiring housing 
occupied by lower-income households with a commitment to rehabilitating and deed-restricting the units. This 
option has the potential to work well in communities where there are a significant number of apartment buildings 
in need of rehabilitation; however, there must be a method for demonstrating that the value of the alternative 
meets or exceeds the baseline inclusionary requirement. For example, preserving 10 naturally affordable market-
rate rental units must be shown to meet or exceed the value of meeting the City’s inclusionary requirement (15 
percent lower- income rental units). The City would need to develop an analysis to determine this equivalency. In 
addition, such projects can be difficult to finance and can pose challenges related to income verification, 
relocation, and other issues associated with preservation.
•
Developer-proposed alternatives would allow a developer to propose their own alternative means of compliance. 
In some cases, a city does not have any specific alternatives to on-site development but instead reviews each 
proposal on a case-by-case basis using certain prescribed standards. The developer often proposes one of the 
other methods illustrated above. 
 
In preparation for a comprehensive BMR program revision in 2026, staff will be researching all of these options. However, 
at this time, staff recommends implementing two alternatives to on-site construction to meet State Law requirements and 
to yield as many affordable units as possible within an expedited timeframe: 
1.
Off-site development of affordable units
2.
An option that allows developers to propose an alternative
Staff found that both off-site and developer-proposed alternatives are used in several jurisdictions, including Redwood 
City, East Palo Alto, Sunnyvale, and Hayward. Use of these alternative compliance options requires City Council approval in 
most cases in the above-mentioned jurisdictions. In addition to providing the alternatives, most jurisdictions developed 
findings that must be made to approve the use of alternative compliance options. The City’s Affordable Housing Ordinance 
(SMMC Section 27.16.050) would be amended to incorporate these additional compliance options (see Ordinance in 
Attachment 1). The City’s BMR Guidelines, adopted via City Council Resolution, contain details about program compliance. 
The Resolution with the updates to the BMR Guidelines that reflect these two additions is included in Attachment 3, with 
the text in track changes in Attachment 4.
Planning Commission Recommendation
The Planning Commission held a public hearing to review the proposed ordinance and resolution at their May 13, 2025 
meeting and recommended that Council approve the Ordinance amending the Zoning Code to address affordable housing 
compliance options, planning application procedures, and minimum densities for residential mixed-use development 
projects; and approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program to implement various 
policies and programs established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle). The Planning 
Commission also discussed and recommended that the Council consider alternative criteria to the ‘dwelling units per acre’ 
requirement for minimum densities for mixed-use residential projects. One alternative that they recommended staff 
further evaluate was a metric that required a minimum dwelling unit per square footage of commercial/office floor area 
ratio for mixed-use residential development projects. For example, setting a minimum requirement of one dwelling unit 
per 800 square feet of commercial floor area up to one dwelling per 300 square feet of commercial space for new mixed-
use projects. A requirement of this type would require further staff analysis, as well as economic analysis, to ensure that it 
is a reasonable and feasible requirement to set for new development if there is Council interest in pursuing this type of 
development standard. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Zoning Code Amendments to implement the Housing Element and General Plan are fully funded in the Community 
Development Department’s annual operating budget, utilizing the Advanced Planning Fund (Fund 225), and does not 
impact the City’s General Fund.
685 of 1111

--- page 686 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION: 
The Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for General Plan 2040 analyzed new residential development of up to 19,764 new 
housing units and growth around the City through 2040. On March 18, 2024, the City Council certified the EIR.  
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to 
modify housing development provisions and development standards (“Project”) is exempt from further environmental 
review because the Project, which generally allows for more housing types to be permitted uses in specific zoning districts 
and remove regulatory barriers from the zoning code, is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use 
designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was certified. There are no specific proposed changes 
to residential development densities, and it is consistent with the development densities established by General Plan 2040.  
The Project is also consistent with the implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant 
to certain mandates in state law. 
Applying Section 15183, there are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project; there are no project specific 
impacts that the General Plan EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially significant off-site and 
cumulative impacts that the EIR failed to evaluate; there is no substantial new information which results in more severe 
impacts than anticipated by the EIR; and projects will be required to comply with mitigation measures contained in the EIR.  
Furthermore, any future development of sites where these code amendments would apply would be evaluated as a 
potential “Project” under CEQA and if necessary, be further assessed for their potential environmental impacts prior to 
City entitlement.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met, including the publishing of a public notice in a newspaper of general 
circulation at least 10 days in advance of the public meeting.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 3 – Zoning Code Amendments (Track Changes)
Att 4 – Below Market Rate Program Revisions (Track Changes)
Att 5 – Overview of Inclusionary Programs in Other Jurisdictions
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7215
Rachel Horst, Housing Manager
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
686 of 1111

--- page 687 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE
Amending Several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to Implement the 2023-2031 
San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle)
WHEREAS, the State Housing Element Law (Government Code Section 65580 et seq.) requires that the 
City Council adopt a Housing Element for the 2023-2031 period to accommodate the City of San Mateo (“City”) 
regional housing need allocation (RHNA) of 7,015 housing units; and 
WHEREAS, on May 20, 2024, the City Council adopted a resolution to adopt the revised Housing Element 
of the General Plan for the period of 2023-2031 (Housing Element); and
WHEREAS, under Housing Element Goal 1 – Production and the Policies H1.3, H1.6, and H1.9, the City 
commits to reviewing and amending the City’s Zoning Code to update the City’s Inclusionary Housing 
requirements to allow for alternative compliance options to increase affordable housing production, update 
standards to support housing production, and create minimum residential densities for mixed-use projects; and
WHEREAS, the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo General Plan 2040 analyzed new 
residential development of up to 19,764 new housing units and growth around the City through 2040; and 
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2024, at a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council certified the EIR for the 
San Mateo General Plan 2040, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, together with 
related State implementation guidelines promulgated thereunder (CEQA); and
WHEREAS, on May 13, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received all 
written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed ordinance to 
amend several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to Implement the 2023-2031 San 
Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle); and
WHEREAS, on ____________, 2025, at a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council adopted an 
ordinance to adopt the amendments to several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
Implement the 2023-2031 San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle).  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings. At a duly noticed public hearing on _____________________, 2025, the City 
Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and considered the accompanying staff report and attachments 
thereto, the exemption from environmental review, together with comments received during the public review 
process, and hereby finds and determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General 
Plan in that it supports the development of housing and achieves the General Plan’s stated goals and policies.
Section 2. Section 27.02.230 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.02 as follows:
687 of 1111

--- page 688 ---
27.02.230 RESIDENTIAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
(a) Within a 1/2 mile radius of a Caltrain Station as shown on the General Plan Land Use Map, a mixed-
use development project with a residential component that includes five or more residential units shall comply 
with the following minimum residential densities if the development project is within one of the following 
General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one General Plan Land Use 
Designations, the lowest density requirement applies.
(1) Mixed-Use Low and Mixed-Use Medium I – 30 dwelling units per acre
(2) Mixed-Use Medium II and Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre
(b) A mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes five or more residential 
units outside of a TOD area are required to comply with minimum residential densities when the development 
project is within one of the following General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than 
one General Plan Land Use Designations, the lowest density requirement applies.
(1) Mixed-Use Low – 10 dwelling units per acre
(2) Mixed-Use Medium I – 15 dwelling units per acre
(3) Mixed-Use Medium II – 30 dwelling units per acre
(4) Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre
(c) The City Council may consider a request to reduce the required minimum residential density in a 
mixed-use development project with a residential component for a project that provides a greater percentage of 
affordable housing units than required by Section 27.16.050 Affordable Housing or by providing public 
community benefits. 
Section 3. Section 27.04.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.130 SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR).
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, require a site 
plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval body has approved a 
planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new parking lot, fence over seven (7) 
feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an existing building or parking lot; historic 
buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as specified in Chapter 27.66. Single family and accessory 
buildings that conform to the standards contained in Chapter 27.18, or minor facade modifications as defined in 
Section 27.04.313, and which conform with Section 27.08.031, are exempt from this requirement, unless they 
are specifically designated by this section as requiring review. In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, 
Development Review Board, and Planning Commission shall be guided by the standards adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council. The application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds 
all of the following to exist:
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood;
688 of 1111

--- page 689 ---
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City;
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare;
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning ordinance, 
building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site;
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security.
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in accordance 
with the approved drawings.
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings that exceed the height 
limit in the General Plan.
Section 3. Subsection (d) of Section 27.06.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(d) Site Plan and Architectural Review for buildings that exceed the height limit in the General Plan;
Section 4. Section 27.08.035 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.035 COMPLETION OF PLANNING APPLICATION.
(a) A planning application is determined to be complete when all documents, reports, data, maps, fees, 
and other information prescribed in Section 27.08.010 are submitted and are determined to be adequate to 
allow the approval body to determine if the required findings can be made. 
(b) For any application determined to be incomplete, an applicant may appeal the incompleteness 
determination to the Planning Commission within 14 days of the date of the incomplete letter. Any appeal shall 
be submitted in writing, and be accompanied by payment of the filing fee. Pursuant to California Government 
Code Section 65943, the Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the appeal not later 
than 60 calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s written appeal. The appeal process shall toll any timing 
requirements to resubmit incomplete application materials. 
(c) The Zoning Administrator may close out an application, if information is requested in writing by the 
Zoning Administrator, and the information has not been submitted to the Zoning Administrator or the action has 
not occurred within 120 days. Applications which are closed out are considered to be withdrawn and any 
unspent fees from the application will be refunded. An applicant for a housing development project, as defined 
in California Government Code Section 65905.5(b)(3) shall follow timelines and provisions outlined in California 
Government Code Section 65941.1 to maintain preliminary application eligibility.
689 of 1111

--- page 690 ---
(d) The Zoning Administrator's action may be appealed to the Planning Commission within ten (10) days 
of the Zoning Administrator's action closing out an application, or of determining that a new planning 
application is required.
Section 6. Section 27.08.085 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.085 PLANNING APPROVAL EXPIRATION.
Final approval of a planning application shall expire two years from the date of approval, with the 
following exceptions:
(a) A completed building permit application is filed before the expiration date and a building permit is 
issued prior to or within six months after the two year expiration date.
(b) The property within two years has been used in conformance with the final order.
(c) Approvals granted to the City of San Mateo shall be in force and effect for such time period as funds 
are budgeted in whole or in part for the project by the City or Agency.
(d) Projects for which an extension has been obtained in accordance with Section 27.08.087 below.
Section 7. Section 27.08.087 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION.
The following extensions to planning approvals are available:
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that extension of a 
planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator shall approve an extension if they find that the 
project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general plan regulations and conditions.
(b) City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve up to two extensions of a planning approval, 
each for up to two years, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant must submit the 
application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the application fee and provide the 
reason(s) for the extension request.
(2) Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must find all of the 
following:
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; and
690 of 1111

--- page 691 ---
(C) The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an increase in severity of 
previously identified environmental impacts.
691 of 1111

--- page 692 ---
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the neighborhood 
by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be provided to the Planning 
Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision.
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning Commission within 
ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with the Planning Division and payment 
of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date of a planning approval is tolled until a final action 
is taken. The provisions of Municipal Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision 
maps.
Section 5. Section 27.16.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.16.050 AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
To implement the affordable housing goals and policies in the General Plan, the City Council adopted the 
Below Market Rate (BMR) Program. Specific requirements for the development of affordable units under the 
BMR Program, including the alternative compliance option of providing offsite affordable units and other 
proposed alternatives, are regulated by resolution adopted by the City Council.
Section 6. Environmental Determination In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to streamline the processing of development applications,  
and establish minimum densities for mixed-use housing development projects is exempt from further 
environmental review because the Project is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use 
designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was certified by the City Council on March 
18, 2024.  Also, there are no specific proposed changes to maximum residential development densities and is 
consistent with the development density established by the General Plan.  The Project is also consistent with the 
implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant to certain mandates in 
state law.  There are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project or the sites; there are no project 
specific impacts that the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially 
significant off-site and cumulative impacts that the general plan EIR failed to evaluate; and there is no 
substantial new information which results in more severe impacts than anticipated by the general plan EIR.
Section 7. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 8. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 9. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
692 of 1111

--- page 693 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
REVISING THE CITY’S BELOW MARKET-RATE HOUSING PROGRAM TO ALLOW FOR ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE 
OPTIONS TO ONSITE CONSTRUCTION OF AFFORDABLE UNITS
WHEREAS, the current Below Market-Rate (BMR) Program requires that residential projects consisting of 11 
units provide 15 percent of the number of units affordable to lower-income households (for rental) and 15 percent of 
the number of units affordable to moderate-income households (for for-sale) onsite; and
WHEREAS, the BMR Program Guidelines, adopted and amended from time to time via City Council Resolution, 
allow for certain alternatives to the baseline requirement, including offsite construction of affordable units, but only if 
the applicant demonstrates via an economic analysis that onsite construction is infeasible; and
WHEREAS, the City adopted its 2023-2031 Housing Element on May 20, 2024, and it was subsequently certified 
by the California Department of Housing and Community Development Department on July 23, 2024; and
WHEREAS, Policy H.1.3 in the Housing Element requires the City to revise the BMR Program to allow for 
alternative compliance options for required onsite affordable dwelling units in housing development projects; and
WHEREAS, through improvements to its BMR Program, the City wishes to provide greater flexibility to 
developers to incentivize the production of affordable units; and 
WHEREAS, on May 13, 2025, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, received all written 
and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the proposed resolution to update the BMR 
Program Guidelines to Implement the 2023-2031 San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle).
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that: 
1.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, updating the 
provisions of the BMR Program Guidelines to allow for the alternative compliance options of offsite construction 
of affordable units or a developer-proposed alternative to allow for alternatives in complying with the 
inclusionary housing requirements (“Project”) is exempt from further environmental review because the Project 
is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use designations adopted as part of General Plan 
2040 for which an EIR was certified by the City Council on March 18, 2024.  The Project is also consistent with 
the implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant to certain mandates in 
state law.  There are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project or the sites; there are no project 
specific impacts that the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially 
significant off-site and cumulative impacts that the general plan EIR failed to evaluate; and there is no 
substantial new information which results in more severe impacts than anticipated by the general plan EIR.
2.
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of 
this Resolution amending the City’s BMR Program is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with 
certainty that this action will not have a significant impact on the environment. 
3.
The amendments to the BMR Program Guidelines, as shown in Exhibit A, to allow for the alternative compliance 
options of offsite construction of affordable units or a developer-proposed alternative, are approved.
693 of 1111

--- page 694 ---
27.04.030 SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR). 
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, 
require a site plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval 
body has approved a planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new 
parking lot, fence over seven (7) feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an 
existing building or parking lot; historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as 
specified in Chapter 27.66. Single family and accessory buildings that conform to the standards 
contained in Chapter 27.18, or minor facade modifications as defined in Section 27.04.313, and 
which conform with Section 27.08.031, are exempt from this requirement, unless they are 
specifically designated by this section as requiring review. In making its review, the Zoning 
Administrator, Development Review Board, and Planning Commission shall be guided by the 
standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council. The application shall be 
approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood; 
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City; 
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; 
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved drawings. 
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding  
fifty-five (55) feet that exceed the height limit in the General Plan. in height or where required by 
express General Plan provisions. 
 
27.06.050 COUNCIL CONSIDERATION AND DETERMINATION. 
The Council shall take final action on: 
(a) Appeals from the decisions of the Planning Commission; 
(b) Reclassifications; 
(c) Planned Developments; 
694 of 1111

--- page 695 ---
(d) Site Plan and Architectural Review for buildings exceeding 55 feet in height;that exceed 
the height limit in the General Plan 
(e) General Plan Amendments; 
(f) Historic Building Survey Amendment; 
(g) Historic Building Demolition Permit; 
(h) Every project which includes as part of the site any parcel of land which is in whole or in 
part subject to the tidelands trust provisions of State law; 
(i) Projects that are fully or partially funded by the City; 
(j) Downtown Economic Development Permit; and 
(k) The initiation and enaction of ordinances, including interim zoning 
ordinances/moratoria, without having to file a planning application. 
 
27.08.085 PLANNING APPROVAL EXPIRATION. 
Final approval of a planning application shall expire two years from the date of approval, with the 
following exceptions: 
(a) A completed building permit application is filed before the expiration date and a building 
permit is issued prior to or within six months after the two year expiration date. 
(b) The property within two years has been used in conformance with the final order. 
(c) Approvals granted to the City of San Mateo or the Redevelopment Agency of San Mateo 
shall be in force and effect for such time period as funds are budgeted in whole or in part for the 
project by the City or Agency. 
(d) Projects with associated subdivision maps that remain in effect or have been extended 
by mandate of the state Subdivision Map Act or San Mateo Municipal Code section 
26.48.135, 26.48.140, or 26.56.087. Those planning approvals remain effective for the term of the 
subdivision map approval, if required by State law. 
(e)(d) Projects for which an extension has been obtained in accordance with Section 
27.08.087 below. 
 
27.08.087 PLANNING APPROVAL EXTENSION. 
The following extensions to planning approvals are available: 
(a) Extensions required by state or federal law. Where state or federal law requires that 
extension of a planning approval be considered, the Zoning Administrator shall approve an 
extension if they find that the project complies with all applicable zoning, planning, and general 
plan regulations and conditions. 
695 of 1111

--- page 696 ---
(b) City extensions. The Zoning Administrator may approve one up to two extensions of a 
planning approval, each for up to two years, subject to the following provisions: 
(1) Application required. To apply for a planning approval extension, an applicant 
must submit the application prior to the expiration date of the planning approval, pay the 
application fee and provide the reason(s) for the extension request. 
(2) Findings required. To approve a time extension, the Zoning Administrator must 
find all of the following: 
(A) The approved project is still consistent with the City's General Plan; and 
(B) The approved project is still consistent with the City's Zoning Ordinance; 
and 
(C) The extension will not result in any new environmental impacts or an 
increase in severity of previously identified environmental impacts. 
(c) Notice of Zoning Administrator Decision on Extension. Notice will be provided to the 
neighborhood by the same process followed for the original project approval. Notice will also be 
provided to the Planning Commission and City Council within ten days of the Zoning 
Administrator's decision. 
(d) Appeals. The decision of the Zoning Administrator is appealable to the Planning 
Commission within ten days of the Zoning Administrator's decision by filing a written appeal with 
the Planning Division and payment of applicable fees. When an appeal is filed, the expiration date 
of a planning approval is tolled until a final action is taken. The provisions of Municipal 
Code Chapter 26.48 govern for all projects with associated subdivision maps. 
 
27.08.035 COMPLETION OF PLANNING APPLICATION. 
(a) A planning application is determined to be complete when all documents, reports, data, 
maps, fees, and other information prescribed in Section 27.08.010 are submitted and are 
determined to be adequate to allow the approval body to determine if the required findings can be 
made.  
(a)(b) For any application determined to be incomplete, an applicant may appeal the 
incompleteness determination to the Community Development Director Planning Commission 
within 14 days of the date of the incomplete letter.. Any appeal shall be submitted in writing, and be 
accompanied by payment of the filing fee. Pursuant to California Government Code Section 65943, 
the Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the appeal not later than 60 
calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s written appeal. The appeal process shall toll any 
timing requirements to resubmit incomplete application materials.  
(b) The Zoning Administrator may require a new planning application for a project initially 
determined to be complete if one or more of the following occurs: 
696 of 1111

--- page 697 ---
(1) The project is significantly revised; 
(2) New information or material germane to the project is brought to light, or 
becomes available, or is required to assess a change, or revision in the proposed project 
and the information affects the ability of the approval body to make the required findings. 
(3) City policies, or standards are adopted which require substantial revisions in the 
project. 
(c) If the Zoning Administrator finds that a new planning application is required, and no 
public hearing has been held on the project, then the application shall be considered withdrawn 
without prejudice. If a public hearing has been held, the approval body may accept the withdrawal 
with or without prejudice. Any unspent fees from the original application shall be applied to any 
new application or refunded, at the applicant's request. 
(d)(c) The Zoning Administrator may close out an application, if information is requested in 
writing by the Zoning Administrator, and the information has not been submitted to the Zoning 
Administrator or the action has not occurred within 120 days. ApplicationsFiles which are closed 
out are considered to be actions without prejudicewithdrawn and any unspent fees from the 
application will be refunded. , thereby enabling an immediate re-application for a project of the 
same, or similar nature by any applicant. The re-application shall be subject to all current fees and 
codes. An applicant for a housing development project, as defined in California Government Code 
Section 65905.5(b)(3) shall follow timelines and provisions outlined in Housing development 
applications subject to California Government Code Section 65941.1 to maintain preliminary 
application eligibility.65943##### shall follow timelines outlined in that section to maintain 
eligibility.  
(e)(d) The Zoning Administrator's action may be appealed to the Planning Commission 
within ten (10) days of the Zoning Administrator's action closing out an application, or of 
determining that a new planning application is required. 
 
27.16.050 AFFORDABLE HOUSING. 
To implement the affordable housing goals and policies in the General Plan, the City 
Council adopted the Below Market Rate (BMR) Program. Specific requirements for the development 
of affordable units under the BMR Program, including the alternative compliance option of 
providing offsite affordable units and other proposed alternatives,  are regulated by resolution 
adopted by the City Council.  
 
697 of 1111

--- page 698 ---
The Section below is a new section to be added to the Zoning Code in Chapter 27.02. 
27.02.230 RESIDENTIAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS. 
 
a. Within a 1/2 mile radius of a Caltrain Station as shown on the General Plan Land Use 
Map, a mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes 
five or more residential units shall comply with the following minimum residential 
densities if the development project is within one of the following General Plan Land 
Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one General Plan Land Use 
Designations, the lowest density requirement applies. 
 
i. Mixed-Use Low and Mixed-Use Medium I – 30 dwelling units per acre 
ii. Mixed-Use Medum II and Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre 
 
b. A mixed-use development project with a residential component that includes five or 
more residential units outside of a TOD area are required to comply with minimum 
residential densities when the development project is within one of the following 
General Plan Land Use Designations. If the project area is within more than one 
General Plan Land Use Designations, the lowest density requirement applies. 
 
i. Mixed-Use Low – 10 dwelling units per acre 
ii. Mixed-Use Medium I – 15 dwelling units per acre 
iii. Mixed-Use Medum II – 30 dwelling units per acre 
iv. Mixed-Use High – 50 dwelling units per acre 
 
c. The City Council may consider a request to reduce the required minimum 
residential density in a mixed-use development project with a residential 
component for a project that provides a greater percentage of affordable housing 
units than required by Section 27.16.050 Affordable Housing or by providing public 
community benefits.  
 
 
 
 
698 of 1111

--- page 699 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BELOW MARKET RATE (INCLUSIONARY) PROGRAM
I.
INTENT
It is the intent of this resolution to establish requirements for the designation of housing units for 
moderate, lower, and very low income households in development projects containing residential 
dwelling units.
II.
DEFINITIONS
Whenever the following terms are used in this resolution, they shall have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affordable Housing” means affordable ownership housing or affordable rental housing. 
Affordable ownership housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not 
exceed one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the area median income (low or moderate 
income households).
Affordable rental housing is housing affordable to households whose incomes do not exceed 
eighty percent (80%) of the area median income (very low or lower-income households).
(b)
“Applicant” means any person, firm, partnership, association, or any other entity who 
submits the planning application and/or building permit for the construction of new 
dwelling units.
(c)
“Area Median Income” means the median household income for San Mateo County as 
published annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development
(d)
“Below Market Rate (BMR) Unit” means an affordable housing unit.
(e)
“Density Bonus” means entitlement to build additional residential units above the maximum 
number of units permitted pursuant to the existing General Plan, applicable specific plan 
and/or zoning designation.
(f)
“Lower Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in Health 
and Safety Code section 50079 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by the 
California Department of Housing and Community Development, as adjusted for household 
size.
(g)
“Market Rate Unit” means a dwelling unit where the rental rate or sales price is not restricted by 
this resolution.
699 of 1111

--- page 700 ---
(h)
“Moderate Income” means households means households whose income does not exceed that 
as defined in Health and Safety Code section 50093 for the County of San Mateo as published 
annually by the California Department of Housing and Community Development.
(i)
“Occupancy Standards” means the minimum household size upon which qualification 
and pricing for BMR units is based.
(j)
“Ownership Units” means housing units offered for sale including, but not limited to, 
single family homes, condominiums, other common interest developments and mutual 
housing associations.
(k)
“Rental Units” means housing units offered for lease or rent.
(l)
“Very-low Income” means households whose income does not exceed that as defined in 
Health and Safety Code section 50105 for the County of San Mateo as published annually by 
the California Department of Housing and Community Development
III.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS – GENERAL
(a)
Applicability. The requirements of this program shall apply to all development projects that 
include five (5) or more residential units or parcels which involve:
i.
New construction of rental or ownership housing units, including mixed use 
developments and addition of units to existing projects, or
ii.
Subdivision of property for single family or duplex housing development, or
iii.
Conversion of rental apartments to condominium or other common interest 
ownership under Chapter 26.65 of the Municipal Code.
iv.
Conversion of nonresidential use to residential units.
(b)
Number of BMR Units Required. For residential development projects of eleven (11) or 
more units, the number of BMR units must be constructed as follows:
i.
Ownership Units
a.
Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by and 
shall be affordable to Moderate Income households.
ii.
Rental Units
a. Fifteen percent (15%) of the proposed units shall be set aside for occupancy by 
and shall be affordable to Lower Income households.
In determining the number of BMR units required, any decimal fraction .5 or above shall be 
rounded up to the nearest whole number.
Fees in-lieu of constructing required BMR units shall not be allowed except for the provisions 
for fractional units defined below.
700 of 1111

--- page 701 ---
(c)
Fractional Unit Fees. In the following situations a fractional fee will be collected 
instead of construction of a BMR unit:
i.
For residential development projects consisting of 5-10 units or parcels, or
ii.
When the calculation of the BMR units in development projects of 11 or more units or 
parcels results in a fractional unit less than .5.
In either scenario, applicant has the option to provide an additional BMR unit instead of the fee.
The fractional fee will be established based on the typical cost to develop a BMR unit and will 
be adopted by resolution by the City Council on an annual basis. The fee will be collected at the 
time the building permit is issued and shall be deposited into the City Housing fund.
(d)
Occupancy Standards. Priority for occupancy shall be for households meeting the following 
size requirements.
1 bedroom units
-
no restriction
2 bedroom units
-
Minimum two person occupancy
3 bedroom units
-
Minimum three person occupancy Other 
households for such units will be on a lower priority.
IV.
OWNERSHIP UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Price of Units. The maximum sales price of BMR units shall be limited to a price that is 
affordable to a household earning between 100-110% of area median income, adjusted for 
household size, with payments not to exceed between 30-35 percent of the gross monthly 
income, less insurance and property taxes and homeowners association dues. The City Council 
at least once per year shall adopt by resolution maximum allowable sales prices, adjusted by 
unit size, within the ranges established above and based on prevailing interest rates and prior 
experience in maintaining an adequate sized list of qualifying buyers. The sales prices for BMR 
units shall be established at the time of building permit issuance for each project.
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the costs of care 
shall be separate from housing costs, and shall not be included in the pricing formula.
(b)
Sales Restrictions. BMR units shall be sold or resold only to eligible moderate or lower-income 
households. The City, or its designees, shall determine the eligibility of such households. A 
deed restriction, covenant, and/or other instrument enforceable by the City, limiting the resale of 
such units to eligible households shall be recorded in the chain of title of all BMR units. The 
duration of such resale restrictions shall be 45 years, and shall be reapplied and recorded upon 
each resale of the unit.
701 of 1111

--- page 702 ---
The deed restriction shall provide that the City have the first right of refusal to purchase the unit. 
The City’s option to purchase may be assigned to a qualifying moderate or lower income 
household.
The City or its designee shall be responsible for selection and qualification of buyers in accord 
with its marketing polices regulating affordable housing. The seller shall pay costs associated 
with buyer selection, qualification and unit sales.
(c)
Unit Appreciation. Each unit offered for resale will be subject to resale restrictions in which 
the effective sales price (sales price less City subsidy) will be computed to equal the average 
increase in moderate income for the San Francisco MSA during the period of ownership.
(d)
Occupancy Restrictions. Units shall only be occupied by their owners. Renting, leasing, 
subleasing or subletting shall not be permitted for more than two months in any year. Violation 
of these occupancy restrictions will be grounds for termination of the occupancy.
V.
RENTAL UNIT AFFORDABLE HOUSING STANDARDS
(a)
Rental Rates.
The monthly rent to be charged for a BMR unit in a rental project shall not 
exceed 30% percent of the gross monthly income for households earning between 50-70 
percent or less of area median income, adjusted for household size. The City Council shall at 
least once per year adopt by resolution maximum allowable rental rates, adjusted by unit size, 
within the ranges established above and based on prior experience in maintaining a list of 
qualifying renters. In no event shall the annual rent increase exceed 4% from the prior year. 
The surplus median income increase in a capped year can be carried over and combined in the 
following years, as long as the 4% cap per year is maintained.
For units which provide congregate care or personal assistance for residents, the cost of care 
shall be separate from housing costs and shall not be included in the rental formula.
(b)
Move-in Costs.
Total costs and security deposits to occupy a unit shall be limited to first 
and last month’s rent, plus a cleaning deposit not to exceed one month’s rent.
(c)
Rental Restriction.
Occupancy of BMR rental units and qualification of eligible lower-
income tenants shall be the responsibility of the project owner or an authorized agent of the 
owner. Annual leases shall be offered to tenants of BMR units. Income qualifications of the 
tenants shall be verified upon annual lease renewal. If a tenant’s income rises above the 90% 
area median income for a Lower Income Unit or above 60% area median income for a Very 
Low Income Unit, the unit shall become a market rate unit and the next comparable unit available 
will become a BMR unit, unless the tenant chooses to vacate the unit.
702 of 1111

--- page 703 ---
Each project owner shall submit an annual report to the City identifying for each BMR unit the 
monthly rent, vacancy information for the prior year, income and income verification for 
tenants, and other information as required by the City.
The rental restrictions shall be in force for the life of the building.
(d)
Change in Tenure from Existing BMR Rental Units to Ownership. In the event the owner of 
any development that contains BMR Rental Units chooses to offer those units for sale after the 
initial occupancy of the BMR units as rentals, a new BMR agreement shall be executed and 
recorded. The agreement shall describe the number, location and sales prices of the BMR units 
offered for sale. The BMR Ownership units shall be affordable to moderate income households 
in accordance with the BMR program provisions in place, unless the project utilized the State 
Density Bonus, in which case the sales prices shall be affordable to the household income levels 
identified in the original BMR agreement at the sales prices for those household income levels 
adopted by City Council resolution on an annual basis.
If the change in tenure is part of a condominium conversion, all provisions of Chapter 26.65 of 
the Municipal Code shall be followed.
If the change in tenure is not associated with a condominium conversion, the BMR Rental Unit 
tenants must be adequately noticed and offered relocation assistance as follows:
i.
Each of the BMR tenants shall receive written notification by registered mail from the 
property owner of the intention to sell at least one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to 
termination of tenancy. This notification shall include the information regarding relocation, 
right to purchase, and lease benefits available.
ii.
Each of the BMR tenants shall be given notice by the property owner of an exclusive right to 
contract for the purchase of his or her respective unit upon terms and conditions of the BMR 
program as it pertains to Ownership Units. This right shall run for a period of not less than 
ninety
(90) days from the date of the initial notification of termination of tenancy.
iii.
Relocation assistance shall be given to all BMR tenants who do not exercise their 
right to purchase as follows:
a. A relocation allowance equal to three month's rent at the tenant's rate in effect at the 
time the notice of termination of tenancy is filed shall be paid to the eligible tenant 
within twenty (20) days after the tenant notifies the owner of his intention to vacate 
the unit or the owner notifies the tenant to vacate the unit.
b. The applicant shall provide a list of active comparable rental units in San Mateo 
County at least once each month beginning from the initial notification of termination 
of tenancy.
703 of 1111

--- page 704 ---
c. In projects that consist of twenty-five (25) or more BMR Rental Units, the applicant 
shall provide a relocation specialist to assist displaced tenants in finding new 
housing.
VI.
SUBDIVISIONS
A subdivider of land for single family or duplex development resulting in eleven (11) or more parcels 
shall provide BMR units equivalent to at least fifteen percent (15%) of the density permitted on the 
subdivided lots.
VII.
UNIT SIZE, TYPE AND DESIGN
BMR units shall:
(a)
Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same as market 
rate units within the project, including landscaping;
(b)
Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City;
(c)
Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units;
(d)
Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units,
(e)
Generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units, or
They may be up to 10% smaller than market units if they meet the following minimum sizes:
Unit Type
Regular Units
Senior Units
studio units
450 square feet
405 square feet
one bedroom units
600 square feet
507 square feet
two bedroom units
900 square feet
602 square feet
three bedroom units
1100 square feet
950 square feet
(f)
Have access to all on-site amenities; and
(g)
In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase.
(h)
Interior unit amenities such as floor covering, appliance and other fixtures, shall be specified in 
the BMR agreement executed prior to issuance of building permit and may differ from market 
rate units, but must at a minimum be UL or AGA listed.
704 of 1111

--- page 705 ---
VIII.
ALTERNATIVES
An applicant may propose an alternate means of compliance with the BMR program subject to the 
following provisions:
(a)
Variation of the bedroom count of BMR Units. Based on Council adoption of community 
priorities, an applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in BMR units than a straight pro 
rata of the Market Rate Units as long as the total bedroom count is the same or more, and the 
total number of BMR units equal 10% or more of the project. For example, the City may accept 
fewer BMR units in exchange for those with more bedrooms, or conversely it may agree to more 
BMR units that have smaller bedroom counts. The Council will adopt its community priorities 
by resolution annually at the same time it adopts the BMR rental and sales prices.
(b)
Size of BMR units. In projects where the Market Rate Units all exceed 2000 square feet, the 
BMR units may be up to 20% smaller than the Market Rate Units.
(c)
Off Site Construction. Off-site construction shall be allowed only if the applicant 
demonstrates, and the City finds during the planning approval process, that on-site 
construction is infeasible. In order to substantiate infeasibility, the applicant must provide an 
economic analysis comparing the construction of units onsite and offsite. If allowed, off-site 
units shall be constructed within the City of San Mateo and shall be constructed and occupied 
prior to occupancy of the development project. In order to approve the Off-Site Construction 
alternative, the City Council must make the following findings:
i.
The number of affordable units provided by the Off-Site Construction alternative equals or 
exceeds that required under the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; and 
ii.
The level of affordability provided by the Off-Site Construction alternative is the same or 
lower as that required the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; and 
iii.
The alternative is consistent with the General Plan and Housing Element and the provisions of 
these Guidelines; and 
iv.
Financing or a viable financing plan, which may include public funding, is in place for the 
off-site BMR units;  and 
v.
The off-site location is suitable for the proposed BMR Units and furthers the goals of 
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing, consistent the Housing Element; and
vi.
The off-site BMR units will be available for occupancy prior to or concurrently with 
development of the main project. If the main development project is phased, the off-site BMR 
units comply with Section VII (g) of these Guidelines. 
(d)
Applicant-Proposed Alternative. An applicant may propose other ways to comply with the on-site 
BMR requirement in Section III of these Guidelines if City Council determines, based on substantial 
evidence provided by the applicant, that it will provide as many or more BMR units at the same or 
lower income levels, or will otherwise provide greater public benefit than that provided under the 
on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines. The proposed alternative compliance option 
must be identified in an Affordable Housing Plan that is submitted as part of the Planning 
Application. A Planning Application shall not be deemed complete until the Affordable Housing 
Plan is approved. The applicant shall bear all costs associated with demonstrating that the 
705 of 1111

--- page 706 ---
compliance option meets the BMR requirements. In order to approve the Applicant-Proposed 
Alternative, the City Council must make the following findings:
i.
The number of affordable units provided by the Applicant-Proposed Alternative equals or 
exceeds that required by the on-site requirement in Section III of these Guidelines; 
ii.
The level of affordability provided by each of the BMR units meets the affordability threshold or 
lower affordability threshold(s) as required under the on-site requirement in Section III of these 
Guidelines;
iii.
If the Applicant-Proposed Alternative does not meet these requirements in (i) and (ii), it will 
provide greater public benefit than that provided under the on-site requirement in Section III of 
these Guidelines; 
iv.
Financing or a viable financing plan, which may include public funding, is in place for the 
Applicant-Proposed Alternative; and
(c)v.
The Applicant-Proposed Alternative is consistent with the General Plan and Housing Element 
and the provisions of this Guidelines.
(d)(e) Agreement with City for Financing. If the City or Redevelopment Agency enters into a 
financing agreement with the applicant, the parties may agree to alter the requirements of 
Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above.
(e)(f)
Significant Number of Affordable Units. If an applicant exceeds the maximum percentage 
of affordable units set forth in the state density bonus law for low or very low income rental 
or ownership units or moderate income ownership units, the City will consider an applicant’s 
request to alter the requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in 
connection with its review of the planning application for the project and may reject or accept 
the request in its sole discretion.
(f)(g)
Specialized Services. If a project will include units for residents requiring specialized services 
(such as health care for senior residents), the City will consider an applicant’s request to alter the 
requirements of Section VII, subsections (a) through (g), above, in connection with its review of 
the planning application for the project and may reject or accept the request in its sole discretion.
706 of 1111

--- page 707 ---
IX ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Only households qualifying as very low, lower or moderate income households shall be eligible to 
occupy BMR units. Preference shall be given to persons residing or working within San Mateo. 
Eligibility shall be determined in conjunction with policies adopted by City Council resolution.
X.
ADMINISTRATION
(a)
Responsibilities. The City or its designee shall be responsible for administering ownership 
BMR units. The project owner shall be responsible for administering BMR rental units.
The City’s Community Development Director or a designee shall be responsible for 
administration of the BMR program, including, but not limited to, determinations regarding 
calculation of the number of BMR units required, pricing, design, review of feasibility analyses, 
qualification of tenants, and long- term program compliance. The City may prepare 
administrative guidelines to further clarify program requirements.
(b)
Application Process. At the time of filing a planning application for a development project 
subject to the BMR program, the applicant shall include the proposed number of BMR units, 
including their size and number of bedrooms.
(c)
BMR Agreement. Prior to the issuance of a building permit the applicant shall enter into a 
BMR Agreement with the City which will be recorded against the property and shall include the 
following:
1.
The number of BMR units and their location;
2.
The unit sizes and the number of bedrooms per dwelling unit;
3.
The affordability level and initial rent or sales price;
4.
The interior unit amenities which would differ from market-rate units, including, but 
not limited to, floor coverings, countertops, appliances, plumbing and electrical 
fixtures; and
5.
The schedule for production of BMR units in phased developments.
XI.
DENSITY BONUSES FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
(a)
Bonus for Affordable Units.
Provision of the BMR units entitle an applicant to request 
a density bonus in accordance with Government Code section 65915.
(b)
Additional Incentives. In addition to any density bonus, applicant may request additional 
incentive(s) or concession(s) in accordance with Government
707 of 1111

--- page 708 ---
Code section 65915 and San Mateo’s Density Bonus Ordinance at Section
27.16.060 of the Municipal Code.
The additional incentive(s) or concession(s) to be provided shall be determined by the City at the 
time of the application approval in accordance with Government Code section 65915 and the City’s 
Density Bonus Ordinance. The City will require information from the applicant to determine the 
necessary incentive or concession, or may hire a consultant to prepare an analysis at the expense of 
the applicant.
The following describes the density bonus amount and number of incentives that are allowed 
by providing the required affordable units in the BMR program.
Tenure
Percent 
Affordable
Income 
Target
Density 
Bonus
Allowed
Developer 
Incentives
Ownership
15%
Moderate
10%
1
Rental
15%
Lower
27.5%
1
Applicant may provide any combination of additional affordable units and/or deeper 
affordability which may be eligible for a higher density bonus and/or more incentives or 
concessions based on the provisions of State Density Bonus law and the City’s Density Bonus 
Ordinance as long as the City’s minimum affordability requirements are met. However, the City 
will not accept Very Low units in an ownership project unless a reserve is established that can be 
utilized by lower income owners to fully pay for future expenses related to increases in 
homeowners’ association dues or other assessments, such that the overall housing cost of 
homeownership is maintained at an affordable level.
(c)
BMR Program Applicable. The affordable units provided under the provisions of the Density 
Bonus Ordinance shall comply with all requirements of the BMR program.
Rev February 3, 2020
708 of 1111

--- page 709 ---
Jurisdiction
In-Lieu Fee
Land Dedication
Off-Site Units
Conversion of existing units to 
affordable
Clustering
Credits
Rental Units 
Preservation and Funding
Combination of Methods
Misc. Alternatives
Developer May Propose An 
Alternative 
East Palo Alto
Yes
Yes
Yes
Foster City
Yes
Yes
Yes
On-site clustering of BMR units
Fremont
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Preservation of Affordable Units 
at Risk of Loss
Hayward
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Lafayette
Yes
Yes
For Rent Alternatives to Fees or 
Sales
Millbrae
Yes, with restrictions
Yes
Yes
Mountain View
Yes
Yes
Yes
Newark
Yes (this is the default req't)
Yes
Palo Alto
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Affordable rental units in a 
residential ownership project or 
residential rental project
Mixed Use Projects
Redwood City
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
San Bruno
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Provision of Rental Units in place 
of For-Sale Units
Alternative Percentages and 
Income Levels of Affordable 
Units
Increase Total Number of 
Affordable housing Bedrooms
Yes
San Jose
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Partnership of Clustered Units
Credits and Transfers
Mixed Compliance
Yes
HUD Restricted Units
Yes
Santa Clara County
Yes
Yes
Yes
Santa Rosa
Yes
Yes
Yes
Credit for Additional Affordable 
Units
Preservation of at-risk housing
Impaction Determination
Yes- "Innovation Encouraged"
South San Francisco
Yes
Yes
Yes
Funding of Affordable Housing 
Project
Construction of ADUs
Yes
Sunnyvale
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes, with partnership
Yes
Gray box indicates that the jurisdication does not allow for, or does not mention, that the alternative is permitted. If the jurisdiction allows developer to propose an alternative, this alternative may be allowed.
Comparison of Alternative Compliance Methods: Select Bay Area Jurisdictions
709 of 1111

--- page 710 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
710 of 1111

--- page 711 ---
From:
Jeremy Levine
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Zachary Dahl; Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
Public Comment: Agenda Items 15 & 38, Comprehensive Zoning Update + Inclusionary Zoning Update
Date:
Monday, June 16, 2025 2:21:22 PM
Good afternoon city council members and staff, 
HLC appreciates the work staff have done to implement Measure T with a comprehensive
zoning update and implement the housing element with updates to the Below Market Rate
housing program. We hope both processes will result in a streamlined, modern zoning code
that facilitates development allowed by the voter-approved general plan update. Voters
supported the general plan update because they want more housing at all levels of
affordability, and the city should move as quickly as possible to make that housing easier to
build.  
To that end, we write with recommendations for changes and additions to Placework's
Proposal for Services and the Below Market Rate program update. 
Comprehensive Zoning Update
First, the city can reduce costs and potentially speed up the timeline by streamlining
community input. To the extent additional community input is necessary after the six-year
general plan update, it should focus on user input for the zoning code. Focus groups and
targeted surveys, as proposed in the Placeworks RFP response, may help generate useful
feedback. However, open houses will not yield new information after the many public
meetings that the city already held for the General Plan. Instead, the city should encourage
interested residents to attend planning commission and city council hearings. 
Bigger picture, in order to most effectively promote housing pursuant to the voter-approved
General Plan, both phases of the zoning code update should focus on broadly reducing the full
spectrum of constraints to housing. Ideally, this update will streamline the code and make it
more user friendly in a variety of ways, not just by modifying Floor Area Ratios or revising
development standards in special areas. Cities like Cambride, Massachussetes and Spokane,
Washington have recently moved to completely eliminate redundant policies like floor area
ratios, which are unnecessary in cities that already regulate height and density. 
San Mateo should strive to be similarly innovative. To that end, we recommend adding two
additional bullets to the phase 2 scope agreement: 
Streamline redundant density controls, including but not limited to Floor Area Ratios,
massing requirements, setbacks, minimum lot sizes, minimum unit sizes, and all other
development standards
Simplify the zoning code to remove circular references and broaden allowable uses in
all districts. 
Under today's code, developers in San Mateo regularly use a dozen or more density bonus
concessions or waivers to end run around the city's onerous rules. Property owners with less
experience simply forego development they might otherwise pursue due to the code's
complexity. Emphasizing code simplification will ensure San Mateo's zoning code update
results in a better development process--and more homes at all levels of affordability--rather
711 of 1111

--- page 712 ---
than inadvertently adding more hoops.
Adding In-Lieu Fees to the BMR Program

Updates to San Mateo's Below Market Rate housing program also present an opportunity to
make San Mateo's zoning code more accessible to a wider range of users. Specifically, HLC
supports efforts to promote alternative methods for compliance with inclusionary
requirements. The current staff report suggests allowing off-site development of affordable
units and adding "an option that allows developers to propose an alternative."

To maximize usability of the code, the city should also actively encourage an in-lieu fee
option for all projects (current city rules allow in-lieu fees for developments of six to ten units
but not more). In-lieu fees provide funding for deeply affordable homes, which on- and off-
site inclusionary development rarely provides (onsite inclusionary low-income homes
typically meet 80% AMI, whereas in-lieu fees can fund 100% affordable developments that
include some units at the 30-50% AMI level). The fees can result in more affordable homes in
the long term by facilitating more development overall, which results in more total fee revenue
to fund more homes.

Theoretically, the city's proposal to add "an option that allows developers to propose an
alternative" to meeting the BMR rules will provide flexibility to pay in-lieu fees. However,
that proposal fails to provide certainty, opening projects to discretionary approval.
Discretionary approval processes will add significant time to project approvals and require
substantial staff resources to review, decreasing the likelihood real projects will ever choose to
pay in-lieu fees. Clearly defined in-lieu fee options will guarantee future builders have a
pathway to develop that generates revenue for deeply affordable homes.

Both San Mateo's comprehensive zoning update and its Below Market Rate ordinance update
present an opportunity to promote flexibility in development. This flexibility will provide
more high-quality housing options at a range of affordability.

Thank you for your leadership and consideration,
Jeremy

Jeremy Levine (he « him)

Policy Manager

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County

712 of 1111


--- page 713 ---
1 of 9
Implementation of 
Housing Element Policies:
Zoning Code Amendments and 
Update of the Below Market 
Rate (Inclusionary) Program
City Council
June 16, 2025
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
713 of 1111

--- page 714 ---
2 of 17
San Mateo Housing Element (2023-2031)
• Adopted on May 20, 2024, certified by the State 
Housing and Community Development Department 
(HCD) on July 23, 2024
• Five goals to support compliance with state law and to 
achieve the City’s RHNA – Supporting Production, 
Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively 
Furthering Fair Housing
• Includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions
• Numerous Housing Element policies and programs that 
require Zoning Code Amendments and policy 
amendments
714 of 1111

--- page 715 ---
3 of 17
Housing Element Implementation
Zoning Code Amendments Completed
Amended the Zoning Code to allow residential projects with up to 25 units to be 
approved administratively. (Policy H1.6) – November 2023
Adopted Objective Design Standards for multi-family residential projects and 
mixed-use projects with a residential component. (Policy H1.8) – November 2023
Amended the Zoning Code to establish a By-Right designation for housing sites 
reused from prior Housing Elements for housing projects that propose a 
minimum of 20% affordable units. Zoning for these sites must be at least 30 
units/acre to meet default density requirements for lower-income households 
per Gov. Code Section 65583.2(c). (Policy H1.10) – July 2024
Amended the Zoning Code to: implement Housing Element Implementation 
Actions/Programs (variety) and State Law Compliance; increase Zoning 
Administrator threshold for residential project approval to 99 units; code sections 
for General Plan and Measure T consistency (Variety of Policies) – April 2025
715 of 1111

--- page 716 ---
4 of 17
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments
I.
Streamlining the Development 
Review Process (Policy H1.6) 
II.
Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use 
Residential Development Projects 
(Policy H1.9)
III.
Updates to City Below Market-
Rate (Inclusionary) Program 
(Policy H1.3)
716 of 1111

--- page 717 ---
5 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Establish an appeals process for a project ‘incomplete’ determination subject 
to the review and determination of the Planning Commission within a 
designated timeline (Policy H1.6) (HE Commitment) (Govt Code)
•
Align with the Permit Streamlining Act (Govt Code Section 65943)
•
An appeal for an incomplete determination shall be submitted within 
14 days. 
 
Planning Commission shall make a final written determination on the 
appeal not later than 60 calendar days after receipt of the applicant’s 
written appeal. 
717 of 1111

--- page 718 ---
6 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Amend the zoning code to allow the Zoning Administrator to approve up to 
two extensions, each for up to 2 years (currently only one extension for up to 
two years is allowed) (Policy H1.6)
•
Current code allows 2 years from Planning Application approval to submit 
Building Permit + 6 months to issue permit (a total of 2.5 years) + one 2-
year extension (4.5 years total)
•
The proposed change, could allow up to 6.5 years from Planning 
Application Approval with initial approval and all extensions to issue 
Building Permit
•
Propose to remove language that required automatic extension of the 
Planning Application Approval when associated tentative subdivision map 
is extended
718 of 1111

--- page 719 ---
7 of 17
I. Streamlining the Development Review Process 
Modify the requirement for City Council approval of development projects over 
55 feet in height to only require City Council approval of projects when they 
exceed the building height limit specified in General Plan 2040 (Policy H1.6)
•
“Stories” will be further defined with a numeric height as part of the 
Comprehensive Zoning Update
719 of 1111

--- page 720 ---
8 of 17
II. Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use Residential 
Development Projects (Policy H1.9)
Establish minimum densities for mixed-use residential projects based on 
General Plan 2040 mixed-use land use designations. The recommended 
densities vary based on the intensity of the mixed-use land use designation 
and whether the project area is within ½ mile of a Caltrain station. (Policy H1.9) 
(HE Commitment).
Within ½ Mile from Caltrain Stop 
 
Outside of ½ Mile from Caltrain Stop 
•
Densities will be further studied during the Comprehensive Zoning Update project
Mixed-Use Low and 
Mixed-Use Medium I 
30 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medum II 
and Mixed-Use High 
50 du/ac
Mixed-Use Low
10 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medium I 
15 du/ac
Mixed-Use Medum II 
30 du/ac
Mixed-Use High 
50 du/ac
720 of 1111

--- page 721 ---
9 of 17
II. Minimum Densities in Mixed-Use Residential 
Development Projects (Policy H1.9)
721 of 1111

--- page 722 ---
10 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Goal of Policy H1.3 is to increase affordable housing production by allowing more 
compliance options in the City’s Below Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Housing Program and 
creating incentives through the Density Bonus/Community Benefits Program
•
Amendments to BMR Program will provide alternatives to the on-site requirement 
(15% affordable units at lower-income (rental) or moderate-income (for-sale))
•
Providing alternatives is supported by state law (Govt. Code 65850(g)) 
•
Current alternative in City’s BMR Program Guidelines is limited to projects 
where onsite is “economically infeasible” 
722 of 1111

--- page 723 ---
11 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Comprehensive BMR Program revision in 2026 will allow for additional analysis and 
further additions/amendments to City’s BMR Policy
Staff researched alternatives used in other jurisdictions – most common include:
•
In-Lieu Fees – developer pays fee instead of constructing affordable units
•
Land Dedication – developer provides land (to City or development partner) for offsite 
affordable unit construction
•
Off-Site Construction – developer builds affordable units offsite
•
Acquisition and Rehabilitation (of Affordable Units) – developer acquires/rehabs and 
deed-restricts housing occupied by lower-income households
•
Developer-Proposed Alternative – varies 
723 of 1111

--- page 724 ---
12 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Staff recommend an Off-Site Construction Option and Developer-Proposed Alternative 
Option
1. Off-Site Construction Option 
Required City Council findings include:
•
Meets or exceeds affordable unit 
requirement
•
Consistency with the General Plan and 
Housing Element
•
Viable financing
•
Meeting AFFH objectives
•
Concurrent occupancy
2. Developer-Proposed Alternative
Required City Council findings include: 
•
Meets or exceeds affordable housing 
requirement 
•
Consistency with General Plan and Housing 
Element
•
Viable financing
•
Providing greater public benefit than onsite
724 of 1111

--- page 725 ---
13 of 17
III. Zoning Code Amendments – Updates to City Below 
Market-Rate (Inclusionary) Program (Policy H1.3)
Code and policy amendments to BMR program to implement offsite construction and 
developer-proposed alternatives
725 of 1111

--- page 726 ---
14 of 17
PC Recommendations – May 13, 2025
• Recommend that the City Council adopt an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code 
(Title 27) to:
• Address affordable housing compliance options;
• Development of Off-site Units
• Developer-Proposed Alternative
• Planning application procedures; and 
• Minimum densities (dwelling units/acre) for residential mixed-use development projects.
• Proposed that staff evaluate a maximum jobs-to-housing ratio for each mixed-use 
project 
 
(dwelling unit/square-foot of commercial use)
• Recommend that the City Council approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below 
Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program.
726 of 1111

--- page 727 ---
15 of 17
Recommendations
• Adopt an Ordinance amending the Zoning Code (Title 27) to:
• Address affordable housing compliance options;
• Development of Off-site Units
• Developer-Proposed Alternative
• Planning application procedures; and 
• Minimum densities for residential mixed-use development projects.
• Approve a Resolution to update the City’s Below Market Rate 
(Inclusionary) Program.
• Find the Ordinance and Resolution Categorically Exempt per CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15183, Projects Consistent With A Community 
Plan Or Zoning
727 of 1111

--- page 728 ---
16 of 17
Thank you
Steve Golden
Principal Planner, Planning Division
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org
Rachel Horst
Manager, Housing Division
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
728 of 1111

--- page 729 ---
17 of 17
CEQA Evaluation & Public Comments
• Proposed to be Categorically Exempt per CEQA Guidelines Section 
15183, Projects Consistent With A Community Plan Or Zoning
• Public Notices posted to Newspaper, Planning eNewsletters, and the 
Planning Division “What’s Happening” webpage
• No public comments received (to-date)
729 of 1111

--- page 730 ---
18 of 17
Housing Element Implementation 
Future Zoning Code Amendments
•
Amend the City’s ADU Ordinance (Chapter 27.19) to align with current 
State law and to resolve any inconsistencies identified by HCD. (Policy 
H1.4)
•
Evaluate updates to Zoning Code Standards to support housing production 
including excluding covered parking and other elements as needed from 
Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation for housing projects with affordable units 
(Policy H1.7) 
•
Amend the Zoning Code to reduce off-street parking requirements for 
residential units and other parking related requirements and make 
recommendations to reduce or eliminate any other parking related 
requirements identified as a constraint. (Policy H1.7) 
730 of 1111

--- page 731 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  39
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 25-9955
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2025-26 Budget, Capital Improvement Program, Gann Limit, and Capital Reserve Contribution – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt Resolutions to approve the fiscal year 2025-26 operating and capital budgets, the 2025-30 Capital Improvement 
Program, the fiscal year 2025-26 Gann appropriations limit, and a contribution to the Capital Investment Reserve. 
BACKGROUND:
Prior to the Council’s adoption of the fiscal year (FY) 2025-26 budget on June 16, 2025, it holds two public hearings to 
receive public comment on the proposed budget and Capital Improvement Program (CIP). On April 7, 2025, the Council 
reviewed proposed updates to the General Fund Reserve Policy and directed staff to incorporate the changes to the FY 
2025-26 budget. A preview of the 2025-26 General Fund budget and the 2025–2030 CIP was presented on April 21, 2025, 
followed by the first public hearing of the FY 2025-26 proposed budget and five-year CIP on June 2, 2025. In addition, the 
Measure S Oversight Committee recommended that the City Council approve the Measure S-funded programs and capital 
improvement projects at its meeting on May 27, 2025.
Overall, the Citywide budget for FY 2025-26 totals $333.5 million, which includes an operating budget of $272.0 million 
and a capital budget of $61.5 million. The proposed FY 2025-26 General Fund budget, including transfers, is $187.7 million.  
Key budget highlights are summarized in the City Manager’s Letter of Transmittal, included in the opening section of the 
proposed budget. Additional details on all the City's revenues and expenditures are also included through the budget book 
(Attachment 5). 
PERSONNEL BUDGET
Proposed personnel changes are included for City Attorney’s Office, Human Resources, and Information Technology 
departments.  Details are provided in the Appendix section of the budget book (Attachment 5).   
Proposed changes include the reallocation of two existing positions and the addition of one limited-term position:
•
Reallocate 1.0 FTE Assistant City Attorney to 1.0 FTE Senior Assistant City Attorney.
•
Reallocate 1.0 FTE System Analyst I/II to 1.0 FTE Senior System Analyst.
•
Add 1.0 FTE Human Resources Technician (two-year limited term) to support recruitment, onboarding, training 
and benefit administration for the new Wastewater Treatment Plant (funded by the Sewer Fund).
BUDGET HIGHLIGHTS
This agenda report provides a high-level summary of the FY 2025-26 proposed budget of the City’s two major operating 
funds: the General Fund and the Sewer Fund, as well as an executive summary of the 2025-30 five-year CIP.
General Fund
731 of 1111

--- page 732 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The General Fund is the City's primary operating fund. The proposed FY 2025-26 General Fund budget totals $187.7 
million, which includes $175.4 million for operating expenditures and $12.4 million in transfers out, including $3.0 million 
transfers to Debt Service Funds and $8.9 million for capital improvement projects.  
The proposed FY 2025-26 General Fund revenue budget has been revised to $175.8 million, an increase of $3.3 million 
from the previous estimate of $172.5 million. This adjustment reflects positive developments at the State level, where 
one-time State General Fund allocations may be used to fully backfill the FY 2023-24 Vehicle License Fee (VLF) shortfall for 
San Mateo County and its cities. As a result, staff has updated the budget assumption to include the full $6.6 million in VLF 
backfill, up from the previously assumed 50 percent.
This adjustment strengthens the City’s near-term revenue outlook but does not fully offset the structural imbalance 
between ongoing revenues and expenditures.  With the revision, the projected General Fund deficit before contributions 
to CIP is still at $3.0 million (Table 1, Row E). After including $8.9 million in CIP contributions, the deficit increases to $11.9 
million in FY 2025-26 (Table 1, Row G).
Table 1: General Fund Proposed Budget FY 2025-26
To account for current economic uncertainty and risks related to the Property Tax In-Lieu of Vehicle License Fee (VLF) 
backfill, the City has adopted conservative revenue assumptions. Key assumptions include:
•
Property tax: $86.0 million, assuming 4.0 percent assessed value growth.  
•
Sales tax (including the ¼ cent Measure S): remaining flat at $27.6 million. 
•
Real Property Transfer Tax (RPTT): $8.6 million, returning to baseline after one-time spikes in FY 2024-25
•
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT):  $4.0 million, down from the normal $7.0 million due to the closure of a major 
hotel in May 2024 – a significant revenue loss of $3.0 million.
•
Other revenues are expected to remain flat or grow moderately.
On the expenditure side, the budget includes $175.4 million in operating expenditures. Key components include $80.7 
million in personnel costs, reflecting projected increases in salaries and wages, healthcare, and pension costs; $13.6 million 
is the General Fund’s share of the required payment for unfunded pension liability; $42.3 million in other non-personnel 
operating costs; and $38.8 million for Fire Services provided by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire). 
  
Total transfers out from the General Fund are projected to be $12.4 million, allocated as follows:
•
$8.9 million for capital improvements, including $3.0 million from Measure S and $875,000 from Measure CC funds 
(both sub-funds of the General Fund).
•
$2.69 million from Measure S funds for debt service related to flood control and street reconstruction projects.
•
$350,000 to the 2 percent Hotel Tax Fund to ensure the fund has sufficient funding for debt service. 
•
$410,000 to the Equipment Replacement Fund to address building maintenance needs.
General Fund (in millions)
 2024-25
Adopted 
Budget 
 2025-26
Original 
Proposed 
Budget 
 2025-26
Revised 
Proposed 
Budget 
 FY 25 vs. FY26 
Change in $ 
 FY 25 vs. FY26 
Change in % 
Total Revenues 
A
169.9
$        
172.5
$        
175.8
$        
5.9
$                 
3.5%
Expenditures:
Personnel Costs
79.7
80.7
80.7
1.0
1.3%
Pension Unfunded Liability (UAL)
13.0
13.6
13.6
0.6
4.6%
Other Operating Expenditures
40.1
42.3
42.3
2.2
5.5%
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
36.1
38.8
38.8
2.7
7.5%
Total Operating Expenditures
B
168.9
175.4
175.4
6.5
3.8%
Transfer for Debt Service 
C
3.0
3.0
3.0
-
0.0%
Transfer to Other Funds
D
0.4
0.4
0.4
-
0.0%
Surplus / (Deficit) before Contribution to CIP E = A - (B+C+D)
(2.4)
(6.3)
(3.0)
(0.6)
Less: Transfer to Capital Projects Fund
F
8.1
8.9
8.9
0.8
9.9%
Surplus / (Deficit)
G = E - F
(10.5)
$         
(15.2)
$         
(11.9)
$         
(1.4)
$                
732 of 1111

--- page 733 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
General Fund Deficit and Financial Sustainability Plan
As shown in Table 1, the revised FY 2025-26 General Fund proposed budget reflects a $3.0 million deficit before 
contributions to capital improvement projects (Row E), a gap that can be managed through budget savings and targeted 
cost control. However, once the $8.9 million contribution to the Capital Improvement Program (Row F) is included, the 
total deficit widens to $11.9 million (Row G).
This trend signals a structural issue: the City’s current revenue base is no longer sufficient to support both ongoing 
operations and the long-term investments needed for critical infrastructure. Addressing this imbalance require a 
sustained, strategic response over multiple years.
To that end, staff has begun implementing the Financial Sustainability Plan, which focuses on improving cost recovery, 
managing expenditures, and aligning service levels with available resources. Fortunately, the City enters this period of 
fiscal tightening from a position of strength thanks to the long-standing financial discipline of both the City Council and 
administrations, we have healthy reserves that provide us with a runway to take deliberate, long-term actions to balance 
the budget and restore fiscal stability. 
Sewer Fund
The FY 2025-26 proposed budget projects $95.7 million in revenues, principally comprised of sewer service fees of $86.2 
million. The projected revenues reflect the approved annual rate increase of 3.0 percent for FY 2025-26 to support the 
capital improvements and maintain ongoing services. Total expenses are projected to be $93.6 million, comprised of $36.6 
million in operating expenses, $29.1 million in CIP, and $27.8 million in debt service. CIP expenses will largely be funded by 
the low-interest loans from the state and federal government and primarily reflects the commitment to complete the 
Clean Water Program, a comprehensive plan to update the wastewater collection system and wastewater treatment plant 
(WWTP).
Capital Budget and Five-Year CIP
The 2025-30 Five-Year CIP demonstrates the City’s commitment to investing in the community, with a total of $270.0 
million allocated to the CIP for the next five years. Each fiscal year, the City Council appropriates new funding for Year One 
of the five-year CIP. The proposed FY 2025-26 capital budget is $61.5 million as summarized in the table below, as well as 
in detail in the proposed budget book (Attachment 5). 
  Table 2: FY 2025-26 Capital Budget and the 2025-30 Capital Improvement Plan by Function
733 of 1111

--- page 734 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
General Fund Reserve Policy and Initial Contribution to the Capital Investment Reserve
The City reviewed and updated its General Fund Reserve Policy to improve transparency, follow best practices, and 
support long-term financial stability. The revised policy, presented to Council on April 7, 2025, separates reserves into 
clearer categories and creates a new Capital Investment Reserve under the Capital Projects Fund as “seed money” for 
critical, unfunded infrastructure improvements. As part of this update, staff recommends a $25 million initial contribution 
to the Capital Investment Reserve. This funding comes from General Fund reserves released through the restructuring.  
Council supported this approach in April and directed staff to reflect the changes in the FY 2025-26 budget. The $25 million 
transfer is included in the proposed budget. 
GANN LIMIT 
In addition to the adoption of the FY 2025-26 budget and capital improvement program, there will be one other action 
requested of Council as part of the overall budget adoption process on June 16th. This action is to establish the City’s 
appropriations limit for FY 2025-26. The appropriations limit, which was originally established in 1979 by Proposition 4, 
places a maximum limit of the appropriation of tax proceeds that can be made by the state, school districts, and local 
governments in California.  California Government Code requires that the City annually adopt an appropriations limit for 
the upcoming fiscal year. The appropriations limit for the City for FY 2025-26 is $286,074,454, while the proceeds of taxes 
subject to the appropriations limit is $145,665,000. Therefore, the City is well below its appropriations limit for FY 2025-26.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The overall proposed FY 2025-26 budget is $333.5 million, comprised of $272.0 million for the operating budget and $61.5 
million for the capital budget.  
The General Fund is projected to account for $175.8 million in revenues and $187.7 million in expenditures and transfers 
out, reflecting an anticipated draw on the Budget Stabilization Reserve due to increases in costs of providing City services, 
and contributions to capital improvement projects.   Another major fund, the Sewer Fund, is expected to account for $95.7 
million in revenues and $93.6 million in expenditures.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution: Fiscal Year 2025-26 Operating and Capital Budgets
Att 2 – Proposed Resolution: Fiscal Years 2025-30 Capital Improvement Program
Att 3 – Proposed Resolution: Fiscal Year 2025-26 Gann Appropriations Limit
Att 4 – Proposed Resolution: Initial Contribution to the Capital Investment Reserve
Att 5 – Proposed FY 2025-26 Budget Book
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Huang, Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7110
734 of 1111

--- page 735 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2025)
ADOPTING THE 2025-26 CITY BUDGET
WHEREAS, the City Council held public hearings on the Budget and Capital Improvement Program, as 
required by the City Charter section 5.02; and
WHEREAS, budget required to operate and support the City departments and to pay the bonded 
indebtedness of the City, or any portion or district therein, is $271,974,917 for Operating and $61,540,857 for 
the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) for the fiscal year from July 1, 2025 to June 30, 2026; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.50.060, Fiscal Accountability Provisions, requires that the amount 
of revenue generated by the one-quarter cent Measure S Transactions and Use Tax and how it was used be 
included in the annual financial audit; and
WHEREAS, budgeted resources and requirements are sufficient to meet the City Council’s adopted 
financial policy, and that the General Fund reserve will be maintained according to the General Fund reserve 
policy to ensure the City can sustain municipal services during economic downturns, natural disasters and other 
major emergencies. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), 
adoption of the budget is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment.
2.
The City Budget, providing for expenditures and appropriations in the sum of $271,974,917 for 
Operating and $61,540,857 for Capital Improvement Program (CIP), for a total of $333,515,774 
for the fiscal year from July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026, set forth the accompanying 
Administrative Report and its attachments, is approved.
3.
The Measure S spending plan, which is included as part of the City Budget, $8,190,148 in 
operating expenditures and transfers out for the fiscal year from July 1, 2025 to June 30, 2026 
that includes: 
a.
$1,813,840 in salaries and benefits covering a total of 5.91 Full Time Equivalents (FTE), 
including 3.0 FTE merit Police Officers, 1.0 FTE merit Police Sergeant, 0.75 FTE merit Library 
Assistant I/II, 1.0 FTE merit Community Services Coordinator, and 0.16 FTE merit Community 
Services Supervisor; and 
b.
$347,276 in non-personnel operating expenditures that consist of $114,301 for the Library 
Department and $232,975 for the Parks and Recreation Department; and
c.
$3,000,000 in transfers to the Capital Project Fund to support capital improvement projects; 
and
d.
$339,032 in transfers to the General Fund that represents year seven of ten to repay the 
advance funding from the General Fund; and
e.
$2,690,000 in debt service on street and flood control lease revenue bonds; is approved; 
and
735 of 1111

--- page 736 ---
4.
The FTE positions by department as noted in the table below for the fiscal year 2025-26 are 
hereby approved the pay period that includes July 1, 2025; and
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2025-26 PROPOSED 
BUDGET
CITY ATTORNEY
City Attorney
1.00
Assistant City Attorney
2.00
Executive Secretary to City Attorney
1.00
Senior Assistant City Attorney
1.00
Total Merit
5.00
Total Per Diem
-
Total FTE
5.00
CITY CLERK
City Clerk
1.00
Assistant to the City Clerk
1.50
Deputy City Clerk
1.00
Management Analyst I/II
1.00
Total Merit
4.50
Total Per Diem
0.25
Total FTE
4.75
CITY COUNCIL 
City Council Member
5.00
Total Merit
5.00
Total Per Diem
-
Total FTE
5.00
CITY MANAGER
City Manager
1.00
Assistant City Manager
1.00
Communications and Engagement Coordinator I/II
1.00
Communications Manager
1.00
Economic Development Manager
1.00
Executive Secretary to City Manager
1.00
Management Analyst I/II
1.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Sustainability Analyst
1.00
Total Merit
9.00
Total Per Diem
0.48
Total FTE
9.48
736 of 1111

--- page 737 ---
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Community Development Director
1.00
Administrative Assistant
4.00
Administrative Technician
2.00
Associate Planner
6.00
Building Inspector I/II
7.00
Business Manager
1.00
Code Enforcement Manager
1.00
Code Enforcement Officer I/II
3.00
Deputy Building Official
1.00
Deputy Community Development Director
1.00
Deputy Comm. Dev. Director/Building Official
1.00
Development Review Technician
5.00
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
1.00
Housing Specialist I/II
2.00
Inspection Supervisor
1.00
Managing Arborist
1.00
Office Assistant I/II
2.00
Permit Center Supervisor
1.00
Plan Check Supervisor
1.00
Plan Checker Engineer
5.00
Planning Manager
1.00
Principal Planner
2.00
Senior Business Systems Analyst
1.00
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
1.00
Senior Development Review Technician
2.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Senior Planner
2.00
Total Merit
57.00
Total Per Diem
0.92
Total FTE
57.92
HUMAN RESOURCES
Human Resources Director
1.00
Deputy Human Resources Director
1.00
Human Resources Information Systems Analyst I/II
1.00
Human Resources Technician
3.00
Human Resources Technician – 2-year Limited Term
1.00
Senior Human Resources Analyst
4.00
Senior Human Resources Analyst Risk Manager
1.00
Total Merit
12.00
Total Per Diem
0.48
Total FTE
12.48
737 of 1111

--- page 738 ---
FINANCE
shou
Finance Director
1.00
Accountant I/II
2.00
Accounting Assistant I/II
4.00
Accounting Manager
1.00
Budget Manager
1.00
Deputy Finance Director
1.00
Finance Specialist I/II
1.00
Payroll Supervisor
1.00
Payroll Technician I/II
1.00
Senior Accountant
2.00
Senior Accounting Assistant
2.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Total Merit
18.00
Total Per Diem
-
Total FTE
18.00
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Information Technology Director
1.00
Consulting and Applications Manager
1.00
Customer Service Manager
1.00
GIS Coordinator
1.00
GIS Technician I/II
1.00
IS Support Technician I/II
2.00
Network Analyst
1.00
Senior IS Support Technician
1.00
Senior Systems Analyst
1.00
Systems Analyst I/II
2.00
Systems and Network Manager
1.00
Web Specialist
1.00
Total Merit
14.00
Total Per Diem
0.23
Total FTE
14.23
LIBRARY
City Librarian
1.00
Administrative Technician
1.00
Community Services Coordinator
1.00
Deputy City Librarian
1.00
Executive Assistant
1.00
Librarian I/II
9.63
Library Assistant I/II
9.75
Library Technology Specialist
1.00
738 of 1111

--- page 739 ---
Literacy Program Coordinator
1.00
Literacy Specialist
0.63
Senior Accounting Assistant
1.00
Senior Library Assistant
3.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Supervising Librarian
3.00
Supervising Library Assistant
1.00
Total Merit
36.00
Total Per Diem
13.23
Total FTE
49.23
PARKS AND RECREATION
Parks and Recreation Director
1.00
Administrative Technician
3.00
Business Manager
1.00
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1.00
Community Services Coordinator
9.00
Community Services Manager
1.00
Community Services Section Manager
2.00
Community Services Supervisor
7.00
Custodian
1.00
Deputy Parks and Recreation Director
1.00
Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor
1.00
Golf Equipment Maintenance Specialist
1.00
Golf Services Manager
1.00
Irrigation Specialist
2.00
Landscape Laborer/Maintenance Worker I/II
18.00
Lead Teacher
2.00
Managing Arborist
1.00
Park and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor
1.00
Park and Landscape Manager
1.00
Senior Park Landscape Maintenance Worker
3.00
Senior Park Ranger
1.00
Senior Program Assistant
5.00
Senior Project Manager
1.00
Tree Maintenance Specialist
1.00
Total Merit
66.00
Total Per Diem
50.17
Total FTE
116.17
POLICE
Chief of Police
1.00
Administrative Assistant
2.00
Administrative Technician
1.00
Business Manager
1.00
Community Service Officer I/II
5.00
739 of 1111

--- page 740 ---
Crime and Intelligence Analyst
1.00
Dispatch Services Supervisor
2.00
Dispatcher 
12.00
Management Analyst I/II
2.00
Police Captain
2.00
Police Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1.00
Police Digital Forensic Specialist
1.00
Police Evidence Analyst
1.00
Police Lieutenant
6.00
Police Officer
90.00
Police Records Specialist I/II
5.00
Police Records Supervisor
2.00
Police Sergeant
17.00
Police Support Services Analyst
1.00
Police Technical Services Administrator
1.00
Senior Business Systems Analyst
1.00
Senior Community Service Officer
1.00
Senior Dispatcher
2.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Senior Police Records Specialist
2.00
Vehicle Abatement Officer
2.00
Total Merit
163.00
Total Per Diem
11.96
Total FTE
174.96
PUBLIC WORKS
Public Works Director
1.00
Administrative Assistant
6.00
Administrative Technician
2.00
Associate Engineer
14.00
Associate Transportation Planner
1.00
Building Maintenance Supervisor
1.00
Business Manager
1.00
Calibration Technician
1.00
Central Services Worker
1.00
Construction Inspector I/II
4.00
Deputy Director of Public Works
2.00
Downtown Coordinator
1.00
Engineering Manager
3.00
Engineering Technician I/II
6.00
Environmental Compliance Inspector
3.00
Environmental Programs Coordinator
1.00
Executive Assistant
1.00
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
1.00
Facility Maintenance Worker
4.00
Field Maintenance Manager
1.00
740 of 1111

--- page 741 ---
Fleet Services Supervisor
1.00
Instrument Control Technician
1.00
Laboratory Analyst I/II
3.00
Laboratory Analyst III
1.00
Laboratory Supervisor
1.00
Laborer
1.00
Maintenance Planner
2.00
Maintenance Worker I/II
26.00
Management Analyst I/II
3.00
Principal Transportation Planner
1.00
Project Manager I/II
3.00
Public Works Maintenance Leadworker
3.00
Public Works Supervisor
4.00
Pump Station Mechanic I/II
3.00
Pump Station Mechanic III
1.00
Regulatory Compliance Manager
1.00
Senior Engineer
7.00
Senior Facility Maintenance Worker
3.00
Senior I&C Technician
1.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
Solid Waste & Recycling Program Coordinator
1.00
Solid Waste Technician
1.00
Traffic and Light Technician
2.00
Traffic Safety Worker
3.00
WWTP Electrical Technician
2.00
WWTP Maintenance Superintendent
1.00
WWTP Manager
1.00
WWTP Mechanic I/II
6.00
WWTP Mechanic III
2.00
WWTP Operations Superintendent
1.00
WWTP Operator In-Training/I/II
10.00
WWTP Operator III
5.00
WWTP Shift Supervisor
2.00
Waste Management Supervisor
1.00
Total Merit
160.00
Total Per Diem
6.04
Total FTE
166.04
2025-26 POSITION BUDGET:
TOTAL MERIT 
549.50
TOTAL PER DIEM 
83.76
TOTAL FTEs
633.26
5.
The City Manager is authorized and instructed to effectuate the City Budget as approved.
741 of 1111

--- page 742 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2025)
APPROVING THE 2025-2030 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
WHEREAS, the City Council held public hearings on the Budget and Capital Improvement Program (CIP), 
as required by the City Charter section 5.02; and
WHEREAS, the CIP is a five-year plan that identifies all planned capital improvement projects, their 
estimated cost, and a revenue and/or funding source forecast; and
WHEREAS, the 2025-30 Capital Improvement Program, presented as part of the proposed budget 
document that was delivered to Council on June 2, 2025, included details on recommended and funded CIP 
projects, as well as projects without an identified funding source; and
WHEREAS, the City has complied with Government Code Sections 65400, 65401, and 65403 that require 
the City’s governing body to review public works projects proposed for the fiscal year to determine conformity 
with the adopted General Plan; and
WHEREAS, the 2025-2030 CIP includes capital projects planned for the five-year period totaling 
$270,021,914; and
WHEREAS, no changes to the 2025-2030 CIP were proposed by the Council; and
WHEREAS, section 5.09 of the City’s Charter requires that the CIP be approved by Council resolution. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), 
adoption of the Capital Improvement Program is exempt from CEQA because it is a government 
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in 
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment.
2.
Based on a review of the proposed Capital Improvement Program for fiscal years 2025-30, as 
delivered to the City Council on June 2, 2025 and presented at a regularly scheduled meeting on 
June 16, 2025, the City Council finds the Capital Improvement Program for fiscal years 2025-30 is 
consistent with the goals, policies, and actions contained within the City of San Mateo General 
Plan and all applicable laws, including Government Code Section 65400 et seq.  
3.
The 2025-2030 Capital Improvement Program for the City of San Mateo, set forth in the 
accompanying Administrative Report and the proposed business plan document, is approved.
742 of 1111

--- page 743 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ______ (2025) 
 
ESTABLISHING THE CITY’S APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2025-26
 
 
 
WHEREAS, under Article XIII B of the California Constitution and Government Code sections 7900 and 
following, the City is required to establish an annual appropriations limit based on revenues obtained from the 
proceeds of taxes; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the method and basis of calculating these limits was revised by Proposition 111, amending 
Article XIII B of the State Constitution, and the implementing legislation, to allow election of the basis for 
population adjustment between the change in population in either the city or the county and an election of 
inflation factor between the growth of California per capita income or the growth of nonresidential assessed 
valuation due to new construction in the city; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo population percentage change over the prior year is 0.09 percent and 
the growth in California per capita personal income is 6.44 percent;  
 
 
WHEREAS, utilizing the population growth for the City of San Mateo and the growth in California per 
capital personal income yield the most favorable appropriations limit; and
WHEREAS, the appropriations limit for 2025-26 is $286,074,454 and the estimated budgeted proceeds 
from taxes are $145,665,000. 
 
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES, that: 
 
1.
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this action is exempt from review 
under the California Environmental Quality Act because it can be seen with certainty that it will not have a 
significant impact on the environment.
2.
The City Council finds that the adjustment factors shall be based on the City’s population growth 
and the growth in California per capita income to determine the appropriations limit for the fiscal year 2025-26. 
 
3.
The City Council approves the appropriation limit on revenue obtained from the proceeds of 
taxes for fiscal year 2025-26 to be $286,074,454 using the selected adjustment factors. 
 
 
743 of 1111

--- page 744 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ______ (2025) 
 
APPROVING A $25 MILLION CONTRIBUTION FROM THE GENERAL FUND TO 
THE CAPITAL INVESTMENT RESERVE UNDER THE CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo conducted a comprehensive review of its General Fund Reserve Policy 
to improve financial transparency, align with best practices, and ensure long-term fiscal sustainability; and
WHEREAS, staff presented the analysis and proposed changes to the reserve policies to the City Council 
on April 7, 2025;  and
WHEREAS, the revised policies identify and separate specific categories of reserves, including the 
establishment of a Capital Investment Reserve under the Capital Projects Fund, dedicated to funding critical, 
unfunded capital improvement needs; and
WHEREAS, the Finance Department recommends an initial contribution of $25 million to the Capital 
Investment Reserve, funded from released General Fund reserves from the restructuring of the reserve levels; 
and
WHEREAS, the City Council finds it prudent and fiscally responsible to allocate a portion of the released 
funds to support long-term capital infrastructure needs; and
WHEREAS, the City Council directed staff to incorporate the revised reserve policies through the fiscal 
year 2025-26 budget; and
WHEREAS, based on the adopted FY 2025-26 budget, an initial contribution of $25,000,000 is to be 
made from the General Fund to the newly established Capital Investment Reserve under the City’s Capital 
Projects Fund;
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES, that: 
 
1.
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, this action is exempt from review 
under the California Environmental Quality Act because it can be seen with certainty that it will not have a 
significant impact on the environment.
2.
The City Council authorizes a transfer of $25 million from the General Fund unassigned balance 
to the Capital Investment Reserve under the Capital Projects Fund for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.
 
744 of 1111

--- page 745 ---
Fiscal Year
2025-26 |

G = e
va

_Adop

; = a

4AnTroR™

CITY OF SAN MATEO

ted Budget’ |



--- page 746 ---
3
DEPARTMENTS
57
Departments by Fund
58
14
City Attorney
60
15
City Clerk
63
16
City Council
68
17
City Manager's Office
71
19
Community Development
76
20
Finance
85
22
Human Resources
90
23
Information Technology
95
24
Library
100
25
Parks and Recreation
105
26
Police
113
28
Public Works
122
Non-Departmental
129
29
30
FUND INFORMATION
131
32
Special Revenues
133
35
Debt Service
149
36
Enterprise
153
38
Internal Services
156
39
41
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
163
44
Summary
164
46
CIP Projects by Category
170
Table of Contents
TRANSMITTAL OF PROPOSED BUDGET
CITY OVERVIEW
City Council Vision
City Council Strategic Direction
City Council Priorities
Organizational Vision
City Profile
City Organizational Chart
Basis of Budgeting
Budget Preparation Timeline
Budget Preparation Process
GFOA Budget Award
CSMFO Budget Award
BUDGET OVERVIEW
Citywide Sources of Funding
Citywide Operating Budget 
Capital Improvement Projects Budget
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Personnel
All Funds Budget Summary
Pension Long-Term Forecast
General Fund Summary
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
48
CIP Projects by Funding Source 
174
Funded Projects
178
Unfunded Projects
185
APPENDIX
188
Financial Policies
189
Financial Policy - General Fund Reserve 
196
Financial Policy - Capital Investment Reserve 
198
GANN Appropriations Limit
199
Budget Changes
200
DEI Initiatives
202
Glossary
208
*All items within this document listed as 2025-26 have been adopted
746 of 1111

--- page 747 ---
Budget Message
3
747 of 1111

--- page 748 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
City Manager’s Letter of Transmittal 
Honorable Mayor and Members of the City Council: 
I am pleased to present for your review and consideration the proposed Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26 operating budget and 
the FY 2025-26 Capital Budget along with the City’s Capital Improvement Program (CIP) for the next five years. This 
budget reflects our commitment to providing essential City services, investing in our community, and ensuring long-
term fiscal health. 
Overall, the proposed citywide budget, including both operating and capital, is $333.5 million for fiscal year 2025-26. 
This budget continues to provide funding for core services, Council priorities, and community needs.  The five-year CIP 
reflects the City’s commitment to improve and maintain City facilities and infrastructure, by investing $270 million 
over the next five years in capital projects. Although there were some modest operating increases to enhance service 
levels in targeted areas; such as providing resources for public safety, transportation, and storm and flood controls; 
the City’s headcount and expenditures for FY 2025-26 are in line with those from FY 2024-25.   
Limited increases are proposed for FY 2025-26 because the City continues to estimate a structural budget deficit as 
part of continuing to fund essential City services. Given the economic impacts; such as continued high inflation and 
interest rates, a slowdown of sales in the housing market, sales tax revenues flattening, and State Vehicle License Fee 
(VLF) revenue shortfalls; coupled with increased costs for providing city services and increased unfunded pension 
liability costs and payments; the City’s fiscal stability is threatened. We are currently able to bridge the funding gap in 
the interim using our strong reserves from prudent financial stewardship from the current Council and previous 
Councils’ and administrations, but this is not sustainable. Especially as San Mateo continues to face financial 
headwinds, such as funding the modernization of our aging City facilities and infrastructure, which impacts public 
safety, accessibility, and quality of life. Right now, we have over $350 million in capital projects that have no funding 
sources, posing a major financial hurdle. In addition, we are facing regional, state, federal and global economic 
uncertainty. For all these reasons we continue to further develop a multi-pronged multi-year financial sustainability 
plan to work toward the long-term fiscal health of the City and continue to provide essential services to our 
community.  
Although we are mindful of the fiscal challenges at hand, the goal of this budget message is to provide an overview of 
the components of the FY 2025-26 Citywide Operating Budget and the FY 2025-26 Capital Budget and Five-Year CIP. 
This year’s budget, as in the past, focuses on weaving together the City Council priorities and the service needs of the 
community with the fiscal reality and challenges facing San Mateo as well as other cities within San Mateo County. The 
following sections of the letter of transmittal provide a summary of how that is accomplished in this year’s budget and 
how the City plans to accomplish this in future budgets. 
4
748 of 1111

--- page 749 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
City Council Priorities 
The City Council priorities for FY 2025-26 are part of a larger picture that starts with the City Council Vision and 
Strategic Direction and leads to the annual, two to five-year, and five-year plus priorities included in this budget book. 
Below are the City Council adopted FY 2025-26 priorities: 
 
• 
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030 
• 
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide Community Outreach and Engagement Program   
• 
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to evaluate 
City facilities and assets when upgrades are needed 
• 
Deliver the Clean Water Program 
• 
Explore limiting overnight parking of RVs in commercial corridors 
• 
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food trucks 
• 
Develop City Council Code of Conduct with measurable consequences 
• 
Develop an Ordinance to prohibit gas leaf blowers 
• 
Explore funding opportunities for fund Youth Service Officers at schools 
• 
Complete speed surveys in order to fully enforce automobile speeding 
• 
Conduct research on equitable access to electric vehicle charging infrastructure 
• 
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response Management or 311 system 
• 
Implement Phase I of the Central Park Master Plan 
• 
Address structural issues at the Marina Library 
• 
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Centers 
• 
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund 
• 
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of progress on all ongoing plans, including project updates and key 
metrics such as City mode share, collision, and safety data 
These annual priorities are reflected in the FY 2025-26 Citywide Operating Budget and the FY 2025-26 Capital Budget. 
These budgets advance the priorities by investing in process improvement efforts for key programs, assessing the 
development of new policies, providing a comprehensive review of various infrastructure needs, and providing 
support to new programs and community engagement efforts where feasible. 
 
In addition to these priorities, City staff developed Department Equity Initiatives in FY 2024-25 to further the goals 
outlined in the City’s adopted Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Strategic Framework. A summary of the progress 
made by Departments on these Equity Initiatives is provided in the Appendix of this budget document. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
749 of 1111

--- page 750 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
2025-26 Citywide Operating Budget 
The table below summarizes the FY 2025-26 business plans for Citywide operating expenditures:  
 
    CITYWIDE OPERATING BUDGET 
 
2025-26  
PROJECTED  
BUDGET 
General Fund 
   
       $                175.4  
Special Revenue and Debt Service Funds 
 
                         30.6  
Enterprise Funds 
 
                         65.9  
Total Operating Budget 
 
       $ 272.0   
In millions. Operating costs include debt service payments. 
 
The City implements a two-year budget cycle, which requires that each department submit two one-year expenditure 
plans and revenue estimates to the City Council for approval. This is the second year of the two-year budget cycle in 
which City staff makes recommendations to the City Council for amending the second-year plan.   
 
The proposed FY 2025-26 Citywide operating budget is $272 million, which is an increase of approximately 6.5% over 
the adopted FY 2024-25 budget.  This change reflects the general increase in the cost of operating the City at existing 
service levels and primarily shows increases in personnel costs due to negotiated bargaining unit contracts and 
benefits costs. 
 
As outlined, this second year of the two-year budget cycle proposes few changes from the FY 2024-25 budget. The 
proposed FY 2025-26 budget generally recommends maintaining merit staffing levels by adding only one two-year 
limited term FTE to put the City at 550 Full Time Equivalents (FTE) and including two reallocations. Also, resources 
have been added to the personnel costs to fully fund the adopted labor agreements for all labor groups and provide 
for increases in benefits such as health insurance costs. A few changes have been made to non-personnel operating 
costs, but they represent only about $.07 million, a small portion of the overall operating budget. 
A summary of the changes to the personnel budget, as well as all other operational increases to the baseline budget, 
are included in the Appendix section of this document. 
 
General Fund 
The General Fund is the primary funding source for our core services. The FY 2025-26 proposed budget, including 
transfers out, is $187.8 million, an increase of 4.0% over the adopted FY 2024-25 budget of $180.4 million. This increase 
is the result of several factors, including rising personnel costs, especially increases due to negotiated labor contracts 
and benefits, rising pension costs, and the City’s continued contribution to capital projects. 
 
The proposed budget reflects a moderate growth in most of the General Fund revenues. The revenue projection is 
based on the assumptions that the high inflation and interest rate environment will continue in the next year, at least, 
and that the property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF) shortfalls will be backfilled by the State of California in full 
this year. These key assumptions are discussed in detail in the Budget Overview section of this budget document. 
 
 
 
6
750 of 1111

--- page 751 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
Due to the increase in costs and the uncertainty in some revenues, it is projected that the City will have a budget deficit 
of $12 million for FY 2025-26 and will require use of the Budget Stabilization Reserve to fund everything currently 
programmed in the budget. Even though what is currently programmed includes discretionary items, the fact remains 
that the City will need to begin prioritizing among many competing resource demands over the next few years to 
ensure we remain in a good financial position.  
Measure S 
Measure S, the 0.25% transactions and use tax extension, generates about $7 million in tax revenue each year.  This 
critical funding source makes a significant difference for our community by providing much-needed support for both 
operations and capital improvements. 
The proposed FY 2025-26 budget showcases how Measure S funding is allocated to enhance our City core services and 
infrastructure. In addition to providing $2.2 million to support ongoing police, library, parks and recreation programs, 
the budget includes $3 million from Measure S to support CIP projects. These projects include $1.25 million for the 
Marina Library improvements and reconstruction, $0.6 million for Police Department technology projects, $0.1 million 
for the Quick-Build Program to improve bike and pedestrian safety, $0.8 million for the Citywide Street Rehabilitation 
program, $0.9 million set-aside for synthetic turf field replacement, $0.35 million for Citywide Play Court Resurfacing, 
and $0.3 million for the Los Prados Court Lighting Improvements. On May 27, 2025, the Measure S Oversight 
Committee reviewed and recommended the Measure S FY 2025-26 budget, which has been incorporated in this 
proposed budget document. 
General Fund Revenues
2025-26 Proposed Budget
$175.8 million
Property Tax
Sales Tax
Property Transfer Tax
Business License Tax
Transient Occupancy Tax
Recreation and Golf Service Charges
All Other
General Fund Expenditures 
2025-26 Proposed Budget
$187.8 million 
Personnel
Operating
SMC Fire and Fire Legacy Costs
Transfers Out
7
751 of 1111

--- page 752 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
2025-26 Capital Budget and 2025-30 Five-Year Capital Improvement Program (CIP) 
The Capital Improvement Program (CIP) for FY 2025-26 totals $61.5 million. Major projects include the Clean Water 
Program, Smooth Streets Program, storm and flood control improvements, roadway safety and bicycle/pedestrian 
initiatives: 
 
Clean Water Program - The City continues to move closer to completion of the $1 billion Clean Water Program where 
tremendous progress has been made to upgrade and expand the wastewater treatment plant and the collection 
systems to provide high-quality services to our community for decades to come. A grand opening ribbon cutting for 
the upgraded wastewater treatment plant is scheduled for September 2025. The program leveraged low interest loans 
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) 
and the State of California’s State Revolving Fund (SRF) loans to save rate payers over $170 million compared to 
issuing debt through the municipal bond market. 
 
Smooth Streets Program – The City will continue to commit at least $8 million annually as part of the ongoing 
program to expedite street resurfacing and reconstruction. This program is funded partially by Measure S, and special 
revenues such as gas tax, Measure A, Measure W, and Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) funds. 
 
Storm and Flood Controls – In January 2024, the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee Ballot Measure was 
approved by property owners, passing with 51.78% of the vote. This measure will generate approximately $4 million 
annually in stormwater fee revenue, providing consistent and sustainable funding for significant improvements to our 
stormwater system. The new funding will be allocated to immediate storm preparedness and mitigation 
improvements, the development of an updated stormwater master plan, and capital projects aimed at enhancing our 
stormwater infrastructure. 
 
Roadway and Bike/Pedestrian Improvements - Our 2025–30 CIP allocates $12.9 million for roadway and 
bike/pedestrian capital improvements over the next five years. In the upcoming fiscal year, we are committing $4.1 
million to these initiatives, including $1.7 million for safe routes to school projects and $0.1 million for the Quick Build 
Mobility Program to enhance bike and pedestrian safety.  
 
In addition to these major initiatives, we have several other important capital and infrastructure projects programmed 
in the budget for FY 2025-26. Some of the notable projects include:   
 
• 
Marina Library Branch Reconstruction Project – Investing an additional $1.25 million from Measure S funding 
and $1 million from the General Fund to fix the Marina Library structural issues and make improvements and 
renovation. The total project will cost about $8.07 million. This project is funded approximately 60% by city 
funds and 40% by grants. Our investment today will ensure our residents have a great library facility to enjoy 
and benefit from for years to come. 
• 
Joinville Pool Assessment and Improvements – A thorough assessment of the pool and swim center led to a 
multiphase plan that includes immediate repairs to ensure continued operation, along with the design and 
implementation of short-term upgrades to meet code compliance. 
• 
Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center Modernization and Visioning Process – Following a Facilities 
Assessment for the center, the City plans to conduct a visioning process and add new features to help the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Center meet the criteria for a Community Resilience Hub. The design and features of the 
Resilience Hub are in development. 
 
8
752 of 1111

--- page 753 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
• 
Citywide Facilities Conditions Assessment - The purpose of this Citywide program is to evaluate each City 
owned facility on an individual basis, analyze potential issues with the physical conditions, develop cost 
estimates and use that information to prioritize maintenance and repairs in the most efficient manner. Initial 
results of the assessment are expected to be shared with the community in Fall 2025. 
• 
Peninsula/Delaware Intersection Safety Improvements - This project will implement a priority project as 
identified in the Local Roadway Safety Plan. Improvements include updated signal hardware, protected left-
turn phase, and various other safety improvements. 
• 
Development of Updated Citywide Stormwater Master Plan – This project is on-going and will replace the 
City’s outdated Storm Drain Master Plan previously conducted in 2004. Project details include condition 
assessment of existing infrastructure, development of new models, master planning, and prioritization of long-
term capital improvements for flood control. 
• 
Storm System Dredging - This project is for initiating design, permitting, and environmental review for a future 
large-scale dredge of Marina Lagoon, which would increase stormwater retention capacity, restore 
recreational water depths, and improve water quality. 
These projects are a testament to the investment and commitment we make to our community even as we face 
economic and revenue uncertainties. These priority projects, along with other major capital investments, are 
discussed in detail in the Capital Improvement Program section of this budget document. 
 
Fiscal Reality and Challenges 
While we prioritize Council goals and community needs, this budget is developed amidst a complex and uncertain 
financial environment. We must acknowledge the current fiscal realities, including high inflation, a slowdown in the 
housing market, economic uncertainty, and potential revenue shortfalls. Uncertainties related to our tax revenues 
raise concerns about our financial sustainability. Additionally, we also face increasing costs to provide services, 
ongoing pension obligations, and funding limitations for CIP projects.  
 
Tax Revenue Uncertainties 
San Mateo relies on tax revenues to fund our core services. Although secured property tax remains a stable revenue 
source, this revenue base is projecting a moderate 4.0% annual growth for the next few years.  
 
Sales tax, as the City’s second largest tax revenue, is projected to stay flat with a moderate 1-2% annual growth. Due 
to a major hotel closure, the City has a new baseline for estimated annual TOT of $4.0 million in FY 2025-26 and 
beyond, down from the previous $7 million baseline. Property transfer tax fluctuates with economic conditions. Due 
to high interest rates and a stable, but slow housing market, property transfer tax is anticipated to stay flat with an 
$8.6 million revenue projection for the upcoming year. In addition, the City continues to face major financial 
uncertainty due to the State’s property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fee (VLF).  VLF is a key component of the City’s 
property tax revenues, making up roughly 18% of our total property tax revenues, and about 10% of the total General 
Fund revenues. The absence of reliable funding sources for VLF from the State of California has become a major threat 
to the City’s fiscal sustainability. 
 
The City’s FY 2025-26 proposed budget assumes that the State will eventually honor its VLF obligations to the City. Our 
share of FY 2023-24 county-wide VLF shortfalls is $6.6 million, and we estimated this to be backfilled in FY 2025-26 in 
full. However, if this assumption does not hold, the General Fund’s FY 2025-26 budget deficit will increase by $6.6 
million from the current $12 million to $18.6 million. Furthermore, if the State budget deficit situation does not 
improve, our share of the FY 2024-25 VLF shortfalls ($7.1 million) will be at risk, potentially pushing the City’s 
projected FY 2026-27 budget deficit from the current $7.3 million to $14.4 million.  
9
753 of 1111

--- page 754 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
 
Pension Costs 
Pension obligations have placed a significant strain on our budget. CalPERS pension contribution requirements have 
increased significantly over the years due to a number of factors, including CalPERS lower-than-expected investment 
returns and changes in actuarial assumptions. The City’s unfunded pension liability is currently just over $300 million. 
Citywide pension costs are expected to continue to go up in FY 2025-26 as they did in FY 2024-25, primarily due to the 
CalPERS’s investment loss of -6.2% in FY 2021-22 and the 5.8% investment gain in FY 2022-23, which did not meet the 
CalPERS investment projections. For FY 2024-25, the General Fund pension total increased about $6 million and an 
additional increase of $1 million is expected in FY 2025-26. The City’s overall pension costs are estimated to keep 
increasing through FY 2030-31 , after which pension requirements are expected to gradually ramp down, provided 
CalPERS can achieve its 6.8% annual investment return target for future years. 
 
To demonstrate the impact of these increases on General Fund operations, the table below compares expected 
pension expenditures over the next ten years with our projected sales tax revenue, which is the second largest 
General Fund revenue source.   
 
Table 1: Comparison of General Fund 10-Year Pension Costs and Local 1% Sales Tax Projection (in millions) 
FISCAL YEAR 
GENERAL FUND 
PENSION   
NORMAL COSTS 
GENERAL FUND 
PENSION  
UAL REQUIREMENT 
GENERAL FUND 
TOTAL  
PENSION COSTS 
PROJECTED  
1% SALES TAX 
REVENUE 
PENSION AS A 
PERCENTAGE OF 
1% SALES TAX 
2024-25 
$5.8 
$19.4 
$25.2 
$20.5 
123% 
2025-26 
$5.9 
$20.5 
$26.4 
$20.2 
131% 
2026-27 
$6.0 
$21.6 
$27.6 
$20.4 
135% 
2027-28 
$6.0 
$22.4 
$28.4 
$20.8 
136% 
2028-29 
$6.0 
$24.3 
$30.3 
$21.2 
143% 
2029-30 
$6.0 
$24.7 
$30.7 
$21.7 
142% 
2030-31 
$6.1 
$25.0 
$31.1 
$22.1 
141% 
2031-32 
$6.1 
$24.3 
$30.4 
$22.5 
135% 
2032-33 
$6.1 
$24.1 
$30.2 
$23.0 
131% 
2033-34 
$6.1 
$22.9 
$29.0 
$23.4 
124% 
* Pension normal cost presents the annual cost of providing pension benefit for active employees based on their one-year service.   
**UAL (Unfunded Actuarial Liability) requirement is the annual payment based on the amortized dollar amount of the City’s unfunded pension liability. 
 
As the table indicates, our entire local 1% sales tax is not sufficient to cover the General Fund’s share of the annual 
pension contribution requirement. This example demonstrates the type of pressure the increase in pension 
expenditures will put on the General Fund and City operations, as these expenditures are consuming an increasing 
share of our overall operating revenues and limiting our ability to make new service-level commitments.  
 
 
 
 
10
754 of 1111

--- page 755 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
Aging City Facilities and Infrastructure  
We all know that parks, open space, playgrounds, libraries, vibrant recreation facilities, smooth and safe streets, storm 
and flood controls, and clean water infrastructure are essential for a thriving community. The City is committed to 
continuing to invest in our infrastructure and improve our facilities to a level the community deserves. However, 
maintaining and improving our aged City facilities and infrastructure requires significant funding, and right now, our 
resources are limited.    
 
Streets and Transportation  
Currently, we rely on special revenue sources (Gas Tax, Measure A, Measure W, Measure M, and RMRA) totaling 
about $8.7 million in FY 25-26 to fund streets and transportation projects. However, the Smooth Streets Program 
alone requires annual funding of $7.8 to $8.0 million, leaving little for other critical projects. To address the funding 
gap, we often turn to the General Fund and Measure S for extra funding support. This may become more and more 
challenging as the General Fund itself is experiencing a significant budget deficit. 
 
Aging City Facilities  
The General Fund, which supports all City facility repairs and improvements, faces increasing pressure. Although 
General Fund and Measure S combined provide about $7 million annually to fund CIP projects, it is still not enough to 
meet all the needs. 
   
Many City facility projects were put on hold or deferred due to funding issues, such as improvement projects for the 
2nd and El Camino Real parking garage, structural repair of the Main Library Garage, waterproofing and painting the 
Main Street, Central, and Transit Parking Garages, all of which highlight the significant need related to City facilities.   
 
Although funding is a challenge, I believe, by working collaboratively, exploring funding options, and prioritizing needs, 
we can create a plan to build the infrastructure and facilities our community deserves. To ensure we're investing 
wisely, during FY 2025-26, the City will complete its comprehensive Citywide facilities assessment. This assessment will 
help us understand our facilities’ condition, prioritize needs, and develop a strategic plan for investing in and 
protecting our facilities. We will keep you updated on the results of the Citywide facilities assessment and future 
plans. 
 
Ongoing Fiscal Sustainability Actions 
Our City has a proud tradition of fiscal responsibility. I appreciate the City Council's prudent fiscal discipline, which has 
led us to a strong financial position. Thanks to careful and proactive planning, we’ve built a strong financial position 
with healthy reserves. This financial prudence allows the City to maintain current service levels, invest in necessary 
improvements, and continue funding important capital projects for the upcoming fiscal year without having to take 
drastic measures in response to the current revenue uncertainties. 
 
However, the City’s General Fund ten-year forecast, which is included in this proposed budget, has highlighted the 
long-term financial challenges we face. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
11
755 of 1111

--- page 756 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
Table 2: General Fund Ten-Year Forecast – Middle-Ground Scenario (in millions) 
 
The forecast, based on the middle-ground forecasting scenario, assumes that the State and the County will reach an 
agreement to fix the VLF funding issue, making VLF revenues more reliable, while potentially reduced. This forecast 
also assumes the City sets aside $25 million of its overall reserves to the CIP Investment Reserve in FY 25-26. Under 
this scenario, the City can maintain its service levels for a few more years. However, as the table shows, in four years, 
if economic conditions do not improve and no actions are taken to address the budget imbalance, we may risk 
depleting the City’s Budget Stabilization and Pension Stabilization Reserves.  Furthermore, by the fifth year, our 
General Fund balance may fall short of maintaining the 15% Contingency Reserve. 
 
To balance the budget, the strategy is straightforward – increase revenues and/or reduce spending. Given the current 
economic uncertainty and unresolved VLF shortfall issue, our revenues are expected to remain flat with only moderate 
annual growth. This growth will be insufficient to keep pace with our expenditures. To maintain the City’s fiscal 
sustainability, the City is evaluating all the potential revenue enhancement and expense reduction options. Revenue 
enhancement options include nurturing the economic health of our local businesses, supporting the development of 
new housing units, reviewing and optimizing fee increases, seeking grant funding, assessing new revenue 
opportunities, and considering potential future revenue ballot measures. At the same time, the City may employ 
citywide cost containment strategies to reduce expenses, such as reducing discretionary spending, cutting non-
essential programs, implementing hiring freezes, eliminating current vacancies, reducing future vacancies through 
attrition, and/or implementing furloughs with corresponding service reductions. Additionally, investment in capital 
projects may be reduced or deferred.   
 
Several variables will impact our financial outlook in the coming years. If the housing market rebounds, our tax 
revenue forecast may improve. If inflation returns to the Federal Reserve’s 2% target, it will ease some of the rising 
cost pressures we are currently facing. Also, as long as the current economic uncertainties are managed and we 
continue to avoid a recession, the City has time to prepare for improved financial sustainability. And we will continue 
to advocate for VLF funding and look for a long-term solution. While we must be prepared for the worst, we hope that 
these factors, will turn in our favor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10-YEAR FORECAST
GENERAL FUND
2024-25 
Estimates
2025-26 
2026-27 
2027-28 
2028-29 
2029-30 
2030-31 
2031-32 
2032-33 
2033-34 
2034-35 
REVENUES
Total Revenues
173.9
         
175.8
      
180.5
      
182.8
      
190.0
      
195.0
      
195.1
      
203.1
      
211.7
      
216.6
      
224.0
      
EXPENDITURES
Operating Expenses
166.2
         
171.9
      
178.1
      
182.9
      
189.9
      
195.5
      
200.3
      
204.6
      
209.7
      
213.8
      
218.8
      
Transfers to CIP
8.1
              
8.9
          
6.4
          
6.4
          
6.4
          
6.5
          
6.5
          
6.5
          
6.5
          
6.8
          
6.8
          
Transfers Out - Debt Service & Other
6.0
              
3.5
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
3.4
          
Total Expenditures
180.3
         
184.3
      
187.8
      
192.7
      
199.7
      
205.3
      
210.1
      
214.5
      
219.6
      
223.9
      
229.0
      
Surplus / (Deficit)
(6.4)
(8.5)
(7.3)
(9.9)
(9.7)
(10.4)
(15.0)
(11.4)
(7.8)
(7.3)
(4.9)
General Fund - Beginning Fund Balance
117.9
111.5
78.0
70.8
60.8
51.2
40.8
25.8
14.4
6.5
(0.8)
Transfer to Capital Invesment Reserve
(25.0)
General Fund - Ending Fund Balance
$111.5
$78.0
$70.8
$60.8
$51.2
$40.8
$25.8
$14.4
$6.5
($0.8)
($5.8)
12
756 of 1111

--- page 757 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget 
 
Future of San Mateo 
Despite the challenges, we are excited about the great momentum and positive steps we are taking to improve the 
quality of life for our residents, businesses and visitors. Some of these improvements and initiatives include the new 
wastewater treatment plant coming online this year, the new upcoming Central Park Playground, East Hillsdale Park 
improvements, Marina Library modernization, the police’s successful retail task force and establishment of a new Real 
Time Information Center, transportation and street resurfacing projects, pedestrian mall enhancements and hosting 
new cultural celebrations. Looking ahead, we’ll soon adopt a new Strategic Plan focused on housing, transportation, 
infrastructure, climate resiliency and essential services— priorities shaped by the community’s and Council’s input. 
This plan will help us implement the recently adopted General Plan 2040 while creating a sustainable business plan. In 
the coming year, I remain focused on attracting and retaining top talent, strengthening communications, and 
deepening community engagement. I invite you to stay involved, share your insights, and help shape San Mateo’s 
future.  
 
Closing Remarks 
Through the budget process, it is my goal to provide you with a thoughtful, strategic, and informative budget plan that 
aligns with the City Council’s priorities and addresses the community’s needs. As we navigate the uncertainties of an 
evolving economy, we remain committed to utilizing our resources to provide great levels of service to our community 
and make immediate investments in our infrastructure while upholding fiscal discipline and building resiliency to 
withstand the challenges we face. By engaging stakeholders, exploring new revenue streams, and continuing to focus 
on achieving operational efficiencies, we are positioned to address our long-term financial challenges while still 
providing essential city services to our residents. Together, we will continue to build a vibrant and resilient community 
now and into the future. 
 
The development and delivery of the proposed budget to the Council is the culmination of months of work from staff 
throughout the organization, and it is a true team effort. I would like to thank the City Council for articulating a vision 
and setting priorities that helped us develop the budget. I would also like to thank my executive team, along with their 
respective staff members, for their efforts in supporting the budget development process. My thanks also go to the 
members of the Finance Department, Finance Director Karen Huang, Deputy Director of Finance Abby Veeser, Budget 
Manager Renee Halcon, Senior Accounting Assistant Samantha Wong and Accounting Manager Ha Tran, who drove 
the process to develop the budget and prepare this budget document. Finally, I commend Public Works Director Matt 
Fabry, Deputy Director of Public Works Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Director of Public Works Katherine Sheehan, and 
Business Manager Jamie Perez for their overall management of the capital budget and long-term capital plan. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Alex Khojikian 
City Manager 
13
757 of 1111

--- page 758 ---
City Overview
14
758 of 1111

--- page 759 ---
City Council Vision
San Mateo
•
Is a pre-eminent City between San Francisco and San Jose.
•
Has strong, attractive commercial areas and viable, wholesome neighborhoods.
•
Has a solid, healthy economic and financial base that cultivates innovation and technology.
•
Includes its diverse population in all facets of community life and is a nurturing place for youth.
•
Is safe and has well maintained infrastructure.
•
Is the cultural center of the County.
•
Is increasingly sustainable and a leader in reducing carbon emissions.
To achieve this vision, the San Mateo City Government will:             
•
Facilitate the effective functioning and development of the community and its citizens.
•
Ensure all elements of the community are well represented in the government process.
•
Serve as both a facilitator and a provider in seeing that community needs and desires are addressed through the most
appropriate, effective delivery system whether it is public, non-public, or public/private partnership.
•
Serve as a consensus builder in the community and articulate collective direction.
•
Maintain a responsive, capable staff dedicated to serving the community in a non-bureaucratic manner and provide
high value for the expenditure of public funds.
•
Look to the long-term future of the community and seek constant improvement, including increasing sustainability and
reducing the community's carbon footprint.
•
Be a full partner in the sharing of common services and regional affairs that affect the City.
15
759 of 1111

--- page 760 ---
City Council Strategic Direction
The strategic directions express key targets that must be accomplished to achieve its vision. These strategic directions are:
Safe, Clean, and Attractive Neighborhoods
•
Ensure higher levels of public safety, especially in neighborhoods under the most stress.
•
Enhance the quality of residential neighborhoods by encouraging improved appearance and more community
involvement.
Successful Businesses and a Solid Tax Base
•
Increase the economic vitality of the City with strengthened ties between business and the general community.
A Community Where Residents Can Flourish and Youth are Nurtured
•
Continue to encourage involvement of youth in our community by improving programs for children, pre-teens, and
teens.
•
Continue to support efforts to improve access to and affordability of early childhood care and education.
Orderly Planning, Development, and Functioning of the Community
•
Support future growth and redevelopment in Downtown, other commercial areas, and along the transportation
corridor to ensure a well-planned environment and promote a high quality of life.
•
Continue efforts to increase entry-level housing, strive for a balance between jobs and housing, and provide
incentives for City employees to live in San Mateo.
•
Continue to invest in the long-term infrastructure needs of the City and create an identity for San Mateo that generates
civic pride and responsibility.
An Open, Participative, and Effective City Government
•
Continue to provide cost-effective and quality services that are accessible to all segments of the San Mateo
community.
•
Maintain City finances where expenses do not exceed ongoing revenues.
•
Expand community outreach and participation opportunities for all who live and/or work in San Mateo.
•
Continue to cooperate with regional partners, schools, and other agencies to improve infrastructure and services,
strengthen partnerships, avoid duplication, and decrease costs.
•
Develop and maintain an organization that values employee participation and a sense of ownership.
16
760 of 1111

--- page 761 ---
City Council Priorities
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year:
•
Develop and implement an ordinance to prohibit the
use of gas leaf blowers within the City of San Mateo.
•
Youth Service Officers at Schools – funding program
•
Develop City Council Code of conduct with
measurable consequences akin to the San Mateo
County Board of Supervisors language with
enforcement
•
Develop policy on regulating mobile vending/food
trucks
•
Establish Senior Hubs at MLK and Beresford Senior
Centers
•
Deliver the Clean Water Program
•
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response
Management or 311 system.
•
Implement Phase 1 of the Central Park Master Plan.
•
Address structural issues at the Marina Library.
•
Explore piloting a City Grant Fund.
•
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by
2030
•
Create a comprehensive, ongoing Citywide
Community Outreach and Engagement Program
•
Create a Capital Infrastructure Plan or process for
reinvesting in infrastructure to allow the City to
evaluate City facilities and assets when upgrades are
needed
•
Explore a resolution affirming the City's commitment
to integrate new technologies, such as artificial
intelligence (AI), without displacing work force
•
Conduct an Annual Transportation Review of progress
on all ongoing plans, including project updates and
key metrics such as City mode share, collision and
safety data
•
Complete Speed Surveys
•
Explore limiting overnight RV Parking in commercial
corridors
•
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with
Sustainable San Mateo and Peninsula Clean Energy in
"Charge Forward San Mateo”
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years:
•
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
•
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated
revenue from Measure CC.
•
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency
preparedness.
•
Implement the adopted General Plan.
•
Implement Housing Element Policies.
•
Reconstruct all failed streets identified in the Smooth
Streets program in San Mateo by 2026.
•
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve
safety and reliability of the street light system.
•
Implement a robust, year-round Downtown Activation
Program as part of our core City services.
•
Explore how the City of San Mateo could partner with
the San Mateo Union High School District, San Mateo-
Foster City School District and other public, private
and nonprofit organizations to support "Empower San
Mateo"               
•
Prioritize planning, design, construction and
maintenance of rapid safety improvement projects
citywide and ensure there is a reliable City fund for
long term success.
•
Improve and strengthen democratic systems and
decrease polarization.
•
Work with schools, community colleges, businesses,
and other organizations to expand youth and
senior workforce development & civic leadership
opportunities.
•
Commission a citywide feasibility study for groups of
San Mateo businesses interested in forming business
improvement districts (BIDs)
•
Explore and evaluate allowing a retail cannabis
storefront in downtown
•
Develop a Climate Adaptation Plan to establish a
comprehensive strategy for resiliency and adaptation
against sea level rise and flooding to ensure we are
well poised for funding opportunities and include
Foster City and Burlingame in planning efforts.
•
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at
City at-grade crossings.
17
761 of 1111

--- page 762 ---
Items to be Completed in 5 or More Years:
•
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection,
drainage, and storage system, including dredging the
Marina lagoon.
•
Implement a Green Fleet by 2035.
•
Expedite efforts to provide high quality effluent from
the wastewater treatment plant upgrades to support
the future production of potable water.
•
Study resource feasibility for the downtown
grade separations and long-term train corridor
improvements.
•
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard.
•
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian
Master Plan with the goal of prioritizing quick-build
projects where feasible.
•
Expedite efforts to improve and build climate
resiliency into the City’s stormwater collection,
conveyance, flood control, and levee systems,
including dredging the Marina lagoon.
City Council Priorities
18
762 of 1111

--- page 763 ---
Mission
Serving the San Mateo community 
through collaboration, innovation, 
and professionalism
Values
Respect, Creativity, Integrity, 
Transparency, Inclusivity
Organizational Principles
Engaged and accountable workforce
Working as one organization
Maintaining long-term perspective
Seeking constant improvement
 Leading through informed risk-taking
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORGANIZATIONAL VISION
19
763 of 1111

--- page 764 ---
City Profile
Location
The City of San Mateo is located in San Mateo County, on 
the Peninsula in the San Francisco Bay Area. It is bordered 
by Burlingame to the north, Foster City to the east, Belmont 
to the south, and Hillsborough to the west. The City is 
conveniently situated 19 miles south of San Francisco and 
30 miles north of San Jose. It covers an area of 15.4 square 
miles, including 3.87 square miles of tidelands from the San 
Francisco Bay to the east and a range of coastal mountains 
to the west.
The City
The City was incorporated in 1894 and was originally 
chartered in 1922. The current charter was adopted in 
1971 and revised in 2002. San Mateo has a Council-
Manager form of government. The City shifted from Council 
members being elected at-large to districts beginning 
in the November 2022 election, where three of the five 
districts were open. The remaining two district positions 
were open and elected in November 2024. The Council 
selects a Mayor from among its members each December 
for a one-year term. The Mayor and City Council serve 
as the legislative and policy making body of the City. The 
City Manager, appointed by the Council, serves as chief 
executive officer and is responsible for the day-to-day 
administration of City affairs. The City Council also appoints 
a City Attorney. There are twelve Advisory Boards and 
Commissions.
Services
The City provides a full range of municipal services. 
These include police, planning, building, sewer, street 
maintenance, and general administrative services. Fire 
service is provided by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department. Water is provided to the residents of the 
City of San Mateo by California Water Services, a private 
company. The City operates and maintains facilities for 
wastewater treatment. In addition, the City offers thirty-five 
parks, six recreation centers, three libraries, and an 18-hole 
golf course. The San Mateo Performing Arts Center hosts 
productions by numerous local, regional, and international 
artistic enterprises, including the Peninsula Ballet Theatre, 
the Peninsula Civic Light Opera, and the Peninsula 
Symphony. San Mateo has abundant shopping areas, 
including two major regional shopping centers, Hillsdale 
Shopping Mall, and Bridgepointe.
Population and Demographic 
Characteristic
Based on the California Department of Finance, the City’s 
population as of 2024 was just over 103,000, which 
represents about 15.20% of the countywide population. 
Also based on the most recent U.S. Census data, per capita 
personal income for San Mateo residents was $78,990, 
which is slightly above the amount for San Mateo County 
as a whole ($77,741) and well above the value for the State 
of California ($45,591). According to the Employment 
Development Department, the City's unemployment rate is 
3.3%, which is the same as the County's unemployment rate 
at 3.3%.
20
764 of 1111

--- page 765 ---
City Profile
Local Economy
San Mateo is centrally located in the San Francisco Bay 
Area and has direct access to interstate highways, rail 
lines, a trans-bay bridge, public transit routes, and the 
San Francisco International Airport. San Mateo serves 
as a center of commercial and residential activity. The 
Transit Center is a multi-modal transportation hub allowing 
people to board Caltrain to destinations as far north as San 
Francisco and as far south as Gilroy.
The community is comprised of residences of all types 
and at a range of costs, major retail and commercial 
establishments, a downtown transit center, a community 
college, and two major medical centers. It is also the 
home of the San Mateo County Events Center. The robust 
economy has renewed interest in the downtown area, 
which continues to attract quality small- to medium-sized 
businesses. The main City Library, completed in 2006, 
is the cultural center of the City and benefits many local 
and regional patrons. The Police Station, completed in 
2009, serves as the headquarters to protect and serve the 
residents in the City.
City Statistical Data
Miscellaneous statistical data for the City of San Mateo is as 
follows:
Date of Incorporation
1894
Form of Government
Council-Manager
Area in Square Miles
15.4
Capital Assets
6 Community Centers
3 Libraries
36 Parks
1 Golf Course
1 Police Station
6 Fire Stations
204 miles of streets / 7,500 street lights 
260 miles of sanitary sewers
148 miles of storm drains
Median Age of Residents
39.4
Public School Enrollment
19,323
Top Employers
County of San Mateo Medical Center 
San Mateo-Foster City Unified School District
Sony Interactive Entertainment
San Mateo Union High School District 
San Mateo Community College District
Franklin Templeton Investor
21
765 of 1111

--- page 766 ---
City Organizational Chart
POLICE
OPERATING DEPARTMENTS
CITY MANAGER
CITY CLERK
CITY ATTORNEY
CITY COUNCIL
COMMUNITY OF SAN MATEO
BOARDS & COMMISSIONS
Civic Arts Committee
Community Relations Commission
Investment Advisory Committee
Library Board
Measure S Oversight Committee
Mosquito and Vector Control District
Parks & Recreation Commission
Personnel Board
Planning Commission
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Youth Advisory Council
Mayor
Deputy Mayor
Council Member
Council Member
Council Member
City Manager
City Attorney
City Council
Rob Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Alex Khojikian
Prasanna Rasiah
Assistant City Manager 
City Clerk
City Librarian
Community Development Director
Finance Director
Human Resources Director 
Information Technology Director
Parks and Recreation Director
Police Chief
Public Works Director
Department Heads
Christina Horrisberger
Martin McTaggart
Rukshana Singh 
Zach Dahl
Karen Huang
Aracelia Esparza 
Pete Owen
Joanne Magrini
Ed Barberini
Matt Fabry
PUBLIC 
WORKS
COMMUNITY  
DEVELOPMENT
LIBRARY
PARKS &
RECREATION
FINANCE
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
HUMAN
RESOURCES
22
766 of 1111

--- page 767 ---
Basis of Budgeting
Fund Accounting Budget System
The City of San Mateo’s budget is organized on the 
basis of the fund accounting system, in which each fund 
is considered a separate budgeting entity. Government 
resources are allocated to and expenses accounted for 
in individual funds based upon the purposes for which 
they are to be spent and the means by which spending 
activities are controlled. All operating funds’ budgets lapse 
at the end of the adoption cycle. The capital projects fund 
appropriations are valid for the life of the projects. The City 
also maintains an encumbrance accounting system as one 
technique of accomplishing budgetary control. Encumbered 
amounts in the operating budget lapse one year after 
the end of the fiscal year. There is no formal provision in 
departmental budgets for depreciation and compensated 
absences (i.e. accrued vacation and sick leave time), but 
they are budgeted as internal services fund charges. The 
following fund types are used by the City:
Governmental Fund Types
All governmental fund budgets are accounted for using 
a current financial resources measurement focus and a 
modified accrual basis.
General Fund
This fund accounts for all financial resources not required 
to be accounted for in other funds, and is the general 
operating fund of the City. The General Fund has four sub-
funds: the Measure S Tracking sub-fund, the Downtown 
Services sub-fund, the Recreation Services sub-fund, and 
the Golf sub-fund.
Special Revenue Funds
These funds account for the City’s revenues from sources 
which, by law or administrative action, are designated to 
finance particular functions or activities other than capital 
projects or expendable trusts.
Debt Service Funds
These funds account for the accumulation of financial 
resources for and the payment of principal, interest, and 
related costs on general long-term debt.
Capital Programs Funds
These funds account for financial resources to be used 
for the acquisition or construction of major capital facilities 
(other than those financed by Proprietary Fund Types).
Proprietary Fund Types
All proprietary fund budgets are accounted for on a flow of 
economic resources measurement focus and a full accrual 
basis.
Enterprise Funds
This fund accounts for operations of the City that are 
financed and operated in a manner similar to private 
business enterprises.
Internal Service Funds
These funds account for the financing of services provided 
by one department to other departments on a cost- 
reimbursement basis.
Budgetary Controls
Effective July 1, 1986, the City implemented a two-year 
budget cycle. The two-year budget process requires that 
each department submit two one-year expenditure plans 
and revenue estimates to the City Council for approval. 
Only the first of the two years’ budget will be adopted. In 
each alternate year, City staff makes recommendations to 
the City Council for amending the second-year plan. In any 
budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing economic 
and/or operational conditions, the City may choose to 
develop one-year instead of two-year budget plans. 
The Department Heads are responsible for containing 
expenditures within their budgeted appropriations as 
approved by the City Council. Subsequent to the adoption 
of the budget, all additional changes to the budget require 
City Council approval.
Activities of the General Fund, Special Revenue Funds, 
Debt Service Funds, Proprietary, and Capital Funds are 
included in the annual budget. The level of budgetary 
control is the department within each fund.
23
767 of 1111

--- page 768 ---
Budget Preparation Timeline
July Through September
•
Departments report out on performance and workload
indicators from the previous fiscal year.
•
Encumbrances and capital project carryovers are
incorporated into department budgets and long-term
financial plans of each applicable fund.
•
Preliminary financial results from the previous fiscal
year are reported to Council.
•
Initial scoping meetings are held between Department
Heads and the City Manager to discuss any significant
changes to the departmental operating or capital
budget that will be proposed for the upcoming cycle.
October Through December
•
Schedule for the development of the following
fiscal year’s budget is established and distributed to
departments.
•
Final financial results from the previous fiscal year,
in the form of the Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report, are presented to Council.
•
Development of internal service charges and cost
allocations begins.
•
Budget direction and guidance are provided to
departments.
Like any large, complex organization, the process to develop and produce the budget is continuous throughout the fiscal 
year, which runs from July 1 to June 30. The major activities and milestones are as follows:
January Through March
•
City Council holds its annual goal setting session to
identify budget priorities.
•
Annual mid-year financial report is delivered to
Council.
•
Departmental operating and/or capital budget
requests are received and evaluated by Finance and
the City Manager’s Office.
•
Revenue projections for major General Fund tax
revenues are finalized.
April Through June
•
City Council approves Master Fee Schedule during a
public hearing.
•
Long-term financial plans for applicable funds are
finalized.
•
Study session is held with Council to introduce
major components of the budget and receive final
feedback and guidance prior to the delivery of the
recommended budget.
•
City Council holds two public hearings on the
recommended budget.
•
Final budget adopted by the City Council.
24
768 of 1111

--- page 769 ---
Budget Preparation Process
2025-26 Budget Development Process
The City is on a two-year budget cycle, and it alternates its budget preparation focus between the operating budget and the 
capital budget. For the development of the 2025-26 budget, the focus was on the capital budget. The final service level set 
for 2024-25 was maintained for the 2025-26 budget. As such, updates to the 2025-26 operating budget primarily focused 
on adjusting salary and benefits amounts to accommodate changes in costs, as well as updating General Fund revenues to 
reflect revised projections.  
The development of the 2025-26 budget began in the second half of calendar year 2024, as the Capital Improvement 
Program (CIP) Committee convened to scope out the plan for collecting, evaluating, and funding the projects included 
in the 5-year CIP. This committee consists of the City Manager, Assistant City Manager, Finance Director, Public Works 
Director, and Parks and Recreation Director. The collection phase of the process consisted of evaluating the status of the 
currently budgeted projects in the 5-year CIP, inventorying all existing unfunded projects, and identifying any new capital 
requests. Once that was completed, the departments, primarily Public Works and Parks and Recreation, updated cost 
estimates for all existing projects, funded and unfunded, and established initial estimates for new capital projects. The CIP 
Committee then developed an initial list of priority projects for funding, which predominantly consisted of existing projects 
that had been previously slated for funding. In parallel, staff from Finance, Public Works, and Parks and Recreation updated 
revenue estimated from the various project funding sources to determine the overall capacity to fund priority projects. The 
CIP Committee utilized this information to then make final funding decisions on projects for the 2025-30 5-year CIP. This 
process concluded in mid-March, and once the final determinations were made on funded and unfunded projects, staff 
began the process of updating project charters and project financials for inclusion into the budget document.  
In mid-April, staff presented City Council with a preview of the recommended budget which primarily focused on General 
Fund revenues. Staff incorporated Council feedback and finalized numbers for the 2025-26 budget, which included five- 
and ten-year financial plans for each of the applicable funds. Attention then turned towards the design and creation of the 
budget document. The proposed 2025-26 budget document was delivered at the first City Council meeting in June and 
public hearings were held adopted the final budget adopted before June 30.
25
769 of 1111

--- page 770 ---
GFOA Financial Reporting Award
Government Finance Officers Association
Certificate of 
Achievement
for Excellence
in Financial 
Reporting
Presented to
City of San Mateo
California
For its Annual Comprehensive
Financial Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2023
Executive Director/CEO
26
770 of 1111

--- page 771 ---
PRESENTED TO
City of San Mateo
California
For the Fiscal Year Beginning
July 01, 2024
Executive Director
GOVERNMENT FINANCE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
Distinguished
Budget Presentation
Award
GFOA Budget Award
27
771 of 1111

--- page 772 ---
CSMFO Budget Award
California Society of Municipal 
Finance Officers 
Certificate of Award 
Operating Budget Excellence Award 
 Fiscal Year 2024-2025 
Presented to the 
City of San Mateo 
For meeting the criteria established to achieve a CSMFO Award in Budgeting. 
February 7, 2025 
Ernie Reyna 
James Russell-Field, Chair 
2024 CSMFO President 
Recognition Committee 
Dedicated to Excellence in Municipal Financial Reporting 
28
772 of 1111

--- page 773 ---
Budget Overview
29
773 of 1111

--- page 774 ---
Citywide Sources of Funding
CATEGORY
2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Property Tax
 $       85,340,000  $       90,822,000 
Sales Tax
          34,201,512           32,312,001 
Property Transfer Tax
            8,000,000             8,600,000 
Transient Occupancy Tax
            4,700,000             4,746,000 
Business License Tax
            7,750,000             8,000,000 
Franchises
            3,350,000             3,430,000 
Bond and Loan Proceeds
975,000 
549,473 
Building and Other Permits
          12,439,000             7,665,450 
Capital Contribution
            6,282,972             4,114,550 
Charges for Services
        104,472,338         108,287,708 
Department In Lieu Payments
            6,720,000             6,870,896 
Fines, Forfeitures, and Penalties
            2,113,000             2,113,000 
Impact Fees
            2,728,197             8,679,708 
Intergovernmental
          23,503,181           15,300,281 
Investment Income
            8,326,950           12,162,446 
Special Assessments
            4,103,000             4,062,000 
Other
            1,972,194             3,030,312 
Total Citywide Sources of Funding
 $     316,977,344 
 $     320,745,825 
*Fees and Charges include charges for services; fines, forfeitures, and penalties; franchises; impact fees; special assessments.
**Tax Revenues include property tax, sales tax, property transfer tax, transient occupancy tax, business license tax.
2%
1%
2%
40%
5%
4%
45%
1%
CITYWIDE SOURCES OF FUNDING 
2025-26 ($320.8 MILLION)
Building and Other Permits
Capital Contribution
Department In Lieu Payments
Fees and Charges
Intergovernmental
Investment Income
Tax Revenues
Other
30
774 of 1111

--- page 775 ---
Citywide Sources of Funding
FUND
 2023-24 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
General Funds
General
 $         140,389,551  $         148,964,931  $         154,028,761 
Measure S Tracking
7,314,000 
7,300,000 
7,100,000 
Downtown Services
2,362,966 
4,251,000 
4,251,000 
Recreation Services
3,571,224 
4,233,057 
4,801,000 
Golf
3,240,250 
3,473,500 
3,343,500 
General Funds Total
 $         156,877,991  $         168,222,488  $         173,524,261 
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants and Safety
 $
569,539  $             1,747,137  $             1,202,000 
Solid Waste
3,432,160 
4,004,609 
3,738,000 
HOME
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
Community Development Block Grant
704,000 
740,000 
740,000 
Advance Planning
1,842,000 
2,044,760 
2,050,000 
Construction Services
8,820,100 
9,241,100 
9,467,550 
Gas Tax
3,030,448 
3,051,959 
3,089,188 
City Housing
34,000 
66,000 
66,000 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
287,000 
289,190 
291,446 
Parks and Recreation Revenue
10,967,136 
237,000 
4,692,000 
Traffic Impact Fee
2,537,482 
2,428,197 
1,349,708 
Commercial Linkage Fee
125,000 
5,000,000 
2,550,000 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA)
2,631,190 
2,884,904 
3,063,176 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
500,000 
300,000 
224,653 
Landfill 
655,000 
680,000 
680,000 
Special Revenue Funds Total
 $           36,150,055  $           32,729,856  $           33,218,721 
Debt Service Funds
General Obligation Bonds
 $             2,148,050  $             1,460,000  $             1,590,000 
2% Hotel Tax
1,000,000 
700,000 
748,000 
Debt Service Funds Total
 $             3,148,050  $             2,160,000  $             2,338,000 
Capital Programs Funds
Capital Projects
 $           12,764,825  $           17,201,533  $           10,958,293  
d
Capital Programs Funds Total
 $           12,764,825  $           17,201,533  $           10,958,293 
Enterprise Funds
Storm
 $
-
$             4,050,000  $             4,216,000 
Sewer
86,246,900 
91,895,466 
95,720,550 
Enterprise Funds Total
 $           86,246,900  $           95,945,466  $           99,936,550 
Internal Service Funds*
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
 $             2,190,909  $             2,161,585  $             2,208,896 
Fleet and Building Maintenance
5,852,465 
5,778,693 
6,140,490 
Benefits
44,802,199 
47,921,301 
51,055,072 
Dental
785,000 
756,000 
779,000 
Workers’  Compensation
4,110,000 
4,699,000 
2,900,000 
Comprehensive Liability
2,825,000 
3,700,000 
5,200,000 
Internal Service Funds Total
 $           60,565,573  $           65,016,579  $           68,283,459 
Total City Operating Budget
 $         295,187,821  $         316,977,344  $         320,745,825 
*For Internal Service Funds, only investment income in included in the Total Citywide Sources of Funding.
31
775 of 1111

--- page 776 ---
Citywide Operating Budget
2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Attorney
 $             1,671,143  $             1,758,600 
City Clerk
1,153,719 
1,097,892 
City Council
456,520 
563,805 
City Manager
3,403,190 
3,709,851 
Community Development
17,046,225 
17,645,171 
Finance
4,503,342 
4,557,625 
Human Resources
2,593,709 
2,905,669 
Information Technology
5,198,308 
5,379,838 
Library
9,811,801 
10,024,450 
Parks and Recreation
22,592,600 
23,519,690 
Police
65,267,789 
68,085,027 
Public Works
52,530,283 
53,347,931 
SMC Fire Contribution 
28,747,664 
31,047,477 
SMC Fire Legacy Costs
7,348,287 
7,714,056 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
36,095,951 
38,761,533 
Non-Departmental
33,520,867 
40,617,834 
 $     255,845,447 
 $     271,974,917 
*Department totals shown in millions
* Citywide Administration includes these departments: City Attorney, City Clerk, City Council, City Manager, Finance, Human Resources and IT.
DEPARTMENT
Totals do not include internal services.
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution
and Fire Legacy Costs
Citywide Administration*
Community Development
Library
Public Works
Non-Departmental
$40.6 
$38.8 
$53.3 
$68.1 
$23.5 
$10.0 
$17.6 
$20.0 
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
CITYWIDE OPERATIONS BY DEPARTMENT
2025-26  ($272.0 MILLION)
Parks and Recreation
Police
32
776 of 1111

--- page 777 ---
Citywide Operating Budget
2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Salaries and Wages
 $
77,305,816  $
76,773,678 
Benefits
47,481,649 
49,313,916 
Operating
94,962,031 
107,125,790 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
36,095,951 
38,761,533 
Total City Operating Budget
255,845,447
$           
271,974,917
$           
CATEGORY
Totals do not include internal services.
28%
18%
39%
14%
CITYWIDE OPERATIONS BY CATEGORY
2025-26  ($272.0 MILLION)
Salaries and Wages
Benefits
Operating
San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department Contribution and
Fire Legacy Costs
33
777 of 1111

--- page 778 ---
Citywide Operating Budget
FUND
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
General Funds
General
 $        148,694,170  $        154,447,500 
Measure S Tracking
2,334,601 
2,161,116 
Measure CC Tracking
-
200,000
Housing Set-Aside
583,499 
86,237 
Downtown Services
4,538,937 
4,496,506 
Recreation Services
9,738,915              10,241,361 
Golf
3,464,503 
3,747,764 
General Funds Total
 $        169,354,626  $        175,380,484 
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants and Safety
 $            1,732,239  $            1,610,043 
Solid Waste
3,711,768 
4,858,292 
HOME
10,000 
10,000 
Community Development Block Grant
504,175 
488,356 
Advance Planning
1,901,347 
2,357,167 
Construction Services
             13,996,787              14,507,442 
City Housing
228,500 
253,500 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
146,311 
368,428 
Parks and Recreation Revenue
17,726 
18,258 
Commercial Linkage Fee
5,338 
40,498 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
309,303 
224,653 
Landfill 
107,814 
101,193 
Special Revenue Funds Total
 $          22,671,308  $          24,837,830 
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
 $            2,693,045  $            2,697,954 
General Obligation Bonds
2,124,106 
2,135,229 
2% Hotel Tax
1,079,144 
997,768 
Debt Service Funds Total
 $            5,896,295  $            5,830,951 
Enterprise Funds
Storm
 $
-
$            1,324,410 
Sewer
             57,923,218              64,601,242 
Enterprise Funds Total
 $          57,923,218  $          65,925,652 
Total City Operating Budget
 $        255,845,447  $        271,974,917 
Internal Service Funds*
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
 $          10,600,790  $          11,819,511 
Fleet and Building Maintenance
6,183,665 
6,245,353 
Benefits
             47,672,604              50,793,636 
Dental
823,000 
855,000 
Workers’  Compensation
4,412,299 
4,470,554 
Comprehensive Liability
4,037,792 
5,184,430 
Internal Service Funds Total
 $          73,730,151  $          79,368,485 
* Informational figures only.  Not included in totals since they are already included in departmental budgets.
34
778 of 1111

--- page 779 ---
Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Budget
CIP BUDGET
2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Total City Transfers
66,590,943
$ 
  
64,550,893
$ 
  
Less Capital Improvement Projects Transfers
46,054,000
  
51,944,000
  
Total Operating Transfers
20,536,943
$ 
  
12,606,893
$ 
  
Total Capital Improvement Projects Transfers
46,054,000
$ 
  
51,944,000
$ 
  
Add Capital Improvement Projects Revenue & Fund Balance
19,194,363
  
9,596,857
  
Total Capital Improvement Projects Budget
65,248,363
$ 
  
61,540,857
$ 
  
10%
5%
43%
1%
24%
17%
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS BUDGET
2025-26 ($61.5 MILLION)
General Fund
Measure S
Sewer Fund (Clean Water
Program)
Stormwater Fee
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
Other Sources
35
779 of 1111

--- page 780 ---
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
In
Out
General Fund
From Measure S Tracking Fund
339,032
$
 
-
$
 
From Construction Services Fund
530,000
 
- 
From Gas Tax Fund
1,747,500
 
- 
To Housing Set Aside Reserve Fund
- 
1,100,000
 
To 2% Hotel Tax Fund
- 
350,000
 
To Downtown Services Fund
- 
- 
To Recreation Services Fund
- 
5,440,361
 
To Capital Projects Fund
- 
5,050,000
 
To Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
- 
410,000
 
Total
2,616,532
$             
12,350,361
$           
Measure S Tracking Fund
To General Fund
-
$
 
339,032
$
 
To Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund
- 
2,690,000
 
To Capital Projects Fund
- 
3,000,000
 
Total
-
$
 
6,029,032
$
 
Measure CC Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
- 
875,000
 
Total
-
$
 
875,000
$
 
Housing Set Aside Fund
From General Fund
1,100,000
$             
-
$
 
Total
1,100,000
$             
-
$
 
Downtown Services Fund
From General Fund
-
$
 
-
$
 
Total
-
$
 
-
$
 
Recreation Services Fund
From General Fund
5,440,361
$             
-
$
 
Total
5,440,361
$             
-
$
 
Community Development Block Grant Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
617,000
$
 
Total
-
$
 
617,000
$
 
Construction Services Fund
To General Fund
-
$
 
530,000
$
 
To Capital Projects Fund
- 
390,000
 
Total
-
$
 
920,000
$
 
Gas Tax Fund
To General Fund
-
$
 
1,747,500
$             
To Capital Projects Fund
- 
1,253,000
 
Total
-
$
 
3,000,500
$             
Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
2,250,000
$             
Total
-
$
 
2,250,000
$             
Traffic Impact Fee Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
850,000
$
 
Total
-
$
 
850,000
$
 
2025-26 PROPOSED BUDGET
Transfer
FUND
36
780 of 1111

--- page 781 ---
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
In
Out
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
2,700,000
$             
Total
-
$
 
2,700,000
$             
Landfill Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
1,120,000
$             
Total
-
$
 
1,120,000
$             
Street and Flood Control Project Fund
From Measure S Tracking Fund
2,690,000
$             
-
$
 
Total
2,690,000
$             
-
$
 
2% Hotel Tax Fund
From General Fund
350,000
$
 
-
$
 
Total
350,000
$
 
-
$
 
Storm Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
3,400,000
$             
Total
-
$
 
3,400,000
$             
Sewer Fund
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
29,639,000
$           
Total
-
$
 
29,639,000
$           
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
From General Fund
410,000
$
 
-
$
 
To Capital Projects Fund
-
$
 
800,000
$
 
Total
410,000
$
 
800,000
$
 
Workers' Compensation Fund
To Comprehensive Liability Fund
-
$
 
-
$
 
Total
-
$
 
-
$
 
Comprehensive Liability Fund
From Workers Comp Fund
-
$
 
-
$
 
Total
-
$
 
-
$
 
Capital Projects Fund
From General Fund
5,050,000
$             
-
$
 
From Measure S Tracking Fund
3,000,000
 
- 
From Measure CC Fund
875,000
 
- 
From CDBG
617,000
 
- 
From Construction Services Fund
390,000
 
- 
From Gas Tax Fund
1,253,000
 
- 
From Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
2,250,000
 
- 
From Traffic Impact Fee Fund
850,000
 
- 
From Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund
2,700,000
 
- 
From Landfill Fund
1,120,000
 
- 
From Storm Fund
3,400,000
 
- 
From Sewer Fund
29,639,000
             
- 
From Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
800,000
 
- 
Total
51,944,000
$           
-
$
 
 Total City Transfers 
 $          64,550,893  $          64,550,893 
2025-26 PROPOSED BUDGET
Transfer
FUND
37
781 of 1111

--- page 782 ---
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Personnel
2024-25
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
All Funds
All Funds
By Department
City Attorney
5.00
 
5.00
 
City Clerk
4.75
 
4.75
 
City Council 
5.00
 
5.00
 
City Manager
9.48
 
9.48
 
Community Development
57.92
 
57.92
 
Finance
18.00
 
18.00
 
Human Resources
11.48
 
12.48
 
Information Technology
14.23
 
14.23
 
Library
53.16
 
49.23
 
Parks and Recreation
116.17
 
116.17
 
Police
175.75
 
174.96
 
Public Works
166.04
 
166.04
 
Total City
636.98 
633.26 
By Type
Merit Positions
549.14
 
549.50
 
Per Diem
88.47
 
83.76
 
Total City
637.61 
633.26 
38
782 of 1111

--- page 783 ---
All Funds Budget Summary
 BEGINNING FUND 
 INTERFUND 
BALANCE
TRANSFERS IN
General Funds
General 1
85,740,902
$ 
  
154,028,761
$ 
  
2,616,532
$ 
  
Measure S Tracking
9,898,269
  
7,100,000
  
-  
Measure CC Fund
6,907,568
  
-
   
-  
Housing Set Aside Fund
6,387,084
  
-
   
1,100,000
  
Downtown Services
1,524,678
  
4,251,000
  
-
   
Recreation Services
-
   
4,801,000
  
5,440,361
  
Golf
1,033,664
  
3,343,500
  
-  
General Funds Total
111,492,164
$ 
  
173,524,261
$ 
  
9,156,893
$ 
  
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants
556,786
$ 
  
1,202,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Solid Waste
14,597,381
  
3,738,000
  
-
   
HOME
497,258
  
15,000
  
-
   
Community Development Block Grant 
548,849
  
740,000
  
-
   
Advance Planning
6,071,470
  
2,050,000
  
-
   
Construction Services
26,518,777
  
9,467,550
  
-
   
Gas Tax
2,884,192
  
3,089,188
  
-
   
City Housing 
1,443,759
  
66,000
  
-
   
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
5,350,823
  
291,446
  
-
   
Parks and Recreation Revenue
3,779,506
  
4,692,000
  
-
   
Traffic Impact Fee
(2,652,760)
   
1,349,708
  
-
   
Commercial Linkage Fee
(550,244)
   
2,550,000
  
-
   
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
1,805,202
  
3,063,176
  
-
   
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
10,024
  
224,653
  
-
   
Landfill Fund
4,496,133
  
680,000
  
-
   
Special Revenue Funds Total
65,357,154
$ 
  
33,218,721
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
30,264
$ 
  
-
$ 
  
2,690,000
$
  
General Obligation Bonds
7,159,656
  
1,590,000
  
-
   
2% Hotel Tax
364,067
  
748,000
  
350,000
  
Debt Service Funds Total
7,553,987
$ 
  
2,338,000
$ 
  
3,040,000
$ 
  
Capital Improvement Projects Funds
Capital Improvement Projects
7,737,223
$ 
  
10,958,293
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Capital Improvement Projects Funds Total
7,737,223
$ 
  
10,958,293
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Enterprise Fund
Storm
1,737,115
$ 
  
4,216,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Sewer 
294,962,860
  
95,720,550
  
-
   
Enterprise Fund Total
296,699,975
$ 
  
99,936,550
$ 
  
-
$ 
   
Internal Service Funds 2
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
18,494,800
$ 
  
2,208,896
$ 
  
410,000
$ 
  
Fleet and Building Maintenance
649,002
  
6,140,490
  
-
   
Benefits
(297,201)
   
51,055,072
  
-
   
Dental
999,146
  
779,000
  
-
   
Workers' Compensation
6,538,811
  
2,900,000
  
-
   
Comprehensive Liability
(1,217,736)
   
5,200,000
  
-  
Internal Service Funds Total
25,166,822
$ 
  
68,283,458
$ 
  
410,000
$ 
  
 Total City 
 $ 
 488,840,503  $ 
 320,745,825  $ 
 12,606,893 
Note: Governmental Funds are presented using a modified accrual basis and Proprietary Funds are presented using a full accrual basis.
1 Vacancy savings shown in the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan are incorporated in the amounts under the Operating column. 
2 For Internal Service Funds, only transfers and investment income are included in totals.  
PROPOSED 2025-26
REVENUES
39
783 of 1111

--- page 784 ---
All Funds Budget Summary
 INTERFUND 
 ENDING FUND 
TRANSFERS OUT
Operating
Transfer to CIP
Transfer to Capital 
Investment Reserve
BALANCE
7,300,361
$ 
  
154,447,500
$ 
  
5,050,000
$ 
  
25,000,000
$ 
   
50,588,333
$ 
  
3,029,032
  
2,161,116
  
3,000,000
  
-  
8,808,121
  
-
   
200,000
  
875,000
  
-  
5,832,568
  
-
   
86,237
  
-
   
-  
7,400,847
  
-
   
4,496,506
  
-
   
-  
1,279,172
  
-
   
10,241,361
  
-
   
-  
-
   
-
   
3,747,764
  
-
   
-  
629,400
  
10,329,393
$ 
  
175,380,484
$ 
  
8,925,000
$ 
  
25,000,000
$ 
   
74,538,440
$ 
  
-
$ 
  
1,610,043
$
  
-
$ 
  
-
$
 
148,743
$
  
-
   
4,858,292
  
-
   
-  
13,477,089
  
-
   
10,000
  
-
   
-  
502,258
  
-
   
488,356
  
617,000
  
-  
183,493
  
-
   
2,357,167
  
-
   
-  
5,764,304
  
530,000
  
14,507,442
  
390,000
  
-  
20,558,884
  
1,747,500
  
-
   
1,253,000
  
-  
2,972,880
  
-
   
253,500
  
-
   
-  
1,256,259
  
-
   
368,428
  
-
   
-  
5,273,841
  
-
   
18,258
  
2,250,000
  
-  
6,203,249
  
-
   
-
   
850,000
  
-  
 (2,153,052)
-
   
40,498
  
-
   
-  
1,959,257
  
-
   
-
   
2,700,000
  
-  
2,168,378
  
-
   
224,653
  
-
   
-  
10,024
  
-
   
101,193
  
1,120,000
  
-  
3,954,940
  
2,277,500
$ 
  
24,837,830
$ 
  
9,180,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
62,280,545
$
  
-
$ 
  
2,697,954
$
  
-
$ 
  
-
$
 
22,310
$
  
-
   
2,135,229
  
-
   
-  
6,614,427
  
-
   
997,768
  
-
   
-  
464,299
  
-
$ 
  
5,830,951
$
  
-
$ 
  
-
$
 
7,101,036
$
  
-
$ 
  
-
$
  
9,596,857
$
  
-
$ 
 
9,098,659
$
  
-
$ 
  
-
$
  
9,596,857
$
  
-
$ 
 
9,098,659
$
  
-
$ 
  
1,324,410
$
  
3,400,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
1,228,705
$
  
-
   
64,601,242
  
29,639,000
  
-  
296,443,168
  
-
$ 
  
65,925,652
$
  
33,039,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
297,671,873
$
  
-
$ 
  
11,819,511
$
  
800,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
8,494,185
$
  
-
   
6,245,353
  
-
   
-  
544,139
  
-
   
50,793,636
  
-
   
-  
(35,765)
   
-
   
855,000
  
-
   
-  
923,146
  
-
   
4,470,554
  
-
   
-  
4,968,257
  
-  
5,184,430
  
-  
-  
(1,202,166)
   
-
$ 
  
79,368,485
$
  
800,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
13,691,796
$
  
 $ 
 12,606,893  $ 
 271,974,917  $ 
 61,540,857  $ 
 25,000,000  $ 
 450,690,554 
EXPENDITURES
40
784 of 1111

--- page 785 ---
Pension Long-Term Forecast
2024-25
2025-26
2026-27
2027-28
(In millions)
ESTIMATES
PROPOSED
FORECAST
FORECAST
Pension Contribution 1 - By Plan
Miscellaneous
11.8
$
 
11.7
$
 
12.4
$
 
13.0
$
 
Safety
18.4
$
 
19.7
$
 
20.7
$
 
21.5
$
 
Total
30.2
$
 
31.4
$
 
33.1
$
 
34.4
$
 
Pension Contribution 1 - By Type
Normal Costs
7.4
$
 
7.5
$
 
7.6
$
 
7.6
$
 
Unfunded Actuarial Liability (UAL)
22.8
$
 
23.9
$
 
25.5
$
 
26.8
$
 
Total
30.2
$
 
31.4
$
 
33.1
$
 
34.4
$
 
Actuarial Unfunded Liabilities
Miscellaneous
100.8
$
 
98.9
$
 
97.0
$
 
94.3
$
 
Safety
199.1
$
 
196.8
$
 
193.0
$
 
188.0
$
 
Total
299.9
$
 
295.7
$
 
290.1
$
 
282.3
$
 
Funded Percentage
Miscellaneous
71%
72%
73%
75%
Safety
61%
62%
63%
65%
Total
65%
66%
67%
69%
Total Pension Contribution as % of Covered Payroll 3
Miscellaneous 
30%
29%
30%
30%
Safety
102%
107%
109%
110%
Total
53%
53%
55%
55%
Pension Contribution as % of General Fund Expenditures 2
Miscellaneous 
7%
7%
7%
7%
Safety
11%
12%
12%
12%
Total
18%
19%
19%
19%
1 This is the City's pension cost before accounting for employees' cost-sharing.  
2 General Fund Expenditures only. Transfers out is not included.
3 Percentage increases for Safety plan are primarily due to the City's fire operations transferred to a new JPA agency in January 2019, resulting in less covered payroll but with the unfunded liabilities remaining as the 
City's responsibility.
41
785 of 1111

--- page 786 ---
Pension Long-Term Forecast
2028-29
2029-30
2030-31
2031-32
2032-33
2033-34
2034-35
FORECAST
FORECAST
FORECAST
FORECAST
FORECAST
FORECAST
FORECAST
14.1
$
 
14.4
$
 
14.7
$
 
14.4
$
 
14.3
$
 
13.7
$
 
13.5
$
 
23.0
$
 
23.5
$
 
23.9
$
 
23.4
$
 
23.2
$
 
22.3
$
 
21.9
$
 
37.1
$
 
37.9
$
 
38.5
$
 
37.7
$
 
37.5
$
 
36.0
$
 
35.4
$
 
7.7
$
 
7.7
$
 
7.8
$
 
7.8
$
 
7.8
$
 
7.9
$
 
7.9
$
 
29.4
$
 
30.2
$
 
30.8
$
 
29.9
$
 
29.7
$
 
28.2
$
 
27.6
$
 
37.1
$
 
37.9
$
 
38.5
$
 
37.7
$
 
37.5
$
 
36.0
$
 
35.4
$
 
90.9
$
 
86.1
$
 
80.7
$
 
74.7
$
 
68.6
$
 
62.3
$
 
56.2
$
 
181.7
$
 
173.4
$
 
163.9
$
 
153.4
$
 
142.7
$
 
131.4
$
 
120.2
$
 
272.6
$
 
259.5
$
 
244.6
$
 
228.1
$
 
211.3
$
 
193.6
$
 
176.4
$
 
76%
78%
80%
82%
84%
86%
87%
66%
68%
70%
73%
75%
77%
79%
71%
72%
74%
77%
79%
81%
83%
32%
32%
32%
30%
29%
27%
26%
115%
114%
112%
107%
104%
97%
93%
58%
58%
57%
54%
52%
49%
47%
8%
8%
7%
7%
7%
7%
6%
12%
12%
12%
12%
11%
11%
10%
20%
20%
20%
19%
18%
17%
17%
42
786 of 1111

--- page 787 ---
General Fund
43
787 of 1111

--- page 788 ---
General Fund Summary
 GENERAL FUND 
 2025-26
PROPOSED
BUDGET 
Resources
Property Tax
 $          89,352,000 
Sales Tax - Local 1%
             20,200,000 
Sales Tax - Prop 172
400,000 
Sales Tax - 1/4% Measure S
7,000,000 
Property Transfer Tax
8,600,000 
Transient Occupancy Tax
4,000,000 
Business License Tax
8,000,000 
Franchises
3,430,000 
Golf Fees
3,343,500 
Recreation Service Charges
4,801,000 
Permits, Fees, and Fines
7,731,708 
Intergovernmental
3,456,445 
Interest and Miscellaneous
6,338,712 
Transfers In - In Lieu Charges
5,070,896 
Transfers In - Rent from Sewer Fund
1,800,000 
Transfers In - Construction Services
530,000 
Transfers In - Gas Tax
1,747,500 
Current Resources
 $        175,801,761 
Use Unassigned Fund Balance
 $          11,953,724 
Total Resources
 $        187,755,485 
Expenditures by Department
City Attorney
 $            1,362,187 
City Clerk
1,097,892 
City Council
563,805 
City Manager
3,137,343 
Community Development
2,082,117 
Finance
4,396,466 
Human Resources
2,766,970 
Information Technology
5,245,027 
Library
             10,024,450 
Parks and Recreation
             23,519,690 
Police
             66,284,984 
Public Works
             10,016,465 
Non-Departmental
6,121,556 
Transfers Out
             12,375,000 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Constribution and Fire Legacy Costs
             38,761,533 
Total Expenditures
 $        187,755,485 
Resources Over  /  (Under)  Expenditures
 $
-   
44
788 of 1111

--- page 789 ---
General Fund Summary
*Department totals shown in millions.
*Citywide Administration includes these departments: City Attorney, City Clerk, City Council, City Manager, Finance, Human Resources, and Information Technology
City Administration
$18.6 
Community 
Development
$2.1 
Library
$10.0 
Parks and 
Recreation
$23.5 
Police
$66.3 
Public Works
$10.0 
Non-Departmental
$6.1 
Transfers Out
$12.4 
San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire 
Department 
Constribution and Fire 
Legacy Costs
$38.8 
GENERAL FUND 
OPERATING BUDGET BY DEPARTMENT 
2025-26 ($187.8 MILLION)
45
789 of 1111

--- page 790 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
2023-24 
ACTUALS 
2024-25 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
REVENUES
Property Tax
78,606,527
$     
84,000,000
$     
89,352,000
$     
91,017,000
$     
91,828,000
$     
Sales Tax - Local 1%
20,543,116
       
20,500,000
       
20,200,000
       
20,402,000
       
20,810,000
       
Sales Tax - Prop 172
390,040
            
420,000
            
400,000
            
402,000
            
404,000
            
Sales Tax - 1/4% Measure S
6,839,831
         
7,000,000
         
7,000,000
         
7,070,000
         
7,211,000
         
Property Transfer Tax
8,634,762
         
14,000,000
       
8,600,000
         
8,600,000
         
8,600,000
         
Business License Tax
8,448,490
         
7,250,000
         
8,000,000
         
8,160,000
         
8,320,000
         
Transient Occupancy Tax
5,326,073
         
4,000,000
         
4,000,000
         
4,080,000
         
4,162,000
         
Franchises
3,403,374
         
3,350,000
         
3,430,000
         
3,460,000
         
3,490,000
         
Golf Fees
3,740,764
         
3,233,500
         
3,343,500
         
3,410,000
         
3,480,000
         
Recreation Service Charges
4,024,832
         
4,131,057
         
4,801,000
         
5,040,000
         
5,190,000
         
Permits, Fees, and Fines
9,448,804
         
7,702,786
         
7,731,708
         
8,100,000
         
8,340,000
         
Intergovernmental
3,066,664
         
3,368,551
         
3,456,445
         
3,600,000
         
3,670,000
         
Interest and Miscellaneous
11,086,174
       
5,950,000
         
6,338,712
         
7,400,000
         
6,875,000
         
Transfers In - In Lieu Charges
4,688,762
         
4,920,000
         
5,070,896
         
5,220,000
         
5,380,000
         
Transfers In - Rent from Sewer Fund
1,800,000
         
1,800,000
         
1,800,000
         
2,250,000
         
2,700,000
         
Transfers In - Construction Services
499,933
            
510,000
            
530,000
            
550,000
            
570,000
            
Transfers In - Gas Tax
1,747,500
         
1,747,500
         
1,747,500
         
1,747,500
         
1,747,500
         
TOTAL REVENUES
172,295,644
$   
173,883,394
$   
175,801,761
$   
180,508,500
$   
182,777,500
$   
EXPENDITURES
Salaries and Wages
52,839,797
$     
56,635,169
$     
56,805,874
$     
58,510,000
$     
60,265,000
$     
Benefits
21,035,521
       
23,512,566
       
23,835,672
       
23,990,000
       
24,110,000
       
Pension Unfunded Liability (UAL)
11,440,980
       
12,984,027
       
13,613,649
       
14,330,000
       
14,890,000
       
Non-Personnel Operating
37,047,757
       
40,995,412
       
42,363,757
       
44,705,000
       
46,005,000
       
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
34,195,622
       
36,095,951
       
38,761,532
       
40,519,000
       
42,171,000
       
Transfers Out
15,683,288
       
14,100,000
       
12,375,000
       
9,742,900
         
9,741,300
         
Budget Savings
-
                    
(4,000,000)
        
(3,500,000)
        
(4,000,000)
        
(4,500,000)
        
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
172,242,965
$   
180,323,125
$   
184,255,484
$   
187,796,900
$   
192,682,300
$   
Resources Over / (Under) Requirements
52,680
(6,439,731)
(8,453,723)
(7,288,400)
(9,904,800)
Transfers Out to CIP Investment Reserve
-
                    
-
                    
(25,000,000)
-
                    
-
                    
Beginning Fund Balance
117,879,215
$   
117,931,895
$   
111,492,164
$   
78,038,442
$     
70,750,042
$     
Ending Fund Balance
117,931,895
$   
111,492,164
$   
78,038,442
$     
70,750,042
$     
60,845,242
$     
46
790 of 1111

--- page 791 ---
General Fund 10-Year Forecast
2028-29 
FORECAST
2029-30 
FORECAST
2030-31 
FORECAST
2031-32 
FORECAST
2032-33 
FORECAST
2033-34 
FORECAST
2034-35 
FORECAST
97,964,000
$         
101,686,000
$       
101,634,000
$       
107,970,000
$       
114,854,000
$       
117,930,000
$       
123,550,000
$       
21,226,000
           
21,651,000
           
22,084,000
           
22,526,000
           
22,977,000
           
23,437,000
           
23,906,000
           
408,000
 
412,000
 
416,000
 
420,000
 
424,000
 
428,000
 
432,000
 
7,355,000
             
7,502,000
             
7,652,000
             
7,805,000
             
7,961,000
             
8,120,000
             
8,282,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,600,000
             
8,490,000
             
8,660,000
             
8,830,000
             
9,010,000
             
9,190,000
             
9,370,000
             
9,560,000
             
4,245,000
             
4,330,000
             
4,417,000
             
4,505,000
             
4,595,000
             
4,687,000
             
4,781,000
             
3,520,000
             
3,560,000
             
3,600,000
             
3,640,000
             
3,680,000
             
3,720,000
             
3,760,000
             
3,550,000
             
3,620,000
             
3,690,000
             
3,760,000
             
3,840,000
             
3,920,000
             
3,998,400
             
5,350,000
             
5,510,000
             
5,680,000
             
5,850,000
             
6,030,000
             
6,210,000
             
6,400,000
             
8,590,000
             
8,850,000
             
9,120,000
             
9,390,000
             
9,670,000
             
9,960,000
             
10,260,000
           
3,740,000
             
3,810,000
             
3,890,000
             
3,970,000
             
4,050,000
             
4,130,000
             
4,210,000
             
6,350,000
             
6,000,000
             
4,500,000
             
4,500,000
             
4,500,000
             
4,500,000
             
4,500,000
             
5,540,000
             
5,710,000
             
5,880,000
             
6,060,000
             
6,240,000
             
6,430,000
             
6,620,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
2,700,000
             
590,000
 
610,000
 
630,000
 
650,000
 
670,000
 
690,000
 
710,000
 
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
1,747,500
             
189,965,500
$       
194,958,500
$       
195,070,500
$       
203,103,500
$       
211,728,500
$       
216,579,500
$       
224,016,900
$       
62,073,000
$         
63,935,000
$         
65,853,000
$         
67,829,000
$         
69,864,000
$         
71,960,000
$         
74,119,000
$         
24,830,000
           
25,570,000
           
26,340,000
           
27,130,000
           
27,950,000
           
28,780,000
           
29,650,000
           
16,210,000
           
16,440,000
           
16,620,000
           
16,150,000
           
16,020,000
           
15,150,000
           
14,800,000
           
47,093,000
           
48,210,000
           
49,359,000
           
50,541,000
           
51,756,000
           
53,004,000
           
54,289,000
           
44,204,000
           
45,811,000
           
47,081,000
           
47,993,000
           
49,089,000
           
49,890,000
           
50,956,000
           
9,743,100
             
9,843,100
             
9,841,300
             
9,890,550
             
9,891,800
             
10,136,800
           
10,139,550
           
(4,500,000)
            
(4,500,000)
            
(5,000,000)
            
(5,000,000)
            
(5,000,000)
            
(5,000,000)
            
(5,000,000)
            
199,653,100
$       
205,309,100
$       
210,094,300
$       
214,533,550
$       
219,570,800
$       
223,920,800
$       
228,953,550
$       
(9,687,600)
(10,350,600)
(15,023,800)
(11,430,050)
(7,842,300)
(7,341,300)
(4,936,650)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
60,845,242
$         
51,157,642
$         
40,807,042
$         
25,783,242
$         
14,353,192
$         
6,510,892
$           
(830,408)
$             
51,157,642
$         
40,807,042
$         
25,783,242
$         
14,353,192
$         
6,510,892
$           
(830,408)
$             
(5,767,058)
$          
47
791 of 1111

--- page 792 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
Revenues and expenditures in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2025-26 business plan and corresponding long-term financial plan are based on 
assumptions about the factors impacting each major revenue and expenditure category. For revenues, assumptions are largely 
based on economic or other conditions outside the City’s control. Assumptions for expenditures differ, however, in that in many 
cases, the assumptions are predominantly under the City’s control. A detailed discussion of the projection methodologies and 
major assumptions made for the FY 2025-26 business plan and corresponding long-term financial plan are discussed in detail 
below. 
GENERAL FUND REVENUES 
Revenue Estimation Methodology 
All revenue assumptions and projections are reviewed and revised each fiscal year. Key elements that have an impact on major 
revenue sources are identified and analyzed to ensure that the projection methodology is as reliable as possible over the long 
term. Historical data trends indicate that significant swings in major revenues can occur due to economic cycles. Projecting 
revenues based on the high point of the economic cycle overstates the City’s financial position and could result in spending 
patterns that cannot be sustained. Conversely, projecting revenues from the lowest point of the economic cycle understates the 
long-term financial position of the City and can cause unnecessary service reductions. 
Property Taxes 
Property Tax is the largest source of General Fund revenue, comprising approximately 50% of the General Fund total revenues.  
The property tax base in San Mateo has been very stable, declining only slightly during the Great Recession and pandemic.  
However, due to the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy to control high inflation and the current economic uncertainty, we 
continue to live in a high-interest rate environment.  High borrowing costs have a damper effect on the housing market, which in 
return hurts the City’s property tax revenue growth.   
Property tax revenue is projected to be $89.4 million for fiscal year (FY) 2025-26, an increase of $5.4 million compared to $84.0 
million estimated for FY 2024-25. This estimate is based on several key assumptions which we will discuss in detail. Of all, the most 
important factor this year is whether the State of California will backfill the FY 2023-24 property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees 
(VLF) shortfall in FY 2025-26, including the City’s share of $6.6 million.   
The City’s property tax revenue includes several main categories: 
•
Secured Property Tax is the tax on real property and the structures on that real property.
•
AB 26 Redevelopment Residual Revenues represent the City’s designated share of tax increment from the former
redevelopment project areas that are in excess of the Successor Agency’s required obligated payments. These revenues
are primarily from the secured tax base in the former redevelopment project areas.
•
AB 1290 Redevelopment Pass-through funds represent the City of San Mateo’s General Fund share of the AB 1290 pass-
through payments made to taxing entities based on the tax increment funds used by Successor Agency to pay remaining
debt obligations. Similar to the AB 26 funds, these revenues are primarily from the secured tax base in the former
redevelopment project areas.
•
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF) is a mechanism used by the State to shift funding from local property tax
dollars to public schools. When local property tax dollars shifted into ERAF exceed what is necessary to fund the schools,
those excess funds are returned to the local taxing entities via Excess ERAF revenue. San Mateo is one of the five counties
in the State where Excess ERAF is generated.
48
792 of 1111

--- page 793 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
• 
Property Tax in Lieu of VLF represents the swap of vehicle license fees (VLF) for property tax as part of a state-local 
budget agreement in 2004. The agreement permanently reduced the VLF tax rate from 2% to 0.65%, and the revenue loss 
was replaced with a like amount from property tax. After FY 2004-05 base year, property tax in lieu of VLF increases 
annually in proportion to the growth in assessed valuation. Property tax in lieu of VLF has two funding sources: property 
taxes from non-basic aid school districts, and ERAF that would otherwise go to non-basic aid school districts.  
• 
Unsecured Property Tax represents the tax on appurtenances such as furniture, machinery, and equipment. 
• 
Supplemental Property Tax is the result of reassessing the value of real property when there is a change of ownership or 
new construction is completed after the official lien date. 
• 
Unitary Property Tax is assessed on property owned by utilities, such as power lines, cable, etc. 
• 
Homeowners’ Property Tax Relief revenues are reimbursements from the State for revenues lost due to the 
homeowners’ property tax exemption on the first $7,000 of assessed value of their principal place of residence. 
 
Secured Property Tax Assumption: 
Secured property tax constitutes over 60% of total property tax revenues and is projected to grow roughly 4% in the upcoming FY 
2025-26. The increase reflects the change in assessed value (AV) based on the County Assessor’s Office estimated property tax 
roll. While the average annual growth in AV over the past 10 years has been around 7% indicating strong demand in our region, 
we have experienced a slowdown in the housing market reflected in both real estate sales volume and prices. In the long-term 
plan, a conservative growth estimate of 4% is utilized for the first five years and a more optimistic growth estimate of 5% is used 
for the second five years of the plan. These assumptions factor in historic growth rates and the current economic environment. 
 
Property Tax In-Lieu of Vehicle License Fees (VLF) Assumption: 
As discussed above, in 2004, as a part of the budget deal with the State of California, the vehicle license fee rate was reduced from 
2.0% to 0.65%. To offset the onerous financial impact to local governments, the State backfilled the reduction of vehicle license 
fees with property tax, which is known as property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF). The primary caveat being that the 
funding source for the VLF is property tax and ERAF from non-basic aid school districts, which are school districts that are not able 
to meet their State-determined minimum funding level (as defined by Proposition 98) through property taxes. The funding 
mechanic is that the counties and cities use the property tax and ERAF from non-basic aid school districts to fund VLF, then the 
school districts get funding backfilled by the State General Fund. 
 
In San Mateo County, due to decreases in student enrollment and increases in property taxes, more and more school districts 
have switched to basic-aid status, meaning local property taxes are sufficient to meet the schools’ State minimum funding level.  
Currently, 18 of the 23 school districts in San Mateo County are basic-aid school districts, leaving only five non-basic aid school 
districts.  As such, property tax and ERAF from these limited non-basic-aid schools are not enough to fulfill the VLF revenues 
obligated to the county and local cities, creating the chronic VLF shortfall issue. 
 
To date, San Mateo County is one of only three counties in the State of California that has had VLF shortfalls. At present, the only 
recourse to be made whole for the VLF shortfall is to file a claim with the State for it to consider as a part of its budget 
deliberations in the subsequent fiscal year. In the last few years, the State has reimbursed counties and cities for their VLF 
shortfalls through its annual budget process. However, as the county-wide VLF shortfalls continue to widen, the State’s willingness 
to fund this obligation may diminish, particularly during fiscal years when the State experiences significant deficits. The most 
recent State budget estimates a $12 billion deficit.   
 
 
 
 
 
49
793 of 1111

--- page 794 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
In FY 2023-24, the county-wide VLF shortfall was $114 million, and the City’s share of the VLF shortfall was $6.6 million. Despite 
the collective efforts from San Mateo County and each local city within the County to contact state representatives to address the 
FY 2023-24 VLF shortfall, the State has not yet included VLF backfill funding in its FY 2025-26 proposed budget (May revision). San 
Mateo County and the cities will continue to fight for the VLF revenues. The next step, if the State adopts its FY 2025-26 budget 
without VLF backfill, is to advocate through our state representatives to include the VLF funding in the State’s budget 
amendments.  
 
The VLF shortfalls have become a major threat to our financial sustainability. San Mateo County projects that, over the next 7-8 
years, at least three more of the remaining non-basic aid school districts will shift to basic-aid status. As such, the county-wide VLF 
shortfall will grow exponentially, from the shortfall of $114 million for FY 2023-24 to over $300 million by FY 2031-32. The City’s 
share of the county-wide VLF shortfall is about 6%. If the County lost three more non-basic aid schools in 7-8 years, the City’s VLF 
shortfall will grow to approximately $19 million by FY 2031-32. Therefore, it is imperative for the county and cities in San Mateo 
County to continue advocating for the VLF revenue, as losing State funding on VLF shortfalls will severely impact to the City’s 
financial health and this funding should remain local as it is tax revenue remitted from property owners within the City and 
County. 
 
For the next fiscal year, our assumption is that the State will fully fund its VLF obligations. In the 10-year forecast, we use a middle-
ground assumption, assuming the County and cities will eventually find a permanent fix for the VLF issue, and this revenue will 
become stable.  
 
Other Assumptions: 
Excess ERAF Funds continue to be a steady, yet somewhat uncertain, revenue source for the General Fund. The long-term plan 
anticipates the continued receipt of Excess ERAF revenues annually. Excess ERAF is projected to be $8.4 million in 2025-26. There 
have been legislative efforts to increase the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF),which would ultimately increase funding for 
public school districts and decrease the amount of Excess ERAF that is available. Conversely, these efforts to increase the LCFF 
would likely shift more school districts into non-basic aid status and somewhat address the VLF shortfall issue, but it is difficult to 
quantify the impact until impartial analysis has been completed by the Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO). 
 
AB 26 Redevelopment Residual Revenues: Baseline revenue amount is projected to be $6.0 million for FY 2025-26 and is expected 
to grow at the same rate annually as the secured tax projection. Per Council direction, 20% of this residual revenue should be 
reserved annually in a housing set-aside in the General Fund. Policy H1.2 of the City’s Housing Element also calls for the City to 
contribute 20% of the AB26 redevelopment residual revenue to the housing set-aside, which the City can use for affordable 
housing developments. As a result, in the FY 2025-26 budget, $1.0 million has been added to the housing set-aside reserve. 
 
AB 1290 Redevelopment Pass-through: These funds continue to grow slightly and are estimated to grow 4% over the long-term 
forecast. 
 
Other property tax components, including unsecured, supplemental secured, and unitary property tax revenues, as well as 
Homeowners’ Property Tax Relief revenues, are expected to remain flat due to the nature of the revenue source.  
 
Background Information: 
 
The Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo is responsible for payment of the remaining 
recognized obligations, which include tax allocation refunding bonds (TAB). The last debt service payment for the Series 2015A 
TAB will occur in fiscal year 2032-33, which is the trigger event for the dissolution of the former Redevelopment Agency of the City 
of San Mateo. Beginning in fiscal year 2033-34, rather than receive AB 26 and AB 1290 property tax revenues, the taxing entities, 
which includes the City, will receive the full property tax increment, as all of the recognized obligations will be satisfied. As such, 
the City will need to address this change in advance to determine if it wants to continue contributing to the housing set-aside, as 
the AB 26 property tax revenue source will no longer exist beginning in fiscal year 2033-34. 
 
50
794 of 1111

--- page 795 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
Sales Tax 
Sales tax revenue is currently the second largest single revenue source of the General Fund. It has been a stable revenue source 
for the City and is projected to stay flat with only moderate 1-2% annual growth.   
 
It is worthwhile to note that the City’s share of the local 1% sales tax from internet sales is allocated through the County pool 
based on the City’s proportionate share of locally generated sales tax. There have been several legislative efforts to allocate 
internet sales tax based on point of delivery, which would serve the City well, but not enough political will to properly address the 
issue.  
 
The FY 2025-26 budget assumes Local 1% sales tax revenues (Bradley Burns) of $20.2 million and local 1/4% sales tax revenues 
(Measure S) of $7.0 million. Slow and steady growth is anticipated for sales tax throughout the long-term financial plan. 
 
Property Transfer Tax 
The City collects a real property transfer tax (RPTT) upon the sale or transfer of any property within the City boundaries. As a 
charter city, San Mateo voters approved a 0.5% real property transfer tax (RPTT) rate. Furthermore, in November 2022, San Mateo 
voters approved Measure CC that increased the RPTT rate to 1.5% for properties sold or transferred with a value of $10 million or 
more. 
 
This revenue source is extremely volatile, since it is driven by both property values and transaction volume, which can vary 
significantly, even during periods of relatively stable economic growth. During the Great Recession, RPTT dropped 70% from $10 
million to $3 million over a two-year period and took six years to climb back up to the $10-million-dollar level. In 2018-19, RPTT 
reached a record-high $14.0 million, but only one year later dropped nearly 30% to $9 million in 2019-20 due to COVID pandemic.  
Following the pandemic, RPTT rebounded quickly and reached $14.3 million in 2021-22, then dropped again to $7.1 million one 
year later due to the rise of mortgage interest rates which negatively impact the real property sales value and transaction volume. 
RPTT is anticipated to be almost $14.0 million for FY 2024-25, partly due to the addition of the Measure CC revenues. These 
examples, though, showcase how volatile this revenue source can be.  
 
Rather than try to determine the year-over-year trend, the General Fund Long-Term Plan uses an average of $8.6 million, including 
in fiscal year 2025-26. Finance staff will continue to monitor market trends at the local and national level and adjust assumptions 
accordingly. 
 
Transient Occupancy Tax 
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is dependent on both the occupancy levels and room rates of the City’s hotel stock. TOT revenue is 
very sensitive to broader economic trends. In good economic times, both occupancy rates and room rates increase, but during 
recessionary periods, both go down, which can result in a significant reduction in TOT revenue. In the City of San Mateo, the 
existing hotel stock primarily serves business travelers flying into and out of the San Francisco International Airport. 
 
TOT revenue suffered the most during the pandemic and was just about to return in FY 24-25 to the $7.0 million pre-pandemic 
baseline, when a major hotel within the City shut down. Given this, the new baseline for TOT is estimated at $4.0 million and is 
used in FY 2025-26 projections and in the long-term financial plan. 
 
Business License Tax 
The City of San Mateo Municipal Code requires all persons or businesses doing business in the City of San Mateo to pay an annual 
business tax, which is also referred to as a business license. The payment of this tax is required prior to the commencement of 
business in San Mateo. Depending on the type of business, the business license tax is either a flat fee or is based on gross receipts. 
Business license tax revenues have seen steady growth over the past decade. This revenue resource is projected to be $8 million in 
FY 25-26, then grow at a modest 2% annually in the long-term financial plan. 
51
795 of 1111

--- page 796 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
Franchise Fees 
The City receives franchise payments from companies providing garbage, electricity, gas, and cable television services. Small 
growth is expected from this revenue source, 1% annually in the forecast. This revenue source will continue to be carefully 
monitored, with future growth projections adjusted accordingly. Overall, franchise fee revenues are projected to be just over $3.4 
million in 2025-26. 
 
Golf Fees 
Golf fee revenues primarily come from rounds of golf played, but other sources include driving range revenue and merchandise 
sales. The City’s golf course continues to perform well in the post-pandemic period. The budget projection is set at $3.3 million for 
FY 2025-26, with a moderate 2% annual growth in the long-term financial plan.  
 
Recreation Service Charges 
Recreation service charges include the revenue collected from the various recreation programs that are run by the Parks and 
Recreation Department, including camps, youth and adult programs, picnic and recreation center rentals, and lagoon use fees. For 
FY 2025-26, total revenues from recreation service, including grants, are projected to be $4.8 million, with a 3% annual increase in 
the ten-year long-term forecast. 
 
Permits, Fees, and Fines 
The City receives permit, fee, and fine revenues from a number of sources across departments, including parking and traffic-
related citations (Police) and encroachment permits (Public Works). In FY 2021-22, the Downtown Parking Fund was merged into 
the General Fund. As such, parking revenues are now reported under this revenue category in the General Fund.  In total, General 
Fund’s permit, fee, and fine revenues are projected to be $7.7 million for FY 2025-26 then grow by 3% annually in the long-term 
financial plan. 
 
Intergovernmental 
Intergovernmental revenues are predominantly grants or reimbursements from other governmental agencies, including other 
cities, the county, the state, and the federal government. Because this revenue category consists predominantly of grants and 
reimbursements, many of which are one-time funds, revenues can fluctuate annually. Additionally, the City has an agreement with 
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) to provide Human Resources and Finance services. Reimbursement from 
SMC Fire is recorded here under Intergovernmental revenues.  For FY 2025-26, this revenue is projected to be $3.5 million with 2% 
modest growth in the ten-year forecast. 
 
Interest and Miscellaneous 
This revenue category includes interest earnings on the City’s investment portfolio and other smaller revenues not attached to 
other categories. Budget projections for investment earnings are on a cash basis to avoid fluctuations due to mark-to-market 
accounting adjustment on the City’s investment portfolio. In total, this category of revenues is expected to generate 
approximately $6.3 million in FY 2025-26, mostly due to strong investment returns.   
 
In-Lieu Charges 
In-lieu charges are funds transferred into the General Fund from other funds to cover the cost of City-wide administration. These 
costs include covering a portion of expenditures related to the operation of the City Manager’s Office, City Attorney’s Office, City 
Clerk, Finance, Human Resources, and Information Technology. It also covers costs such as the other funds’ share of general 
liability expenses. A total of approximately $5.1 million is projected in FY 2025-26. 
 
52
796 of 1111

--- page 797 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
In-lieu charges are set to grow at a rate of 3% annually in the ten-year forecast. The increase is largely due to increases in the costs 
of providing administrative services. In accordance with the best practices, the City’s cost allocation study was last updated in FY 
2020-21, and it is expected that the study will be maintained and updated on a regular basis. 
 
Transfers In – Gas Tax 
The Gas Tax Fund is set to transfer $1.7 million annually to the General Fund in the long-term forecast to cover a portion of street 
maintenance costs within the Public Works Department. This transfer has been set at a flat amount annually, which means over 
time it will provide less and less funding in terms of real dollars. While the allocation of $1.7 million was increased in FY 2018-19 
from the historical transfer of $1.5 million, a new allocation is not currently expected given the demand for Gas Tax dollars. The 
cost of street maintenance along with the revenues from Gas Tax funding will be monitored and future transfers will be adjusted 
accordingly. 
 
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES 
 
Expenditure Estimation Methodology 
Similar to the revenue assumptions, expenditure assumptions and projections are reviewed and revised each fiscal year. Unlike 
revenues, especially tax revenues, General Fund expenditures are largely under the control of the City. As such, assumptions for 
expenditure growth are generally able to be aligned with revenue growth where possible. In cases where an expenditure category 
is not under control of the City, as is the case for CalPERS pension contributions, the projected increases are treated as 
nondiscretionary and take precedence in terms of the allocation of resources, limiting the City’s flexibility to prioritize where funds 
are expended. Assumptions for each of the General Fund’s expenditure categories are discussed in detail below. 
 
Personnel Costs 
Personnel costs, including the City’s share of SMC Fire’s personnel costs, represent over 70% of total General Fund expenditures.  
The General Fund is projected to allocate $94.3 million for personnel costs in FY 2025-26. To best reflect the personnel costs, the 
General Fund ten-year forecast splits costs into three categories: salaries, benefits, and payment on the unfunded pension liability. 
This allows assumptions for cost increases in the three categories to move independently from one another. Assumptions for the 
major categories of personnel expenditures are discussed in the detail below. 
 
Increases for salaries and salary-related costs, such as overtime, are initially based on existing labor contractual agreements or 
assumptions about the outcome of ongoing and future negotiations.  Beyond those contractual assumptions, salary increases are 
set in the ten-year forecast based on projected modest salary increases, which generally aligns with our long-term CPI projections, 
throughout the forecast. It is important to note that these are only projections of possible salary increases and do not reflect the 
actual salary adjustments that will be made in the future. There are several factors that have to be considered related to salary 
increases in the future, including the City’s economic condition, the amount of unassigned fund balance in the General Fund, labor 
negotiations, and our ability to compete in the market for employees. 
 
As previously discussed, the cost of CalPERS pension contributions is not something the City has control over the way it does over 
many other expenditures. As a result, the ten-year forecast contains projected increases in the City’s contribution rates that were 
developed based on the latest CalPERS actuarial valuation and projection. These contribution rates, which have been adjusted to 
consider the employees’ share of the City’s contribution rates, factor in assumptions related to turnover of City employees and the 
fact that new employees will come in under lower pension formulas. The rates also factor in the most up-to-date information 
available about the economic and actuarial changes CalPERS has recently implemented, as well as updated investment return 
results.  
 
53
797 of 1111

--- page 798 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
The City’s pension contribution increased significantly starting in fiscal year 2024-25 due to the CalPERS investment loss of 
negative 6.1% in FY 2021-22. Such investment loss will cost the City over $100 million in additional pension costs over the 20-year 
amortization period. As a result, the City started paying about $6 million more in FY 2024-25 than FY 2023-24 and will be required 
to pay an additional $1-2 million annually during the rest of the five-year ramp-up period (FY 2025-26 through FY 2028-29). Once 
the five-year ramping has been completed, the overall increase in pension contributions is projected to be an additional $5 million 
over the pension contribution for FY 2023-24 for several years before gradually decreasing.  
 
FISCAL YEAR 
GENERAL FUND 
NORMAL COSTS   
 (in millions) 
GENERAL FUND 
PAYMENT ON 
UNFUNDED LIABILITY  
(in millions) 
GENERAL FUND  
TOTAL   
 (in millions) 
PERCENTAGE  
OF TOTAL GENERAL 
FUND OPERATING 
EXPENDITURES* 
2024-25 
$                                  5.8 
$                                19.4 
$                                25.2 
15% 
2025-26 
5.9 
20.5 
26.4 
15% 
2026-27 
6.0 
21.6 
27.6 
16% 
2027-28 
6.0 
22.4 
28.4 
16% 
2028-29 
6.0 
24.3 
30.3 
17% 
2029-30 
6.0 
24.7 
30.7 
16% 
2030-31 
6.1 
25.0 
31.1 
16% 
2031-32 
6.1 
$24.3 
30.4 
15% 
2032-33 
6.1 
24.1 
30.2 
15% 
2033-34 
6.1 
22.9 
29.0 
14% 
Source of Information: CalPERS Pension Outlook 
*Total operating expenditures exclude transfers out. 
 
In FY 2022-23, CalPERS had an investment gain of 5.8% and although this fell short of its long-term investment of return goal of 
6.8%, it did not significantly affect pension contributions in FY 2025-26. However, if CalPERS investment returns continue to fall 
short of the long-term investment goal, it will create another layer of unfunded pension liability to the City. The General Fund 
Long-Term Plan assumes that CalPERS will meet its target rate of return (discount rate) for the remainder of the ten-year forecast. 
 
Background Information: 
 
Payment on the unfunded pension liability includes the payment for fire employees that have transferred to SMC Fire, as those 
costs correspond to the years of service that the fire employees had worked for the City and remain the City’s responsibility 
even after transfer of operations. In the ten-year financial plan, fire’s portion of the unfunded pension liability is included as 
part of fire legacy costs. More detail on this is discussed below in the subsection for San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs. 
 
Other major costs in this category include medical, dental, and vision premiums paid by the City; Medicare and Social Security 
taxes; workers’ compensation; and deferred compensation. Medical insurance, which is the second-largest cost in this category, is 
set in the forecast to increase at 6.5% for the duration of the long-term plan. These assumptions are based on historical trends 
and assumptions used by the consulting actuary in the valuation of the City’s retiree medical plan. For other benefit costs that 
move with salary increases, such as Medicare and Social Security taxes, those are set to increase at the same rate as salaries in the 
ten-year financial plan. 
54
798 of 1111

--- page 799 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
Non-Personnel Costs 
The remaining General Fund’s expenditures consist of non-personnel costs. For the ten-year forecast, non-personnel expenditures 
were broken down into distinct categories: operating, transfers out, and the annual contribution to the San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department and fire legacy costs. A brief description of the types of expenditures in each category is provided below. 
 
OPERATING EXPENDITURES 
Operating expenditures, which total $42.4 million in FY 2025-26, include spending on a wide variety of expenditure categories 
related to operations of the City. Some of the major expenditure categories include professional and contract services, general 
liability insurance, utilities costs, and capital outlay. 
 
Professional and contract services in this category total about $11.8 million in FY 2025-26 and it covers a wide variety of service 
areas, such as engineering services, legal services, the annual financial audit, consultants for special studies, animal control, and 
the maintenance of street and park trees. Because expenditures in this category are largely within the City’s control, the long-term 
forecast reflects an annual increase of 2-3%.  
 
General liability insurance is another major expenditure category which has grown exponentially in the last few years. The budget 
for FY 2025-26 is $4.4 million and expenditures are expected to keep growing significantly over the 10-year forecast, with 5% 
increases in insurance premiums assumed for the majority of the forecast years. 
 
Utilities costs, which total $4.5 million in FY 2025-26, include gas, electricity, water, and telecommunications costs required for 
city operations. Of the total, over 55% goes toward gas and electricity, 25% goes toward water, and the remaining 15% is for 
telecommunications. For the ten-year forecast, the annual inflationary increase is set at 2%. These increases consider expected 
growth in costs, which are largely beyond the City’s control, although increased conservation efforts can help control expenditure 
growth in this area. 
 
The capital outlay expenditures include a "rental rate" charged to departments to cover the cost of replacing vehicles and 
equipment through the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund. Funds are accumulated while the vehicle or equipment is still 
in use, ensuring sufficient resources are available for replacements. The budget for this category is $1.57 million for FY 2025-26. 
For more information about the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund and its long-term financial plan, please refer to the 
Fund Information section of this budget document. 
 
TRANSFERS OUT 
This category of funding includes the transfers the General Fund makes to various funds to fund ongoing and one-time needs. 
Ongoing transfers are programed in the long-term forecast.  
 
In the proposed FY 2025-26 budget, transfers out is projected to be $12.375 million, comprising of the following: 
• 
$8.925 million contributions to Capital Improvement Plan (CIP), of which $3 million is from Measure S and $0.875 million is 
from Measure CC; 
• 
$2.7 million from Measure S for debt service related to the 2020A Revenue Bonds issued for flood control and street 
rehabilitation improvements; 
• 
$0.41 million annual contribution to the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund for major building component 
replacement; and 
• 
$0.35 million to replenish the 2% Hotel Tax Fund’s fund balance to meet debt service requirements. 
 
 
 
55
799 of 1111

--- page 800 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions 
 
SAN MATEO CONSOLIDATED FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTRIBUTION AND FIRE LEGACY COSTS 
On January 13, 2019, the City’s fire operations were transferred to the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire), a 
Joint Powers Authority (JPA), for fire, rescue, and emergency services between the cities of Belmont, Foster City, and San Mateo. 
Pursuant to the JPA, SMC Fire costs are split 20% Belmont, 20% Foster City, and 60% San Mateo.   
 
The City’s share of SMC Fire costs is projected to be $31.05 million for FY 2025-26. Additionally, there are legacy costs that remain 
with the City, which are costs that were incurred during the time that the fire employees had worked for the City. These legacy 
costs include the unfunded pension liability, workers’ compensation liability, and retiree health benefit liability. Factoring in the 
legacy costs that remain with the City, the total cost to the City’s General Fund for fire service for FY 2025-26 is $38.8 million. 
 
The long-term forecast presents the City’s contribution to SMC Fire and its fire legacy costs in a separate line to provide greater 
transparency and better projection of costs. The legacy costs are based on the consulting actuary’s projections. The City’s 60% 
contributions were based on the SMC Fire budget and five-year forecast. Beyond that, a 4% increase has been projected for the 
first five years of the 10-year plan and a 3% annual growth has been projected for the remaining. 
 
BUDGET SAVINGS 
The budget savings amount represents expenditure reductions and/or revenues exceeding expectations. Including this adjustment 
in the General Fund long-term forecast presents a more realistic view of the General Fund’s financial position.   
 
TRANSFERS OUT TO CIP INVESTMENT RESERVE 
The City Council approved staff’s recommendation to set aside some of the unassigned fund balance of the General Fund into a 
Capital Improvement Investment Reserve per the new Capital Investment Reserve Policy included in the Appendix section of the 
budget document. The Capital Investment Reserve set aside is $25 million starting in FY 2025-26.  
 
LONG-TERM FINANCIAL FORECAST 
The long-term financial forecast includes all known and assumed resource demands. This provides a comprehensive view of the 
demand for the City’s resources and allows Council to prioritize how those resources should be allocated. The long-term forecast 
allows the City to foresee structural imbalance, and plan to position itself towards long-term financial sustainability. 
 
 
56
800 of 1111

--- page 801 ---
Departments
57
801 of 1111

--- page 802 ---
Departments by Fund
FUND NAME
CITY 
ATTORNEY
CITY 
CLERK
CITY
COUNCIL
CITY
 MANAGER'S
OFFICE
COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT
General Funds
General
X
X
X
X
X
Measure S Tracking
Housing Set-Aside
X
Downtown Services
Recreation Services
Golf
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants and Safety
Solid Waste
X
HOME
X
Community Development Block Grant
X
Advance Planning
X
X
Construction Services
X
X
X
City Housing
X
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
X
Parks and Recreation Revenue
Commercial Linkage Fee
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
X
Landfill 
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
General Obligation Bonds
2% Hotel Tax
Enterprise Funds
Sewer
X
x
Storm
Internal Service Funds
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
Fleet and Building Maintenance
Benefits
Dental
Workers’  Compensation
Comprehensive Liability
X
58
802 of 1111

--- page 803 ---
Departments by Fund
FINANCE
HUMAN 
RESOURCES
INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY
LIBRARY
PARKS AND 
RECREATION
POLICE
PUBLIC
 WORKS
NON-
DEPARTMENTAL
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
59
803 of 1111

--- page 804 ---
City Attorney
60
804 of 1111

--- page 805 ---
City Attorney
Mission Statement
The mission of the City Attorney’s Office is to provide excellent, clear legal advice and zealous, ethical legal representation 
for the City Council, City officers, and City staff to support them in their efforts to make San Mateo a community of the 
highest quality. The Office staff will be accessible to those they serve and respond to requests for service in a timely 
manner.
Services and Structure
Legal Counsel
The City Attorney’s Office is responsible for providing legal advice to the City Council, City staff, and City boards or 
commissions on matters that affect the conduct of City business; and for preparing contracts, ordinances, resolutions, 
and related legal documents to implement adopted City policy. The City Attorney’s Office also provides, either directly or 
through outside counsel, for the representation of the City in administrative proceedings and in court proceedings initiated 
by the City.
Litigation Defense
The City Attorney’s Office is responsible for providing, either directly or through outside counsel, for the defense of the 
City, its officers, and its employees against lawsuits and claims. The Office procures property and general liability insurance, 
contracts for claims adjusting services, and oversees the handling of Tort Claims. The City receives approximately 67 claims 
yearly, including claims for personal injury and property damage.
61
805 of 1111

--- page 806 ---
FINANCIALS
2021-22 
ACTUALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
1,521,063 
$ 
1,653,253 
Operating
 4,122,800
 5,222,800 
Indirect & Overhead 
 65,073 
 66,977 
Total Expenditures
$ 
5,708,936 
$ 
6,943,031
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
1,332,870 
$ 
1,362,187 
Special Revenue Funds
 229,249 
 278,376 
Enterprise Funds
 109,024 
 118,038 
Internal Service Funds
 4,037,793 
 5,184,430 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
5,708,936 
$ 
6,943,031
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Attorney
1.00
1.00
Assistant City Attorney
3.00
2.00
Executive Secretary to City Attorney
1.00
1.00
Senior Assistant City Attorney
-
1.00
Total Merit
5.00
5.00
Total Per Diem
 -   
 -   
Total Positions
 5.00 
 5.00 
City Attorney
62
806 of 1111

--- page 807 ---
City Clerk
63
807 of 1111

--- page 808 ---
City Clerk
Mission Statement
The office of the City Clerk assists residents in navigating the City’s governance structure; provides access to local 
government decision-makers; is the compliance filing officer; is the City’s elections official; and ensures transparent 
processes and access to the City’s records.
Services and Structure
The Clerk’s office provides the following services:
•
Oversight of the City Council legislative processes, including compliance with the Brown Act.
•
Coordination of recruitments for the City’s Boards and Commissions.
•
Preservation of the City’s official records and oversight of the City’s records management program.
•
Research and retrieval of records for the public and staff.
•
Maintenance of the City Charter and codification of the Municipal Code.
•
Management of agreements, contracts, and deeds.
•
Coordination and execution of municipal elections.
•
Act as the City’s compliance filing officer for the Political Reform Act and Public Records Act.
•
Administrative support to the City Council.
•
Manages special relationships such as Sister City and Adopted Unit program.
64
808 of 1111

--- page 809 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
828,307 
$ 
997,777 
Operating
 448,932 
 89,492 
Indirect & Overhead 
 10,623 
 10,623 
Total Expenditures
$ 
1,287,862 
$ 
1,097,892 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
1,287,862 
$ 
1,097,892 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
1,287,862 
$ 
1,097,892 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Clerk
1.00
1.00
Asistant to City Clerk
1.63
1.63
Deputy City Clerk
1.00
1.00
Management Analyst I/II
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
4.63
4.63
Total Per Diem
0.25
0.25
Total Positions
4.88
4.88
City Clerk
65
809 of 1111

--- page 810 ---
City Clerk
METRICS
Public Transparency and Compliance
We provide public access to legislative decision-making and government records.
Number of Public Records Act (PRA) requests received 
Percent of PRA responses responded to within prescribed timelines 
Percent of Fair Political Practices Commission (FPPC) compliances documents filed on time 
Percent of minutes completed and published on next regular meeting agenda
Legislative Process
We ensure that the City’s legislative decisions are smoothly and timely completed.
Number of contracts processed annually
Number of agendas developed for public meetings
Records Management
We are committed to protecting the City’s official public records.
Number of official records added to City’s electronic document management system. 
Informational Metrics
Number of Statement of Economic Interest Forms filed
66
810 of 1111

--- page 811 ---
City Clerk
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
1,500
1,700
1,900
2,100
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
89%
99%
99%
99%
Performance
75%
85%
95%
90%
Workload
133
150
150
150
Workload
50
50
50
50
Workload
1,922
2,200
2,500
2,800
Workload
190
170
170
170
67
811 of 1111

--- page 812 ---
City Council
68
812 of 1111

--- page 813 ---
City Council
Mission Statement
The City Council’s mission is to protect, maintain, and improve the quality of life for San Mateo residents and visitors by 
adopting legislation, providing policy direction for the City’s administration, and by promoting the best interests of the 
community locally and with other governmental agencies.
Services and Structure
The City Council is comprised of five members. Commencing with the November 2022 election, San Mateo began its 
transition to by-district election, with three members elected from Districts 1, 3 and 5. The City's transition to by-district 
elections was completed following the November 2024 election, where two at-large seats expired and Districts 2 and 4 
held their first district elections. General municipal elections are held every even numbered year, with two Council Members 
elected the year preceding Leap Year and three elected the year after Leap Year. Council Members hold office for four-year 
terms commencing the first regular council meeting in December following the November election. The Council Members 
select from among themselves a Mayor and Deputy Mayor to serve for one-year terms. The Council sets policy for the City, 
enacts ordinances, approves the budget, and authorizes City expenditures.
The Office of the City Council focuses on the following areas: the formulation of City policies which reflect the needs, 
wishes, and priorities of the residents of San Mateo; the promotion of economic, cultural, and governmental well-being of 
the community. To assure that residents and visitors are kept informed of municipal activities and events; and to establish 
and maintain cooperative, effective relationships and communications with local, state, and federal agencies to influence 
policy decisions, legislation, and services that affect the City of San Mateo.
69
813 of 1111

--- page 814 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$
131,335 
$ 
133,099 
Operating
311,735
 417,256 
Indirect & Overhead 
13,450
 13,450 
Total Expenditures
$ 
456,520 
$ 
563,805 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
456,520 
$ 
563,805 
 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
456,520 
$ 
563,805 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Council Member
5.00
5.00
Total Merit
5.00
5.00
Total Per Diem
-
-
Total Positions
 5.00 
 5.00 
City Council
70
814 of 1111

--- page 815 ---
City Manager's 
Office
71
815 of 1111

--- page 816 ---
City Manager's Office
Mission Statement
The City Manager’s Office provides leadership, support, and coordination for City departments; provides policy 
recommendations to the City Council and implements Council policies and actions; represents City interests in local and 
regional issues; and oversees key program areas of a Citywide nature.
Services and Structure
The City Manager’s Office includes the following program areas:  
City Management
Providing Citywide leadership and coordination to the organization and policy development support for the City Council. 
Representing the City’s interests in local and regional issues, and ensuring diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) initiatives are 
integrated into our work citywide. 
Economic Development
Supporting the economic vitality of the City through development opportunities, permitting support, business outreach and 
retention, marketing, and liaison work with economic development stakeholders and partner organizations.
Communications
Developing and implementing Citywide communications and community engagement activities and tools and serving as 
a resource for other departments.  Managing the content, navigation, and design of the City’s website and social media 
channels.
Sustainability 
Developing and implementing Citywide sustainability activities in support of Climate Action Plan and serving as a liaison to 
the Sustainability Commission.   
Volunteer Engagement
Coordinating volunteer engagement opportunities with City departments and encouraging greater community involvement 
with special events and neighborhood activities.
72
816 of 1111

--- page 817 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
2,436,809 
$ 
2,496,062 
Operating
 955,600 
 1,195,600 
Indirect & Overhead 
 17,782 
 18,189 
Total Expenditures
$ 
3,410,191 
$ 
3,709,851 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
2,845,299 
$ 
3,137,342 
Special Revenue Funds
 476,182 
481,671
Enterprise Funds 
 88,710 
 90,837 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
3,410,191 
$ 
3,709,851 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Manager
1.00
1.00
Assistant City Manager
1.00
1.00
Communications Manager
1.00
1.00
Communications & Engagement Coordinator I/II
1.00
1.00
Economic Development Manager
1.00
1.00
Executive Secretary to City Manager
1.00
1.00
Management Analyst I/II
1.00
1.00
Sr. Management Analyst
1.00
1.00
Sustainability Analyst
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
9.00
9.00
Total Per Diem
0.48
0.48
Total Positions
 9.48 
 9.48 
City Manager's Office
73
817 of 1111

--- page 818 ---
City Manager's Office
METRICS
Economic Development
Business assistance provided
Communications
Number of citywide eNewsletter subscribers
Volunteer Engagement
Number of volunteers and volunteer hours
74
818 of 1111

--- page 819 ---
City Manager's Office
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
150
160
175
175
Performance
12,508
12,600
13,000
13,500
Workload
4,358 vols
3,000 vols
4,000 vols
4,500 vols
33,658 hrs
27,000 hrs
35,000 hrs
35,000 hrs
75
819 of 1111

--- page 820 ---
Community
Development
76
820 of 1111

--- page 821 ---
Mission Statement
To ensure a quality-built environment and healthy 
neighborhoods that contribute to a strong economic base 
in the City of San Mateo; to be responsive to the community 
and respected by it; and to provide outstanding customer 
service.
Services and Structure
The Community Development Department (CDD) has broad 
responsibilities, including long-range planning, review 
of applications for new development, administration of 
the City’s General Plan, Zoning Code and the California 
Building Code, implementation of the City’s housing 
programs, and maintenance of neighborhoods. Five 
divisions work together to accomplish these goals: Building, 
Code Enforcement, Housing, Planning, and Business and 
Admin Services. The department provides staff support and 
services to three standing commissions and committees, 
including the Planning Commission, Community Relations 
Commission, and Civic Arts Committee, and works with 
numerous outside agencies, community groups and 
homeowner associations.
Building Division
The Building Division manages programs and services 
related to building permit plan review and inspection of 
buildings and structures to ensure a safe, accessible, 
sustainable, and energy-efficient environment throughout 
our community. The division regulates local and state 
laws related to building construction, maintenance, use, 
repair, and habitation. This includes the enforcement of the 
established health and safety codes, building codes, and 
standards. 
The division is organized into three work units: the 
permit center (City Hall public counter), plan review, and 
construction inspection. These units offer customers permit 
and property information, technical code review, permit 
issuance, and inspection services
Its mission includes customer service and public education 
to enhance the safety of existing buildings and to provide 
more public awareness of codes. In the event of an 
emergency or disaster, it is the division’s responsibility to 
perform damage assessments for all structures.
Code Enforcement
Code Enforcement works to promote and maintain a 
safe and desirable living and working environment on 
all private properties around the City. Code Enforcement 
accomplishes this by enforcing the City’s Municipal Codes, 
including Property Maintenance, Nuisance, Building, and 
Community Development
Zoning Codes. Additionally, Code Enforcement works in 
partnership with other divisions, departments, and outside 
agencies to support code compliance and assisting 
property owners, businesses and tenants in understanding 
City rules and regulations.
Housing
The Housing Division manages programs and services 
that increase and preserve affordable housing, improve 
and preserve lower income neighborhoods, prevent and 
address homelessness, and financially assist social service 
agencies providing services that benefit low-income 
households, and works with Planning to administer and 
implement programs and policies in the City’s Housing 
Element and procure planning grants from federal and state 
sources.  It manages grants from the federal Community 
Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, the state 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) fund, provides 
funding and ongoing monitoring of affordable housing, 
including administration of the City’s Below Market Rate 
inclusionary program, and staffs the Community Relations 
Commission. The division also co-manages the HOME 
Investment Partnership Program through the San Mateo 
County HOME Consortium.    
Planning
The Planning Division plans for the physical, social, and 
economic development of the City and ensures compliance 
with the General Plan, Zoning Code and other adopted 
plans and policies, as well as the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) for both public and private projects. 
Together with the Building Division, Planning reviews and 
processes private development projects to achieve a high-
quality built environment and long-term economic growth.
The division has two functions: Advanced Planning 
prepares long-range plans and policy documents for 
the physical and economic development of the City, and 
administers and maintains the City’s General Plan, including 
the Housing Element, Specific Plans, Zoning Code, and 
other policy documents to ensure compliance with state 
law and to reflect community needs and desires. Current 
Planning provides public information on City codes and 
requirements, and reviews development applications, 
including coordination with other Departments and outside 
agencies, to ensure that development within the City 
is consistent with long-range plans, community needs, 
development laws and state statutes.
77
821 of 1111

--- page 822 ---
Business and Admin Services  
The Business and Admin Services Division manages the 
Department's internal financial operations and annual 
budget, provides administrative support to the other 
four divisions, administers the Department’s business 
and enterprise systems, processes Public Records Act 
(PRA) requests and provides human resources support. In 
addition, the Division supports the City’s Child Care Loan 
program, Civic Arts Committee and Art in Public Places 
program, and manages other special departmental projects. 
Community Development
78
822 of 1111

--- page 823 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
11,024,370 
$ 
11,365,964 
Operating
 6,302,898 
 4,769,415 
Indirect & Overhead 
 1,467,801 
 1,509,793 
Total Expenditures
$ 
18,795,069 
$ 
 
17,645,172 
Expenditures by Cost Center 
 Advanced Planning 
$ 
1,663,727 
$ 
1,884,767 
 Affordable Housing 
 2,974,218 
 2,217,682 
 Building Inspection 
 299,704 
 267,500 
 Building Operations 
 5,942,122 
 6,269,056 
 Building Plan Checking 
 636,000 
 636,000 
 CDD Operations 
662,816
 745,462 
 Current Planning 
 4,993,279 
 4,278,256 
General Code Enforcement
 1,572,803 
 1,296,049 
Planning Commission
 50,400 
 50,400 
Total Expenditures
$ 
18,795,069 
$ 
 
17,645,172 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
2,701,780 
$ 
2,082,117 
Special Revenue Funds
 16,093,289 
 15,563,055 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
18,795,069 
$ 
 
17,645,172 
Community Development
79
823 of 1111

--- page 824 ---
Community Development
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Community Development Director
1.00 
1.00 
Administrative Assistant
4.00 
4.00 
Administrative Technician
2.00 
2.00 
Associate Planner
6.00 
6.00 
Building Inspector I/II
7.00 
7.00 
Business Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Code Enforcement Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Code Enforcement Officer I/II
3.00 
3.00 
Deputy Building Official
1.00 
1.00 
Deputy Community Development Director
2.00 
2.00 
Development Review Technician
5.00 
5.00 
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Housing Specialist I/II
2.00 
2.00 
Inspection Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Managing Arborist
1.00 
1.00 
Office Assistant I/II
2.00 
2.00 
Permit Center Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Plan Check Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Plan Checker Engineer
5.00 
5.00 
Planning Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Principal Planner
2.00 
2.00 
Senior Business Systems Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Development Review Technician
2.00 
2.00 
Senior Management Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Planner
2.00 
2.00 
Total Merit
57.00
57.00
Total Per Diem
0.92
0.92
Total Positions
57.92
57.92
80
824 of 1111

--- page 825 ---
Community Development
METRICS
CDD Administration
Number of staff vacancies within the year
Number of vacancies filled within the year
Number of PRA requests 
Average number of business days to respond to PRA requests 
Building
Number of building permit applications submitted - Commercial
Percent of building permit applications submitted online - Commercial
Number of building permit applications submitted  - Residential
Percent of building permit applications submitted  - % Residential Online
Number of building permit applications submitted  - ADU and JADU (number is subset of residential applications total)
Number of building permits issued - Commercial
Number of building permitsissued - Residential
Number of building permits issued - ADU and JADU (Accessory Dwelling Unit / Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit)
Number of permit inspections completed
Percent of permit inspections completed - within a two-hour window
Number of in-person customers served at the Permit Center - Total CDD Customers 
Number of planning applications reviews
Percent of planning application reviews completed within 10 business days
Number of residential permit applications reviewed - Residential building permit review efficiency 
Number of residential permits issued that required more than 3 plan checks before approval 
Number of special and emergency event responses assisting SMCFD and SMPD - Special and Emergency Event responses
Number of responses that were out of regular business hours - Special and emergency event responses 
Number of residential VOTC (virtual over the counter) online submittal applications - Virtual permit activity
Number of solar APP+ applications - Virtual permit activity 
Number of of BD reviews for CDD arborist
Number of of PA reviews for CDD arborist
Number of arborist inspections completed
Number of tree removal permit applications
Code Enforcement
Number of complaints received 
Percent of new cases investigated/opened
Percent of new cases closed: cases that were opened and closed within reporting quarter
Number of unpermitted construction cases opened
Number of all active cases: including cases from previous reporting quarters
Percent of existing cases closed
Number of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Tenant relocation required
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Repeat violator/violations
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints investigated within 48 business hours 
81
825 of 1111

--- page 826 ---
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
24
5
5
5
Workload
20
5
5
5
Workload
450
800
700
700
Performance
8
10
10
10
Workload
282
300
350
350
Workload
88%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
2,873
3,892
3,892
3,892
Workload
75%
75%
75%
75%
Workload
78
100
100
100
Workload
250
220
220
220
Workload
3,800
3,600
3,600
3,600
Workload
115
90
90
90
Workload
18,115
19,000
19,000
19,000
Performance
94%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
New
5,000
5,000
5,000
Workload
170
120
120
120
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
356
350
350
350
Workload
75
60
55
55
Workload
30
20
30
30
Workload
10
10
10
10
Workload
325
325
325
325
Workload
New
60
60
60
Workload
269
250
250
250
Workload
103
100
100
100
Workload
New
60
75
75
Workload
New
15
25
25
Workload
1,000
1400
1,200
1,200
Workload
40%
30%
30%
30%
Performance
30%
40%
40%
40%
Workload
5
10
10
10
Workload
850
800
800
800
Performance
25%
25%
25%
25%
Workload
New
15%
15%
15%
Workload
1%
1%
1%
1%
Workload
0%
0%
0%
0%
Performance
80%
100%
100%
100%
Community Development
82
826 of 1111

--- page 827 ---
METRICS
Housing
Number of housing units repaired/improved through minor home repair, accessibility modifications, and Rebuilding Together grants
Number of offer letters sent to Sellers of FTB and BMR Units 
Percentage of letters sent to Sellers of FTB and BMR Units within prescribed deadlines
Number of San Mateo residents who received services through the City’s Community Funding Program
Number of performed annual on-site monitoring visits of housing projects with City inclusionary units
Number of BMR and First-Time Buyer Units monitored annually for owner-occupancy
Planning
Number of Planning Application submittals 
Number of Planning Applications Deemed Complete
Percent of planning application review efficiency - Percentage deemed complete within three review cycles 
Number of Zoning Administrator Planning Application Decision Letters - ZA level Decision letter prepared
Percent of Zoning Administrator Level Planning Application Decision Letters processed within 20 days
Number of Building Applications assigned - Building Permit Applications Reviewed by Planning 
Percent of Building Application plan check reviews processed within 20 business days after assignment to planner
Number of Public and Community Outreach Meetings - Planning Applications and Planning Policy items reviewed by City Council 
Number of Public and Community Outreach Meetings - Planning Applications and Planning Policy items reviewed by Planning Commission
Number of Public and Community Outreach Meetings  - Community meetings and workshops
Number of Neighborhood Meetings - Informal neighborhood meetings held by applicants
Community Development
83
827 of 1111

--- page 828 ---
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Performance
20
19
19
19
Workload
4
3
3
3
Workload
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
2,773
4,389
4,389
4,389
Workload
19
17
19
19
Workload
400
390
390
390
Workload
80
75
75
75
Performance
50
50
50
50
Performance
80%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
36
40
40
40
Performance
100%
95%
95%
95%
Workload
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
Performance
80%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
New 
6
6
6
Workload
New 
12
12
12
Workload
New 
8
12
12
Workload
New 
50
70
70
Community Development
84
828 of 1111

--- page 829 ---
Finance
85
829 of 1111

--- page 830 ---
Finance
Mission Statement
The Finance Department is responsible for the overall financial management of the City. The Department’s core function is 
to maintain a strong and secure financial position for the City by providing comprehensive financial and analytical services 
to the City Council, City management, staff, and the public.
Services and Structure
Operationally, the Finance Department provides the following services:  
Accounting and Financial Reporting
Performing the accounting for all of the City’s financial transactions and preparing the Annual Comprehensive Financial 
Report and all other required annual financial statements.
Budget
Managing the annual operating and capital budget development process, and providing departments with reports and 
analysis to ensure expenditures are maintained within budgeted appropriations.
Treasury and Revenue Management
Managing the City’s cash and investments to ensure cash requirements are met and return on invested funds is aligned 
with the City’s investment policy. Administering the business license tax program, monitoring and enforcing collections of 
other revenue sources, and coordinating the annual update of the Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
Purchasing and Accounts Payable
Administering the purchasing program to ensure purchases are made in compliance with City policy and vendors are paid 
on time and accurately. Filing all required regulatory and tax-related documentation in a timely manner.
Payroll
Processing bi-weekly payroll for all of the City’s employees, reporting and paying tax obligations, and completing all 
regulatory reporting requirements.
Debt Service
Managing the City’s debt portfolio to ensure adequate funds are available to make principal, interest, and other debt-related 
payments in a timely manner; ensuring all continuing disclosure requirements are met; issuing new debt to meet City capital 
and infrastructure needs; and refunding existing bonds to achieve debt service savings.
86
830 of 1111

--- page 831 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
3,445,580 
$ 
3,428,137 
Operating
725,800
 767,800 
Indirect & Overhead 
343,182
 361,688 
Total Expenditures
$ 
4,514,562 
$ 
4,557,625 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
4,365,774 
$ 
4,396,466 
Special Revenue Funds 
 72,685 
 78,821 
Enterprise Funds
 76,103 
 82,338 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
4,514,562 
$ 
4,557,625 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Finance Director
1.00
1.00
Accountant I/II
2.00
2.00
Accounting Assistant I/II
4.00
4.00
Accounting Manager
1.00
1.00
Budget Manager
1.00
1.00
Deputy Finance Director
1.00
1.00
Finance Specialist I/II
1.00
1.00
Payroll Supervisor
1.00
1.00
Payroll Technician I/II
1.00
1.00
Senior Accountant
2.00
2.00
Senior Accounting Assistant
2.00
2.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
18.00
18.00
Total Per Diem
-
-
Total Positions
 18.00 
 18.00 
Finance
87
831 of 1111

--- page 832 ---
METRICS
The City's annual financial statements receive an unmodified opinion from the external auditors
The City's Annual Comprehensive Finance Report receives the Government Finance Officers Association Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in 
Financial Reporting
The City's Annual Comprehensive Finance Report is approved by Council by December 31st
Number of business license renewals processed
Number of new business licenses issued
Number of employee paychecks issued
Percent of paychecks issued with no customer-facing errors
Number of invoices received
Percent of vendor payments made with no errors
Percent of months City's investment portfolio complies with investment policy
Average duration of City's investment portfolio
Percent of months yield on the City's investment portfolio meets benchmark performance targets
Percent variance between final estimated revenues and actual revenues for major General Fund taxes
Percent of purchase orders processed within 3 business days
Number of change orders processed in Purchasing
Number of new credit cards issued
Percent variance between budget and actual General Fund expenditures
Finance
88
832 of 1111

--- page 833 ---
Finance
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Performance
Yes
Yes 
Yes
Yes
Performance
No
Yes 
Yes
Yes
Performance
No
Yes 
Yes
Yes
Workload
6,800
7,000
7,000
7,000
Workload
1,100
1,200
1,200
1,300
Workload
17,750
17,820
17,800
18,000
Performance
>99%
>99%
>99%
>99%
Workload
11,600
10,000
10,000
10,000
Performance
99%
>99%
>99%
>99%
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Other
528 days
750 days
730 days
520 days
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
1%
<5%
<5%
<5%
Performance
99%
>95%
>95%
>95%
Workload
284
250
260
200
Workload
27
20
22
25
Performance
4%
<5%
<5%
<5%
89
833 of 1111

--- page 834 ---
Human Resources
90
834 of 1111

--- page 835 ---
Human Resources
Mission Statement
The Human Resources Department is responsible for programs in personnel recruitment and selection, classification and 
position control, labor and employee relations, performance management, employee training and development, salary 
and benefit administration, workers’ compensation, employment related policies, safety programs, and employee service 
awards. 
Services and Structure
The Human Resources Department focuses on the following areas that support the City’s departments and workforce:
Recruitment, Selection, and Classification / Compensation
Directs the City’s recruitment, selection, and retention program, ensuring it meets legal requirements and civil service 
expectations; oversees the City’s position and vacancy control systems; determines appropriate classifications and 
compensation for positions; and monitors employee retention for the City. 
Employee and Labor Relations
Coordinates the collective bargaining process; ensures contractual changes are implemented; guides performance 
management, grievance resolution, employee conflict resolution, and administration of the City’s discipline process; and 
schedules matters before the Personnel Board.
Employee Services / Benefits
Manages the City’s benefit programs, leave of absence, and bilingual program; and directs the City’s automated personnel 
record keeping system. 
Employee Services / Employee Development and Workforce Planning
Oversees the Citywide training programs, new hire orientation, and employee recognition program. Develops and 
conducts professional development initiatives, fosters diversity, and encourages cross-departmental collaboration. Provides 
resources and expertise in support of departmental workforce planning efforts. Administers the tuition reimbursement 
program.
Workers’ Compensation
Provides oversight for the third party administrator's management of all claims; monitors compliance with the Americans 
with Disabilities Act (ADA); oversees administration of the Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations, the City's safety 
program, and modified duty program.
Human Resources Support to San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire)
Performs human resources activities on a contract basis for SMC Fire as coordinated by an on-site Senior Human Resources 
Analyst.
91
835 of 1111

--- page 836 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
2,354,848 
$ 
 
2,652,593 
Operating
 5,352,266 
 4,579,348 
Indirect & Overhead
 140,583 
 144,282 
Total Expenditures
$ 
7,847,697 
$ 
 
7,376,223 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
2,602,898 
$ 
2,766,970 
Enterpirse Funds
-
138,699
Internal Service Funds
 5,244,799 
 4,470,554 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
7,847,697 
$ 
 
7,376,223 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Human Resources Director
1.00
1.00 
Deputy Human Resources Director
1.00
1.00 
Human Resources Analyst I/II
1.00
1.00 
Human Resources Technician*
3.00
4.00 
Senior Human Resources Analyst
4.00
4.00
Senior Human Resources Analyst Risk Manager
1.00
1.00 
Total Merit
11.00
12.00
Total Per Diem
0.48
0.48
Total Positions
 11.48 
 12.48 
* 1.00 FTE HR Technician is a 2 year limited term position.
Human Resources
92
836 of 1111

--- page 837 ---
Human Resources
METRICS
Recruitment, Selection, and Classification
Number of recruitments conducted
Number of weeks from signed Recruitment Plan to Eligibility List
Percent of hiring departments rating recruitment as good or better
Annual percent of employee turnover rate
Number of classification reviews and job spec updates
Employee and Labor Relations
Percent of employee performance evaluations completed on time
Percent of departing merit employees who have an exit interview
Percent of disciplinary actions determined within 60 days from completion of investigation
Percent of grievances and disciplinary actions resolved within the agency
Number of labor contracts negotiated
Number of employees trained on Employee & Labor Relations
Employee Services/Benefits
Number of employees attending benefits seminars (EAP, deferred comp, CalPERS)
Percent of employees voluntarily participating in a deferred compensation plan
Number of benefits orientations conducted during NHO
Number of leave requests processed
Number of Wellness Program events per year
Employee Services/Employee Development & Workforce Planning
Number of employee participation in training courses
Percent of participants satisfied with City sponsored training courses
Number of employees participating in the Citywide Talent Exchange
Number of employees in Lead Worker, Supervisor, & Leadership Academies
Number of employees utlizing professional leadership coaching
Workers’ Compensation and Safety
Number of claims opened during the fiscal year
Cost of incurred claims 
Percent of new hires receiving IIPP training
Support to SMC Fire
Number of recruitments conducted
Percent of disciplinary actions determined within 60 days from completion of investigation
Number of workers' compensation indemnity claims opened in the fiscal year
93
837 of 1111

--- page 838 ---
Human Resources
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
40
40
65
65
Performance
5 weeks
<8 Weeks
<8 weeks
<8 weeks
Performance
99.50%
>90%
>90%
>90%
Performance
15%
<15%
<15%
<15%
Workload
25
25
45
45
Performance
80%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
80%
80%
80%
80%
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
5
5
5
5
Workload
40
40
30
30
Performance
115
115
60
60
Performance
80%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
3
3
3
3
Workload
60
60
60
60
Workload
3
3
2
2
Workload
450
450
500
500
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Performance
3
3
2
2
Workload
24
24
24
24
Performance 
12
12
12
12
Workload
70
<70
<60
<60
Performance
$3.5M
<$3.6M
<$2.6M
<$2.6M
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Workload 
5
5
6
5
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Performance / Workload
33
35
30
30
94
838 of 1111

--- page 839 ---
Information
Technology
95
839 of 1111

--- page 840 ---
Information Technology
Mission Statment
The Department of Information Technology (DoIT) works collaboratively with all City departments to deliver the highest 
quality IT services, infrastructure, and technology consulting possible. DoIT ensures the technologies that are being utilized 
serve business needs, help staff to be effective and efficient, and can be maintained long term.
Services and Structure
Operationally, DoIT provides the following services:
Consulting and Applications (BusCon)
Works collaboratively with departments to explore evolving business needs, define requirements, and build solutions. 
Acts as internal IT consultants, partnering with departments to explore departmental, multi-departmental, and Citywide 
business needs as they relate to technology. Supports and maintains applications and systems once they are put into 
production. The BusCon team also provides support for the City’s public Internet web presence, and administers, maintains, 
and supports the City’s Intranet platform as a collaborative workspace that serves Citywide and individual department 
operational business needs.
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Supports and maintains all GIS systems Citywide and creates GIS and mapping products, including a Police Accountability 
& Transparency dashboard, elections dashboard, Marina Lagoon dashboard, property information lookup, traffic and 
transportation improvements, Adopt-A-Drain, and other web maps.
Systems and Networks
Manages the operation, maintenance, and support of all City technology infrastructure and technology assets. Technology 
infrastructure includes all server-based systems (application hosting, file/data storage, backup), telephone systems, Local 
Area Network/Wide Area Network (LAN/WAN), and Internet connectivity. Systems and Networks is also the lead for cyber-
security protections for the City and administers cloud applications such as Microsoft 365.
Technical Support / Customer Service
Provides end user technology support through our Help Desk. Offers end user technology training resources. The 
Customer Support team also manages all end points (PCs) and the PC replacement schedule.
96
840 of 1111

--- page 841 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
3,221,750 
$ 
3,276,096 
Operating
 1,769,027 
 1,873,462 
Indirect & Overhead 
 212,121 
 212,600 
Capital Outlay
 17,165 
 17,680 
Total Expenditures
$ 
5,220,063 
$ 
5,379,838 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
5,086,661 
$ 
5,245,027 
Special Revenue Funds
 133,402 
 134,811 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
5,220,063 
$ 
5,379,838 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Information Technology Director
1.00
1.00
Consulting and Applications Manager
1.00
1.00
Custom Service Manager
1.00
1.00
GIS Coordinator
1.00
1.00
GIS Technician I/II
1.00
1.00
IS Support Technician I/II
2.00
2.00
Network Analyst
1.00
1.00
Senior IS Support Technician
1.00
1.00
Senior Systems Analyst
-
1.00
Systems Analyst I/II
3.00
2.00
Systems and Network Manager
1.00
1.00
Web Specialist
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
14.00
14.00
Total Per Diem
0.23
0.23
Total Positions
 14.23 
 14.23 
Information Technology
97
841 of 1111

--- page 842 ---
METRICS
Percent of Help Desk calls completed within 48 hours or less
Number of Help Desk calls annually
Percent of GIS requests completed within agreed upon time and scope
Number of GIS requests annually
Composite Score, technology infrastructure reliability
Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey rating
Information Technology
98
842 of 1111

--- page 843 ---
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Performance
97%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
4,294
3,500
3,500
3,500
Performance
99%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
91
75
75
75
Performance
98.84%
99.90%
99.90%
99.90%
Performance
99%
95%
90%
90%
Information Technology
99
843 of 1111

--- page 844 ---
Library
100
844 of 1111

--- page 845 ---
Library
Mission Statement
San Mateo Public Library builds community by inspiring imagination, discovery, and learning. 
Services and Structure
The Library Department is organized in the following divisions:
Administrative Services
Oversees the administrative services of the Library, including fiscal operations (budget, payroll, accounting); business 
contracts; facilities and safety; personnel processes and recordkeeping; meeting room rentals; the Passport Acceptance 
Office; Library IT and technology support; volunteer program; and supports the City Librarian’s work with the Library Board 
of Trustees.
Adult-Teen / Information Services 
Adult – Teen & Information Services coordinates the delivery of information services; develops collections and programs to 
meet the needs of a diverse community; cultivates partnerships to leverage the effort to reach a wider audience; instructs 
library customers on the use of electronic resources and tools; and promotes reading and literacy. 
Children’s / Literacy Services
Children’s Services provides library and literacy services to children (infants-8th grade), caregivers, and parents; develops 
resources that meet diverse needs; provides reader’s advisory service appropriate for reading interests and abilities; and 
assists students to succeed in school and meet personal learning goals. 
Adult Literacy Services (Project Read) provides free, confidential, and goal-directed literacy instruction in small groups or 
one-on-one tutoring to adults over 16 years of age so that learners can meet their literacy goals and fulfil important roles as 
family members, workers, and community members.   
Circulation / Technical Services
Circulation Services maintains the database of registered users; issues library cards; oversees the lending, maintenance 
and return of library materials including the technology device lending collection; bills and collects on accounts; oversees 
operations at Accounts Desks and self-checkout stations; upkeeps the library’s collections; manages reserve/holds 
operations; maintains and troubleshoots library technologies and systems; and assists with outreach in the community 
through mobile circulation technology.
Technical Services oversees the acquisition, cataloging, and processing of all library materials (print, media, and periodicals) 
for all three locations; maintains the library’s collection through repair, preservation, and deaccessioning of library materials 
that are dated or in poor condition. The division also provides oversight and processing responsibilities of the LINK+ 
interlibrary loan system.
101
845 of 1111

--- page 846 ---
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
6,514,411 
$ 
6,560,289 
Operating
 2,361,363 
 2,531,484 
Indirect & Overhead 
 885,390 
 932,676 
Total Expenditures
$ 
9,761,164 
$ 
10,024,450 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
9,761,164 
$ 
10,024,450 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
9,761,164 
$ 
10,024,450 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Librarian
1.00
1.00
Administrative Technician
1.00
1.00
Community Services Coordinator
1.50
1.50
Deputy City Librarian
1.00
1.00
Executive Assistant
1.00
1.00
Librarian I/II
9.63
9.63
Library Assistant I/II
9.75
9.75
Library Technology Specialist
1.00
1.00
Literacy Program Coordinator
1.00
1.00
Literacy Specialist
0.63
0.63
Senior Accounting Assistant
1.00
1.00
Senior Library Assistant
3.00
3.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00
1.00
Supervising Librarian
3.00
3.00
Supervising Library Assistant
1.00
1.00
Total Merit
36.51
36.51
Total Per Diem
17.15
13.23
Total Positions
 53.66 
49.74
Library
102
846 of 1111

--- page 847 ---
Library
METRICS
Number of non-digital library materials in circulation
Number of digital library materials in circulation
Percent of self-checkout transactions
Number of library patrons receiving technology assistance/instruction
Number of participants in library's reading programs
Percent of respondents to Customer Satisfaction Survey who rate library service as excellent or good
Number of annual visits by library patrons
Number of patrons served through outreach
103
847 of 1111

--- page 848 ---
Library
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
268,691
270,000
275,000
 275,000 
Workload
1,526,369
1,600,000
1,600,000
1,600,000
Performance
85%
87%
87%
87%
Workload
10,621
12,000
12,500
 13,000 
Workload
7,483
7,500
7,600
 7,600 
Performance
96%
90%
90%
90%
Workload
379,404
385,000
390,000
 395,000 
Workload
8,039
8,500
9,000
 9,000 
104
848 of 1111

--- page 849 ---
Parks and 
Recreation
105
849 of 1111

--- page 850 ---
Mission Statement
The Parks and Recreation Department’s mission is to enhance the quality of life and strengthen the bonds of community 
by providing an appropriate mix of safe, well-maintained and well-designed parks, open spaces, and community center 
facilities that are accessible for all residents; provide enriching leisure opportunities for all age groups; and to preserve and 
protect the City’s natural resources, including its urban forest, public open spaces, and landscaped medians and islands.
Services and Structure
Operationally, the Parks and Recreation Department provides the following services: 
Landscape Resources
Provides for the maintenance and conservation of all parks, open spaces, and public medians and right of ways and 
ensures the long-term protection of the City’s urban forest through scheduled maintenance activities.
Golf and Visitor Services
Operates Poplar Creek Golf Course and driving range through concessionaire agreements, pro shop services, and food 
and beverage services. Visitor services provides park ranger presence in parks to promote and support positive user 
experiences and enforcement of City ordinances.  
Park Planning and Development
Provides for park planning, capital improvement program management, project design, and construction management 
services through the use of both in-house and professional consultant resources. 
Administrative Services
Coordinates the department’s administrative and business services that support operational units, thereby maximizing our 
efficiency and effectiveness in areas such as internal work-flow, customer service, marketing, and budget management.    
Recreation and Community Services
Provides a comprehensive program of recreational, instructional, and community-building activities for all age groups 
utilizing community centers, aquatic facilities, numerous parks and school sites.
Parks and Recreation
106
850 of 1111

--- page 851 ---
Parks and Recreation
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
12,984,517 
$ 
12,938,837 
Operating
 8,048,729 
 8,437,701 
Indirect & Overhead 
 1,996,197 
 2,117,151 
Capital Outlay
 161,000 
 26,000 
Total Expenditures
$ 
23,190,443 
$ 
23,519,690 
Expenditures by Cost Center 
 Arborist 
$ 
1,341,599 
$ 
1,356,076 
Community Services
 10,435,228 
 10,559,688 
Golf Services
 2,956,150 
 3,081,789 
Park Planning
 452,928 
 433,392 
Parks & Landscapes
 7,979,531 
 8,063,738 
Parks & Rec Operations
 25,007 
 25,007 
Total Expenditures
$ 
23,190,443 
$ 
23,519,690 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
23,150,443 
$ 
23,519,690 
Internal Service Funds
40,000
- 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
23,190,443 
$ 
23,519,690 
107
851 of 1111

--- page 852 ---
Parks and Recreation
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Parks and Recreation Director
1.00 
1.00 
Administrative Technician
3.00 
3.00 
Business Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Community Services Coordinator
9.00 
9.00 
Community Services Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Community Services Section Manager
2.00 
2.00 
Community Services Supervisor
7.00 
7.00 
Custodian
1.00 
1.00 
Deputy Parks and Recreation Director
1.00 
1.00 
Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Golf Equipment Maintenance Specialist
1.00 
1.00 
Golf Services Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Irrigation Specialist
2.00 
2.00 
Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II
15.00 
15.00 
Lead Teacher
2.00
2.00
Managing Arborist
1.00 
1.00 
Park and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Park and Landscape Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Park Landscape Maintenance Worker
3.00 
3.00 
Senior Park Ranger
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Program Assistant
5.00 
5.00 
Senior Project Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Tree Maintenance Specialist
1.00 
1.00 
Total Merit
66.00
66.00
Total Per Diem
50.17
50.17
Total Positions
 116.17 
 116.17 
108
852 of 1111

--- page 853 ---
Parks and Recreation
METRICS
Landscape Resources - Parks
We provide environmental stewardship of the City’s park land, civic facilities, medians, islands, and right-of ways.
 Number of acres of developed park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands maintained ¹ 
 Cost per acre to maintain developed park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands 
 Percent of maintenance standards met at park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands 
 Percent of park visitors who agree that the park and park landscaping was well maintained 
 Percent of park visitors who reported feeling a high level of safety in our parks 
 Number of acres of developed community parks and neighborhood parks with sports fields 
 Water usage per acre at developed community parks and neighborhood parks ² 
 Percent of maximum labor captured in Cartegraph  
Landscape Resources - Trees
We provide environmental stewardship to the City’s street and park trees.
 Number of street and park trees maintained  
 Number of street and park trees pruned annually 
 Percent of street and park trees pruned annually 
 Number of new trees planted 
 Percent of street and park trees removed that are replaced by newly planted trees 
 Number of tree service requests 
 Percent of tree service requests responded to within 10 working days 
Golf
We efficiently operate an 18-hole golf course.
 Number of golf rounds played annually 
 Percent of golf tee times utilized 
 Percent of golf course operating expenses covered by revenues 
We provide a community resource.
 Number of golf course tournaments and clubhouse events facilitated annually 
Recreation
We provide opportunities for Active and Healthy Lifestyles, Creative Outlets, Creating Community, Youth Development, and Lifelong Learning.
 Number of program registrants 
 Number of special events attendees 
We balance providing affordable recreation and access for all with appropriate cost recovery through user fees.
 Percent of programs covering costs within the cost recovery target range
 Number of unduplicated youth that received fee assistance to attend Recreation programs 
¹ Target now includes acreage for medians and islands. 
² Water usage is only tracked in those neighborhood parks with significant sports turf on a calendar year.
109
853 of 1111

--- page 854 ---
Parks and Recreation
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
 Workload 
289.7
289.7
289.7
289.7
 Performance 
$ 27,000 
$ 28,000 
$ 29,000 
$ 29,000 
 Performance 
85%
85%
85%
85%
 Performance 
95%
95%
95%
95%
 Performance 
95%
95%
95%
95%
 Workload 
112.9
112.9
112.9
112.9
 Performance 
484
484
484
484
 Performance 
70%
70%
70%
70%
 Workload 
23,600
25,000
25,000
25,000
 Performance 
2,400
2,400
2,400
2,400
 Performance 
10%
10%
10%
10%
 Workload 
150
250
300
300
 Performance 
110%
125%
150%
150%
 Workload 
300
300
300
300
 Performance 
95%
95%
95%
95%
 Workload 
82,000
82,000
83,000
83,000
 Performance 
80%
82%
82%
82%
 Performance 
100%
100%
100%
100%
 Workload 
325
200
325
350
 Workload 
24,000
24,250
24,400
24,400
 Workload 
26,000
26,250
26,400
26,400
 Performance 
45%
45%
45%
45%
 Other 
650
675
700
700
110
854 of 1111

--- page 855 ---
Parks and Recreation
METRICS
Recreation (cont.)
We encourage the involvement of youth and create a safe environment for them in our community.
 Number of Recreation program registrants who are youth 
 Percent of Recreation program registrants who are youth 
 Number of youth registrants made water safe through City swim lessons 
We offer our facilities as a community resource.
 Number of public rentals occurring at recreation centers 
We have happy, satisfied customers.
 Percent of course registration occurring online 
111
855 of 1111

--- page 856 ---
Parks and Recreation
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
 Performance 
16,000
16,500
17,000
17,000
 Performance 
65%
65%
65%
65%
 Performance 
1,000
600
600
600
 Workload 
500
525
550
550
 Performance 
92%
92%
93%
93%
112
856 of 1111

--- page 857 ---
Police
113
857 of 1111

--- page 858 ---
Police
Mission Statement
Safeguarding and serving our City with professionalism, 
integrity and proactive, community-oriented policing is our 
mission.  The men and women of the San Mateo Police 
Department are progressive and professional; dedicated 
peace keepers, defenders of our community’s quality of 
life, and problem solvers protecting our community.  We 
provide a safe and secure quality of life through resolution 
of issues and problems by aligning community partnerships 
and resources through ongoing collaborations. We have 
a committed, diverse, and outstanding group of men 
and women in this department dedicated to providing 
outstanding public service.   
Accountability, compassion, collaboration, legitimacy, 
integrity and respect are our guiding principles as we 
provide service while adhering to the highest ethical 
standards. The department is dedicated to protecting 
with honor and serving with pride. We provide creative, 
proactive, and long-term solutions to issues that arise, 
strengthening and securing our neighborhoods. We strive 
to be the model police agency that others will emulate 
and a leader in the county and our profession, adopting 
creative and innovative strategies to prevent crime and 
support those most in need. We provide our services 
through a trauma-informed restorative justice approach, 
understanding that many who offend require more than jail 
to rehabilitate and restore their lives.
The Police Department is committed to improving the 
quality of life in our city, by recognizing community needs, 
forming partnerships, and working with allied agencies 
to ensure long-term resolution to crime and disorder 
issues. We will continue to do this through cutting-edge 
technology, creative solutions to problems, by respecting 
individual rights, conducting fair and non-biased policing, 
and good, old-fashioned police work.  
Services and Structure
The San Mateo Police Department is a 24/7 comprehensive 
community policing department divided into three primary 
service units: Field Operations Services; Support Services 
which includes the Investigations and Youth Services Units; 
and Communications, Records and Technology Services. 
Field Operations Services Bureau (FOSB)  
FOSB provides around-the-clock uniformed police 
protection and responds to all requests for police 
assistance. Based on a geographic service delivery model, 
staff are assigned to their patrol beats on a long-term 
basis so that patrol officers and Area Lieutenants form 
partnerships with their assigned communities to resolve 
problems and proactively prevent crime, disorder, and 
delinquency.   
Field Operations Services includes the following 
specialized units: 
•
The Traffic Unit provides enforcement of traffic
laws, expert collision investigations, and parking
enforcement while meeting our community’s traffic
safety needs. The Traffic Unit collaborates with the
Public Works Department and other allied agencies
to provide a comprehensive approach addressing
the critical factors that contribute to safe streets
(engineering, education, and enforcement) and
formulates Neighborhood Traffic Safety Action Plans
to address neighborhood traffic and parking issues.
The San Mateo Police Department Traffic Unit has fully
committed providing timely and responsive police
services to mitigate the impacts of traffic and parking
on our community, and to improve safety on our
roadways for pedestrians, bicycles, and vehicles.
•
The Crime Reduction Unit (CRU) is dedicated to the
eradication of violent crime, gang activity, drug activity,
and serial crime patterns. CRU provides proactive
targeted enforcement aimed at abating community
crime, problem locations, career criminal offenders,
and organized criminal activity, including human
trafficking and the associated activities that often lead
to the victimization of our youth.
•
The Downtown Unit serves our downtown and
surrounding areas on foot and bike patrol and is
dedicated to ensuring a safe and vibrant environment
for our business districts. These officers also serve
as a business liaison and support mechanism,
seeking long-term solutions for the chronic homeless,
inebriates, and those with mental illness. They also
work closely with the entertainment and alcohol
businesses in the downtown and other business
districts, regulating and permitting establishments,
while fostering economic development through a safe
environment in San Mateo’s busy downtown.
114
858 of 1111

--- page 859 ---
Police
•
FOSB provides special technical on-call units that
include the Special Weapons and Tactics Team
(SWAT), and the Tactical Negotiations Team (TNT).
These special units are staffed on an as-needed basis
and are used in high-risk search and arrest warrant
service, as well as being part of a regional team
responding to critical incidents involving armed and
dangerous subjects.
•
FOSB oversees the K-9 program, Field Training
Program, the Behavioral Health and Recovery Services
Mental Health Clinicians, the Homeless Outreach
Team, and provides operational support for the
Department, including the Critical Incident Response
Team and the Peer Support Unit.
Support Services 
Support Services Administration Bureau encompasses 
two major areas: support and development along with 
neighborhood outreach. Bureau operations and personnel 
provide personnel hiring and training; accounting and 
budgetary functions; facility and equipment maintenance; 
research, development, and planning; business services; 
media services; and Internal Affairs and Professional 
Standards.   
Staff in the Support Services Bureau conduct recruitments 
to ensure that our highly qualified candidates reflect 
the diverse nature of the community we serve; provide 
business and fiscal management for the department; and 
coordinate and facilitate all departmental training. Our 
Media Services Unit continues to find innovative ways 
to keep our community informed while engaging them 
in long-term problem solving strategies and information 
sharing in their neighborhoods. Our Neighborhood Watch 
Program administers over 300 Neighborhood Watch Blocks 
dedicated to partnering with their neighborhood Police 
Officers to advance safety, security, and community within 
our neighborhoods. Subscribers to our Community Alert 
System and social media outlets currently exceeds 165,000 
and continues to increase as we further efforts to enhance 
community awareness.
Investigations and Youth Services Bureau 
Investigations and Youth Services conducts major 
investigations into crimes against persons, property, 
businesses, and institutions. Detectives track and monitor 
sexual registrants, drug registrants, and early release 
prisoners placed on Post Released Community Supervision 
(PRCS). Investigation Services is responsible for covert 
operations directed toward the apprehension of the most 
serious and career criminals. Detectives prepare cases for 
prosecution and develop expertise in specific specialty 
investigations, including crimes against the elderly, 
domestic violence, and high-tech crimes. Our Investigations 
Services Bureau focuses on special and vulnerable victims 
of crime, working with service providers to reduce the harm 
to victims. 
Our Youth Services Unit (YSU), is responsible for oversight 
of youth programs encompassing a balanced approach 
of professionalism, integrity, and excellence. The unit 
consists of the popular and highly effective San Mateo 
Police Activities League (SM PAL), as well as Youth 
Services Officers (YSO). The YSU encompasses crime and 
prevention efforts aimed at our youth who are suspects 
or victims of crime or gang or bullying efforts. The YSU 
enacted a trail blazing Diversion Program with a goal of 
reducing the number of youth introduced into the juvenile 
justice system. Our Diversion Program is a leader for the 
County, and has received funding from the County to 
regionalize the program and hire counseling for troubled 
youth and their families, thereby increasing the resiliency 
and support for these youth to get back on track, stay in 
school, and out of trouble. 
Communications, Records and Technology Services 
The Communications, Records and Technology Division 
provides outstanding infrastructure to front line operations 
in all aspects. The division is responsible for providing a 
high level of customer service while taking and dispatching 
emergency calls; receiving, processing and storing police 
records and property in accordance with all applicable 
laws; operating computer systems and applications 
management; and managing and integrating technology 
into police operations.
Staff in the unit provide a highly professional 24 hour 
emergency communications dispatch center which 
receives and dispatches 911 calls and requests for services; 
maintain accurate police records, property and evidence 
functions in accordance with all required laws; and manage 
the implementation and maintenance of department 
technology, keeping a vision on the future and a priority 
on integrating sustainable solutions. The unit is also 
responsible for ensuring the ongoing vitality of citywide 
radio and communications infrastructure.
115
859 of 1111

--- page 860 ---
Police
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
54,896,812 
$ 
57,208,296 
Operating
 9,725,419 
 9,809,179 
Indirect & Overhead 
 968,361 
 990,552 
Capital Outlay
 341,000 
 77,000 
Total Expenditures
$ 
65,931,592 
$  68,085,027 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Communications, Records & Technology Admin
$ 
2,438,748 
$ 
2,708,544 
Crime Reduction Unit
 4,073,965 
 3,540,644 
Criminal Investigations
 5,093,309 
 5,902,718 
Dispatch
 3,588,164 
 4,473,794 
Downtown Security
 154,740 
 785,671 
Enrichment Activities
 75,303 
 78,403 
Facilities and Overhead
 985,751 
 1,035,494 
Field Operations Admin Unit
 1,635,117 
 1,861,996 
PAL Life Skills/Leadership
 81,831 
 87,104 
Parking Enforcement
 1,770,437 
 1,776,253 
Patrol Unit
 29,739,173 
 30,059,023 
Police Youth Services
 2,181,981 
 2,319,481 
Prevention/Intervention
 132,729 
 140,894 
Program Support
 212,056 
 236,189 
Records & Property
 1,570,393 
 1,824,466 
Sports Development
 79,080 
 84,746 
Support Services Admin
 8,433,077 
 7,586,887 
Traffic Unit
 3,685,738 
 3,582,720 
Total Expenditures
$ 
65,931,592 
$  68,085,027 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
63,787,941 
$   66,284,984 
Special Revenue Funds
 2,143,651 
 1,800,043 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
65,931,592 
$  68,085,027 
116
860 of 1111

--- page 861 ---
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Chief of Police
1.00 
1.00 
Administrative Assistant
2.00 
2.00 
Administrative Technician
1.00 
1.00 
Business Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Community Service Officer I/II
5.00 
5.00 
Crime and Intelligence Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Dispatch Services Supervisor
2.00 
2.00 
Dispatcher
12.00
12.00
Management Analyst I/II
2.00 
2.00 
Police Captain
2.00 
2.00 
Police Communications and Public Relations Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Police Digital Forensic Specialist
1.00 
1.00 
Police Evidence Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Police Lieutenant
6.00 
6.00 
Police Officer
90.00 
90.00 
Police Records Specialist I/II
5.00 
5.00 
Police Records Supervisor
2.00 
2.00 
Police Sergeant
17.00 
17.00 
Police Support Services Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Police Technical Services Administrator
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Business Systems Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Community Service Officer
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Dispatcher
2.00
2.00
Senior Management Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Police Records Specialist
2.00 
2.00 
Vehicle Abatement Officer
2.00 
2.00 
Total Merit
163.00
163.00
Total Per Diem
12.75
11.96
Total Positions
 175.75 
174.96
Police
117
861 of 1111

--- page 862 ---
Police
METRICS
Field Operating Services
We take a collaborative approach to address critical factors that contribute to safe streets, and strive to increase safety through implementation of 
comprehensive Traffic Action Plans conducted in targeted areas based on violations, complaints, and collision data; and seek to mitigate the impact 
of traffic and parking violations on neighborhoods.  
Number of pedestrian or bicycle collisions with motor vehicles 
Number of drunk driving arrests
Number of Abandoned Vehicle Complaints
Percent of reported abandoned vehicle complaints resolved w/in 5 calendar days 
Number of parking citations issued
We work to maintain a safe, secure City through smart policing tactics and data driven strategic policing through prevention, intervention, and 
enforcement.
Number of SMPD calls for service
Number of officer-initiated incidents
Number of reported incidents of violent crime (murder, rape, robbery, aggravated assault)
Number of reported incidents of property crime (burglary, motor vehicle theft, auto burglary, larceny, arson)
We conduct outreach and intervention to assist those experiencing homelessness, mental health crises, or in need of other social services.
Number of Community Wellness and Crisis Response Team calls for service
Number of homeless outreach referrals to services 
Support Services 
We recruit and conduct background investigations to identify highly qualified candidates for hire to join the Police Department
Number of sworn police officers hired
Number of professional staff hired
We offer youth services aimed at providing intervention and diverting juveniles from the Criminal Justice System.
Number of juveniles diverted from the court system to the Youth Services Division
Number of youth participating in Police Activities League prevention/intervention programs
We seek to enhance community awareness and engagement through innovative messaging, along with conventional and social media 
Number of subscribers to the Police Department's Community Alert System and social media
Number of media inquiries answered
Number of press releases issued
Number of officer visits to schools and community events
Our staff is devoted to protecting with honor and serving with pride by providing ethical and compassionate service to our public.
Survey respondent average rating of overall satisfaction with police services on a scale of 1-5
118
862 of 1111

--- page 863 ---
Police
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
89
80
N/A
N/A
Workload
270
250
N/A
N/A
Workload
3,530
4,500
N/A
N/A
Performance
100%
99%
95%
95%
Workload
60,279
56,000
N/A
N/A
Workload
72,677
73,300
N/A
N/A
Workload
29,784
28,500
N/A
N/A
Workload
753
800
N/A
N/A
Workload
1,828
1,950
N/A
N/A
Workload
158
150
N/A
N/A
Workload
850
700
N/A
N/A
Workload
18
10
N/A
N/A
Workload
18
12
N/A
N/A
Workload
39
70
50
50
Workload
2,982
4,000
4,100
4,200
Other
181,177
187,000
190,000
195,000
Workload
210
225
N/A
N/A
Workload
83
100
N/A
N/A
Other
58
65
65
70
Performance
4.38
4.37
4.5
4.5
119
863 of 1111

--- page 864 ---
METRICS
Communications, Records and Technology
We strive to quickly respond to all emergencies.
Total 911 calls answered
Number of Priority 1 calls (*reclassified in FY22/23 to exclude 911 hangups)
Average response time from dispatch of a Priority 1 call to arrival of responding officer
Average answering time from moment call enters system to time it takes to answer
Percentage of Priority 1 calls dispatched within 90 seconds of receipt
Police
120
864 of 1111

--- page 865 ---
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Performance
29,208
31,100
N/A
N/A
Performance
305
320
N/A
N/A
Performance
5 min; 22 sec
4 min; 56 sec
<7 minutes
<7 minutes
Performance
99.5% answered w/in 
15 seconds
99.4% answered w/in 
15 seconds
95% answered w/in 15 
seconds
95% answered w/in 15 
seconds
Performance
98%
99%
90%
90%
Police
121
865 of 1111

--- page 866 ---
Public Works
122
866 of 1111

--- page 867 ---
Mission Statement
Enhancing the community and its environment by providing 
sustainable stewardship and innovative approaches to 
Public Works services.
Overview 
The Public Works Department is separated into two 
strategic Sections for optimal performance and 
integration - Environmental Services and Engineering 
Services. The two Sections work together to meet the 
needs of the community. 
Services and Structure
Environmental Services Division
The Environmental Services Section is comprised of four 
main Divisions, including the (1) Wastewater Treatment 
Plant, (2) Clean Water Program, (3) Field Maintenance, 
and (4) Data Management, with multiple subprograms to 
provide specific services for the community.
•
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) includes
the administration, management, operation, and
maintenance of the facility, including laboratory
services. As a sub-regional facility, the WWTP
provides treatment of sanitary sewage to neighboring
communities and is partially owned by Foster City.
The WWTP protects the public health and water
environment of the community by providing high
quality wastewater treatment services in compliance
with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) permit, and Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Program (SWPPP) as required by the State
Industrial General Permit (IGP).
•
Clean Water Program is the 10-year, $1 billion program
encompassing capital improvements to the sanitary
sewer collection system and WWTP necessary to
replace aging infrastructure, provide wet weather
capacity assurance, meet current and future regulatory
requirements, and align with the City’s sustainability
goals.
•
Field Maintenance is comprised of specialized
programs to maintain the City’s streets, sewer
and storm system infrastructure, and flood control
systems. This division provides services, repair, and
maintenance of streets, bridges, sidewalks, bike paths,
signs and markings, sewer collection infrastructure,
storm drains, traffic signals, streetlights, and street
sweeping.
Public Works
•
Data Management is responsible for the development
and administration of the Department’s asset
management platform and Geographic Information
System and for building and maintaining the City’s
infrastructure database.
Engineering Services Division
The Engineering Services Section consists of four main 
Divisions, including (1) Engineering, (2) Facilities and Fleet 
Services, (3) Regulatory Compliance, and (4) Transportation 
(including Traffic Engineering, Right-of-Way/Permitting, 
Private Development, and Transportation Planning).
•
Engineering provides design and construction
management services for capital improvement
projects to improve the City’s streets, sewer, and storm
drain systems. This includes design and construction
to reduce failed streets as identified by the City
Council.
•
Facilities and Fleet Services is responsible for
providing centralized maintenance for all City
buildings and park infrastructure. The program is
also responsible for all building and infrastructure
upgrades, remodels, and new building construction. In
addition, it provides implementation and oversight of
the fleet maintenance contractor, who services all City
vehicles.
•
Regulatory Compliance manages and implements
programs and provides compliance oversight to
meet all regulatory requirements for wastewater,
stormwater, solid waste, and air quality. The division
also provides management of the Marina Lagoon
water quality, dock construction, vegetation
management, and sand replenishment.
•
Transportation is responsible for ensuring that the
City’s traffic and transportation infrastructure is
operated safely and efficiently. The program works
on issues at the local and regional levels, performs
studies to identify solutions, evaluates traffic impacts
of developments, provides traffic and transportation
related designs for the Capital Improvement Program,
and traffic signal coordination. This division is also
responsible for ensuring improvements in the public
right-of-way and private developments are built to
the appropriate quality standards to ensure a safe,
accessible, and aesthetically pleasing public right-of-
way.
123
867 of 1111

--- page 868 ---
Public Works
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
$ 
26,350,871 
$   26,277,349 
Operating
 29,200,845 
 28,138,888 
Indirect & Overhead 
 3,598,715 
 3,699,748 
Capital Outlay
 448,593 
 1,477,300 
Total Expenditures
$ 
59,599,024 
$   59,593,285 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Facilities 
$ 
3,520,978 
$ 
3,546,324 
Fleet
 2,662,687 
2,699,030
Private Development
 1,566,629 
1,692,791
Public Works Administrative Services
 1,003,567 
737,684
Sewer
 11,461,172 
11,336,946
Solid Waste Management
 3,158,939 
3,090,970
Storm
 2,294,421 
2,633,005
Streets
 4,412,044 
4,007,027
Transportation
 6,398,100 
5,973,823
Wastewater Treatment Plant
 23,120,487 
23,875,685
Total Expenditures
$ 
59,599,024 
$ 
59,593,285 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
11,958,686 
$ 
10,016,465 
Special Revenue Funds
 5,680,580 
 6,373,298 
Enterprise Funds
 35,776,093 
 36,958,168 
Internal Service Funds
 6,183,665 
 6,245,353 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
59,599,024 
$   59,593,285 
124
868 of 1111

--- page 869 ---
Public Works
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Public Works Director
1.00 
1.00 
Administrative Assistant
6.00 
6.00 
Administrative Technician
2.00 
2.00 
Associate Engineer
14.00 
14.00 
Associate Transportation Planner
1.00 
1.00 
Building Maintenance Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Business Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Calibration Technician
1.00 
1.00 
Central Services Worker
1.00 
1.00 
Construction Inspector I/II
4.00 
4.00 
Deputy Director
2.00 
2.00 
Downtown Coordinator
1.00 
1.00 
Engineering Manager
3.00 
3.00 
Engineering Technician I/II
6.00 
6.00
Environmental Compliance Inspector
3.00 
3.00 
Environmental Programs Coordinator
1.00 
1.00 
Executive Assistant
1.00 
1.00 
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Facility Maintenance Worker
4.00 
4.00 
Field Maintenance Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Fleet Services Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Instrument Control Technician
1.00 
1.00 
Laboratory Analyst I/II
4.00
4.00
Laboratory Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Laborer
1.00 
1.00 
Maintenance Planner
2.00 
2.00 
Maintenance Worker I/II
26.00 
26.00 
Management Analyst I/II
3.00 
3.00 
Principal Transportation Planner
1.00 
1.00 
Project Manager I/II
3.00 
3.00 
125
869 of 1111

--- page 870 ---
Public Works
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL 
2024-25 
ADJUSTED
BUDGET
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Public Works Maintenance Leadworker
3.00 
3.00 
Public Works Supervisor
4.00 
4.00 
Pump Station Mechanic I/II
3.00 
3.00 
Pump Station Mechanic III
1.00 
1.00 
Regulatory Compliance Manager
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Engineer
7.00 
7.00 
Senior Facility Maintenance Worker
3.00 
3.00 
Senior I&C Technician
1.00 
1.00 
Senior Management Analyst
1.00 
1.00 
Solid Waste and Recycling Program Coordinator
1.00 
1.00 
Solid Waste Technician
1.00 
1.00 
Traffic and Light Technician
2.00 
2.00 
Traffic Safety Worker
3.00 
3.00 
WWTP Electrical Technician
2.00 
2.00 
WWTP Maintenance Superintendent
1.00 
1.00 
WWTP Manager
1.00 
1.00 
WWTP Mechanic I/II
6.00 
6.00 
WWTP Mechanic III
2.00 
2.00 
WWTP Operations Superintendent
1.00 
1.00 
WWTP Operator In-Training/I/II
10.00 
10.00 
WWTP Operator III
5.00 
5.00 
WWTP Shift Supervisor
2.00 
2.00 
Waste Management Supervisor
1.00 
1.00 
Total Merit
160.00
160.00
Total Per Diem
6.04
6.04
Total Positions
 166.04 
 166.04 
126
870 of 1111

--- page 871 ---
METRICS
Clean Water Program
Feet of sewer pipe rehabilitated annually
Number of Private Sewer Lateral Program applicants completing sewer lateral replacement
Engineering Services - Capital Improvement Program
Citywide Pavement Condition Index (PCI)
Number of street miles in street inventory with PCI 30 or less
Engineering Services - Transportation and Private Development
Number of planning applications received
Percent of planning applications reviewed within 20 days
Number of building permits received
Percent of building permits reviewed within 20 days
Percent of customer satisfaction score of 3 or higher at PW Counter (Scale: 1 - 5, 1 = Not Satisfied 5 = Extremely Satisfied)
Facilities
Percent of graffiti removed from City facilities or Right of Way within 48 hours of reporting by contractor
Percent of non-emergency rolling fleet that are sustainable
Field Maintenance
Number of miles of sewer main cleaned
Percent of sewer pump stations inspected with quarterly preventative maintenance performed
Number of sidewalk tripping hazards reported
Percentage of sidewalk tripping hazards addressed within 7 days (patch or barricade)
Percent of traffic signals with semi-annual preventive maintenance performed 
Percent of streetlights with semi-annual preventative maintenance performed
Number of Sanitary Sewer Overflows 
Regulatory Compliance
Percent of regulatory requirements (reports) completed on schedule
Percent trash reduction in storm water
Number of illegal dumping incidents reported
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Percentage of days per year the Wastewater Treatment Plant was in full compliance with water, air, and hazardous materials regulations 
Number of million gallons of wastewater treated at the City's wastewater treatment plant
Cost of treatment at the City's wastewater treatment plant per millions of gallons
Public Works
127
871 of 1111

--- page 872 ---
Public Works
TYPE
2023-24 
 RESULTS
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
TARGET
2026-27
TARGET
Workload
28,000
28,000
7,000
7,000
Performance
150
100
100
100
 
 
 
Performance
72
73
73
73
Performance
7.86
<5
<5
<5
 
 
 
Workload
110
80
85
90
Performance
70%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
1,200
1,000
1,050
1,100
Performance
85%
85%
85%
85%
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
 
 
 
Performance
98%
98%
98%
98%
Performance
45%
47%
55%
65%
 
 
 
Workload
351
285
285
285
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Workload
84
90
90
90
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
50%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Workload
<10 
<12
<12
<10
 
 
 
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
90%
98%
100%
100%
Workload
2,809
2,800
2,300
2,300
 
 
 
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Workload
4,000
3,800
3,800
3,800
Workload
$ 3,500 
$ 3,600 
$ 3,600 
$ 6,184 
128
872 of 1111

--- page 873 ---
Non-Departmental
129
873 of 1111

--- page 874 ---
Non-Departmental
FINANCIALS
 2024-25 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
Expenditures by Category
Operating
$ 
62,876,394 
$ 
 
68,750,147 
Debt Service
 29,127,341 
 34,688,132 
Indirect & Overhead 
 613,526 
647,702
Total Expenditures
$ 
92,617,261 
$  104,085,981 
Funding Sources
General Funds
$ 
5,007,083 
$ 
6,121,556 
Special Revenue Funds
 97,064 
 5,958,707 
Enterprise Funds 
 22,520,425 
 28,537,571 
Internal Service Funds
 59,096,394 
 63,468,147 
Total Funding Sources
$ 
92,617,261 
$  104,085,981 
Overview 
In addition to expenditures that are directly related to departmental operations, there are also significant expenditures that 
are not directly attributable to the departments. The largest of the non-departmental expenditures is related to our internal 
services mechanism. To reflect the full cost of operations in departmental budgets, the cost of benefits (medical, dental, 
pension, etc.) and vehicle/equipment replacement is included in those budgets. To administer these programs in an efficient 
manner, the actual funds from each department are collected into a series of internal service funds, which consolidate the 
monies to pay for the benefits and vehicle/equipment replacements. Internal service fund expenses are not included in the 
total operating budget, as they are already incorporated into each department’s operations.
The second largest non-departmental expenditure reflects the City’s contribution to San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department (SMC Fire), a joint powers authority (JPA) between the City of Belmont, City of Foster City, and City of San 
Mateo, for fire services. Operations in SMC Fire commenced in January 2019, and in accordance with the JPA, its costs are 
allocated 20% each to Foster City and Belmont, and 60% to San Mateo. For 2025-26, the City’s contribution amounts to 
$31.0 million. 
The non-departmental budget for 2025-26 also includes $7.7 million in net legacy costs for pension liability, workers’ 
compensation, and retiree medical related to retirees and former employees from the City’s fire operations that have 
transferred to SMC Fire. Combined with the contribution to SMC Fire, the City’s cost for fire services totals $38.7 million for 
2025-26.  
Another large non-departmental expenditure is the payment of debt service. This includes payment for the library general 
obligation bonds, golf bonds, sewer bonds, lease revenue bonds related to the funding of the police administration 
building, and lease revenue bonds for street and flood control improvements. 
Finally, the General Fund contribution to the Comprehensive Liability Fund is included as part of non-departmental 
expenditures. The amount for 2025-26 is $4.4 million. 
130
874 of 1111

--- page 875 ---
Fund
Information
131
875 of 1111

--- page 876 ---
Introduction
Other Funds
As noted previously, the City of San Mateo’s budget is organized on the basis of the fund accounting system, and each fund 
is considered a separate budgeting entity. For each fund, there is a ten-year financial plan, a five-year financial plan, or a 
two-year financial plan provided in this section of the budget document. In addition to the General Fund, whose ten-year 
plan is included in the Budget Overview section of this budget document, a ten-year plan has been created for the Sewer 
Enterprise Fund. Unlike the financial statements, which are done on an accrual accounting basis, the ten-year plan for the 
Sewer Enterprise Fund is done on a cash basis since cash flow is an essential component of the fund’s financial health.  
Five-year financial plans have been created for the majority of special revenue funds, and all of the capital and internal 
service funds. The duration of five years was selected to be able to identify trends beyond the two-year budget cycle but 
not stretch the forecasting process out as far as was done with the Sewer Enterprise Fund. This duration will be evaluated 
annually, and if it is determined there is greater value to planning for a longer duration for some or all of these funds, the 
financial plans will be pushed out to ten years. For the grant special revenue funds, housing special revenue funds, and 
debt service funds, the financial plans were set at two years due to the nature of the funds themselves. Grant funding is 
typically evaluated and renewed on an annual basis, so long-term planning for grant funding has somewhat limited value.
Below is a summary table of all other funds and the duration of each fund’s financial plan:
FUND NAME
FUND TYPE
FINANCIAL PLAN DURATION
Police Grants and Safety
Special Revenue
2 Years
Solid Waste
Special Revenue
5 Years
HOME
Special Revenue
2 Years
Community Development Block Grant 
Special Revenue
2 Years
Advance Planning
Special Revenue
5 Years
Construction Services
Special Revenue
5 Years
Gas Tax
Special Revenue
5 Years
City Housing
Special Revenue
2 Years
Low & Moderate Income Housing Asset
Special Revenue
2 Years
Parks & Recreation Revenue
Special Revenue
5 Years
Traffic Impact Fee
Special Revenue
5 Years
Commercial Linkage Fee
Special Revenue
5 Years
Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation Account
Special Revenue
5 Years
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
Special Revenue
2 Years
Landfill
Special Revenue
2 Years
Street & Flood Control Projects Bond
Debt Service
2 Years
General Obligation Bonds
Debt Service
2 Years
2% Hotel Tax
Debt Service
5 Years
Sewer
Enterprise
5 Years
Storm
Enterprise
5 Years
Vehicle & Equipment Replacement
Internal Services
5 Years
Fleet & Building Maintenance
Internal Services
5 Years
Benefits
Internal Services
5 Years
Dental
Internal Services
5 Years
Worker's Compensation Insurance
Internal Services
5 Years
Comprehensive Liability
Internal Services
5 Years
132
876 of 1111

--- page 877 ---
Special Revenue
133
877 of 1111

--- page 878 ---
Police Grants and Safety Fund
Police Grants & Safety Fund
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
392
$                    
531
$                    
557
$                    
149
$                    
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                     15  $                        6  $                        6  $                        6 
Asset Seizure
                      219                       200                          -                            -   
State Grants
                      778                       841                       635                       640 
Other
                      181                       426                       561                       333 
Total Revenues
1,193
$                 
1,472
$                 
1,202
$                 
979
$                    
Expenditures
Personnel
883
$                    
863
$                    
835
$                    
810
$                    
Operating
78
                        
487
                      
699
                      
297
                      
Capital Outlay
93
                        
97
                        
77
                        
-
                       
Total Expenditures
1,054
$                 
1,447
$                 
1,610
$                 
1,107
$                 
Ending Fund Balance
531
$                    
557
$                    
149
$                    
20
$                      
Values are shown in thousands.
The purpose of the Police Grants and Safety Fund is to receive and track all Police Department grant revenue, asset forfeiture revenue, and corresponding expenditures in accordance with prescribed 
regulations. Revenues for this fund are comprised of state and federal asset forfeiture funds, and grant funds from sources such as the Citizens' Option for Public Safety Program's Supplemental Law 
Enforcement Services Funds (COPS/SLESF); the State Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) Grant; the State Department of Justice Tobacco Grant Program; and the State Organized Retail Theft (ORT) Prevention 
Grant Program.
The COPS/SLESF grant was established in 1996. Compliant cities are allocated a proportionate share of COPS funds by the State for the exclusive purpose of funding supplemental front line law 
enforcement services. Under the standard grant program allocation, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive a minimum grant amount of $100,000 each year, with additional proportionate shares 
based on population estimates determined by the California Department of Finance. Funds for this program cannot supplant existing funding and are to be used for personnel and/or equipment. In the 
2025-26 budget, proceeds from this grant will cover the cost of two partial traffic officer positions. While the COPS program is intended to be ongoing and permanent, there is no guarantee that continued 
funding will be available. However, the forecast assumes this fund will remain operating as usual.
The California Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) was created to administer funds and provide grants to both the San Mateo Police Department and regionally to San Mateo County for the purpose of reducing 
traffic deaths, injuries, and economic losses. Each year, eligible agencies compete for available funds by submitting proposals and although OTS does not have sufficient funds for all submissions, all 
proposals are reviewed against several criteria, including the potential traffic safety impact, collision statistics, seriousness of identified problems, and performance on previous grants. San Mateo has 
been a recipient of this grant annually since 1996. In the 2025-26 budget, proceeds from this grant will provide additional resources to combat impaired driving; enforce traffic laws; and conduct 
sobriety/driver license checkpoints, DUI saturation patrols, and targeted pedestrian/bicycle safety enforcement operations to help achieve the overarching goal of reducing injury traffic collisions.
The 2025-26 budget also reflects expenditures planned as a result of a grant awarded from the California Department of Justice for the Proposition 56 Tobacco Grant Program. This grant funds a Police 
Officer position focused on anti-vaping/tobacco enforcement, education and outreach activities. The total grant award is $651,800 to be expended over the course of three years. The 2025-2026 fiscal 
year will be the first full year of this grant award.
The Board of State and Community Corrections Organized Retail Theft (ORT) Prevention Grant Program was established in 2022, with funds designated in the Budget Act of 2022 (Senate Bill 154) as a 
competitive grant to support law enforcement agencies in preventing and responding to organized retail theft.  The San Mateo Police Department collaborated with the Cities of Daly City and San Bruno to 
successfully apply for a share of these funds, and the City of San Mateo was awarded $1,533,802 to be expended over a three-year term, concluding in Fiscal year 2027.  The funds are for a variety of 
strategies to combat retail theft such as conducting targeted security details, creating workspace/substations near retail, implementing new technologies and other programs.   
The financial plan being presented represents the best estimate of grant revenues and the spending plan as of the update of the budget. Each aspect will be monitored and adjustments may be made as 
necessary to keep the fund's balance positive.
134
878 of 1111

--- page 879 ---
Solid Waste Fund
Solid Waste
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
14,160
$               
14,423
$               
14,597
$               
13,477
$               
12,858
$               
12,167
$               
11,402
$               
Revenues
Interest Earnings
706
$
 
560
$
 
160
$
 
160
$
 
160
$
 
160
$
 
160
$
 
Grants
106
 
11
 
60
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Service Charges
3,431
 
3,243
 
3,252
 
3,286
 
3,322
 
3,358
 
3,396
 
Other Revenues
50
 
187
 
266
 
272
 
277
 
283
 
289
 
Total Revenues
4,294
$
 
4,001
$
 
3,738
$
 
3,718
$
 
3,759
$
 
3,802
$
 
3,845
$
 
Expenditures
Personnel
1,764
$
 
2,108
$
 
2,158
$
 
2,222
$
 
2,287
$
 
2,355
$
 
2,425
$
 
Operating
1,534
 
1,413
 
1,747
 
1,783
 
1,820
 
1,859
 
1,898
 
Indirect and Overhead Charges 
291
 
305
 
313
 
323
 
332
 
342
 
351
 
Capital Outlay 
4 
 -
641
 
10
 
10
 
10
 
10
 
Total Expenditures
3,593
$
 
3,827
$
 
4,858
$
 
4,337
$
 
4,450
$
 
4,566
$
 
4,685
$
 
Transfer Out
437
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
Ending Fund Balance
14,423
$               
14,597
$               
13,477
$               
12,858
$               
12,167
$               
11,402
$               
10,563
$               
Values are shown in thousands.
The Solid Waste Fund accounts for garbage collection surcharge revenues, which are restricted by City ordinance to be used for street cleaning and waste 
management. The street cleaning aspect of this fund consists of keeping 204 curb miles of streets swept, as well as cleaning and maintaining City-owned parking 
lots. The waste management aspect of this fund involves the coordination and oversight of a range of programs and activities that provide the community with 
solid waste and recycling services.  
Included in the service charges is $150,000 per year that the fund receives through the garbage collection provider for capital improvements related to the trash 
load reduction requirements of the Municipal Regional Plan issued by the Regional Quality Control Board. Fund balance has accumulated in this fund as 
expenditures have been lower than expected over the past several years. Going forward, services for street cleaning and waste management will continue to be 
evaluated to ensure that the level of support being provided is sufficient. Service charges will continue to be evaluated and adjusted as necessary to ensure 
alignment with expected expenditures and appropriate reserve levels.
135
879 of 1111

--- page 880 ---
HOME Fund
HOME Fund
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
403
$                    
483
$                    
497
$                    
502
$                    
Revenues
Loan Payments
 $                     82  $                     15  $                     15  $                     15 
Total Revenues
82
$                      
15
$                      
15
$                      
15
$                      
Expenditures
Personnel
1
$                        
1
$                        
-
$                     
-
$                     
Operating
-
$                     
-
$                     
10
$                      
10
$                      
Total Expenditures
1
$                        
1
$                        
10
$                      
10
$                      
Ending Fund Balance
483
$                    
497
$                    
502
$                    
507
$                    
Values are shown in thousands.
The HOME Investment Partnership (HOME) Program is a federal grant used to assist rental and homeownership housing opportunities for households up to 60-80% 
of the median income. The City received an annual HOME grant from 1994 to 2016. The fund now includes program income from loan repayments from loans 
funded with HOME monies in the past. 
The program income from prior HOME loans will continue to be collected, and potential projects will be identified as the fund balance reaches an appropriate level. 
Accumulated resources fund HOME-eligible uses, such as new construction of housing, acquisition and rehabilitation of existing buildings, and down payment 
assistance. 
136
880 of 1111

--- page 881 ---
Community Development Block Grant Fund
CDBG Fund
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
 Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
           Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
405
$                   
391
$                   
549
$                   
185
$                   
Revenues
Intergovernmental Contributions
 $                  181  $                  754  $                  732  $                  754 
Loan Payments
                       22                          8                          8                          8 
Total Revenues
204
$                   
762
$                   
740
$                   
762
$                   
Expenditures
Personnel
45
$                     
25
$                     
8
$                       
28
$                     
Operating
155
                     
342
                     
461
                     
364
                     
Indirect & Overhead
18
                       
19
                       
19
                       
20
                       
Total Expenditures
218
$                   
385
$                   
487
$                   
412
$                   
Transfer Out
-
$                    
219
$                   
617
$                   
617
$                   
Ending Fund Balance
391
$                   
549
$                   
185
$                   
(82)
$                    
Values are shown in thousands.
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program is a federal grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that provides flexible 
funding for community development projects and programs to assist lower income neighborhoods and households up to 80% of the median income. San Mateo has 
participated in this program since 1977. The fund consists of draws against the grant letter of credit, as well as program income from loan repayments from loans 
funded with CDBG in the past. The letter of credit consists of prior year unexpended funds in addition to the annual grant. These funds are held by HUD and drawn
down on a reimbursement basis to the City.
For the next two years, CDBG funds will be used for Community Funding grants to local social service agencies who serve lower income residents, facility repairs for 
local service agencies, minor home repairs to lower income homeowners, pedestrian and bike improvements in North Shoreview and North Central neighborhoods,
and program administration. 
137
881 of 1111

--- page 882 ---
Advance Planning Fund
Advance Planning
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
5,105
$                
5,841
$                
6,071
$                
5,764
$                
5,284
$                
4,497
$                
3,661
$                
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                   255  $                   100  $                   100  $                   100  $                   100  $                   100  $                   100 
General Plan Maintenance Fee
                   1,744                    1,000                    1,700                    1,500                    1,500                    1,500                    1,500 
State Grants
                      369                         95                       250                       360                       100                       100                       100 
Total Revenues
2,368
$                
1,195
$                
2,050
$                
1,960
$                
1,700
$                
1,700
$                
1,700
$                
Expenditures
Personnel
637
$                   
956
$                   
1,381
$                
1,439
$                
1,482
$                
1,526
$                
1,571
$                
Operating
865
                     
653
                     
835
                     
856
                     
856
                     
856
                     
856
                     
Indirect and Overhead Charges 
130
                     
137
                     
141
                     
145
                     
150
                     
154
                     
159
                     
Total Expenditures
1,632
$                
1,745
$                
2,357
$                
2,440
$                
2,487
$                
2,536
$                
2,586
$                
Ending Fund Balance
5,841
$                
5,291
$                
5,764
$                
5,284
$                
4,497
$                
3,661
$                
2,775
$                
Values are shown in thousands.
The Advance Planning Fund accounts for the General Plan maintenance fee collected through building permits and expenditures for activities related to preparing long-
term plans and policy documents for the physical and economic development of the City, including the General Plan update. These plans and policies are used for the 
evaluation of development projects and determining priorities for public improvements.
Prior to 2021-2022, the Community Development Department increased the General Plan maintenance fee to account for the costs associated with several long-range 
planning efforts the City needs to complete. Advance Planning staff continues to monitor passage and implementation of new State legislation, the next iteration of 
the Sustainable Communities Strategy (Plan Bay Area) by the Association of Bay Area Governments and Metropolitan Transportation Commission, completing near-
term Zoning Code Amendments, preparation and adoption of the General Plan Update, creation of objective design standards for residential development, and 
implementation of general planning, zoning, and policy recommendations as directed by the City Council. In future cycles, the implementation of the General Plan 
Update and revision of the City’s various specific plans and zoning code will be funded by the Advance Planning Fund. 
138
882 of 1111

--- page 883 ---
Construction Services Fund
Construction Services
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
32,628
$               
26,934
$               
26,519
$               
20,559
$               
16,146
$               
12,973
$               
11,053
$               
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                1,609  $                1,080  $                   450  $                   450  $                   450  $                   450  $                   450 
Plan Check Fees
                   4,632                    4,177                    3,606                    4,147                    4,769                    5,484                    6,307 
Permit Fees
                   4,868                    6,099                    4,886                    5,618                    6,461                    7,430                    8,545 
Other Fees
                      533                       553                       526                       605                       696                       800                       920 
Total Revenues
11,642
$               
11,909
$               
9,468
$                 
10,820
$               
12,376
$               
14,165
$               
16,222
$               
Expenditures
Personnel
7,730
$                 
8,617
$                 
10,335
$               
10,643
$               
10,961
$               
11,288
$               
11,626
$               
Operating
2,404
                   
1,187
                   
2,660
                   
2,201
                   
2,101
                   
2,208
                   
2,330
                   
Indirect & Overhead
1,402
                   
1,470
                   
1,513
                   
1,588
                   
1,667
                   
1,749
                   
1,836
                   
Total Expenditures
11,536
$               
11,274
$               
14,507
$               
14,433
$               
14,729
$               
15,245
$               
15,792
$               
Transfer Out
5,800
$                 
1,050
$                 
920
$                    
800
$                    
820
$                    
840
$                    
860
$                    
Ending Fund Balance
26,934
$               
26,519
$               
20,559
$               
16,146
$               
12,973
$               
11,053
$               
10,623
$               
Values are shown in thousands.
The Construction Services Fund accounts for building permit revenues and expenditures for activities related to the review of private development projects to 
achieve high quality and long-term economic growth in the City. Building Division staff members also ensure that new construction meets established standards for 
health and safety, accessibility, energy efficiency, and provide public education to enhance the safety of existing buildings and better awareness of building codes. 
Over the last several years, fund balance has grown significantly. Revenue in this fund is for services to be provided over time, and therefore, the significant fund 
balance will be needed over time to provide services for existing projects in process. While revenues in the five-year plan are expected to remain stable in the near 
term, service demand is expected to remain high to fully process existing projects. This is reflected in the ending fund balance being drawn upon over the course of 
the five-year plan. 
Beginning in 2019-20, lease payments through a transfer out have been made to the General Fund for space occupied by construction services staff in City Hall. 
Additionally, a number of funding commitments were made to transfer out to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to support the digital storage of property 
records and electronic review of plans submittals, the traffic model update, and facilities improvements. 
139
883 of 1111

--- page 884 ---
Gas Tax Fund
Gas Tax
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
1,268
$                 
1,768
$                 
2,884
$                 
2,973
$                 
3,122
$                 
3,334
$                 
3,608
$                 
Revenues
State Gas Tax
 $                1,931  $                2,039  $                2,059  $                2,100  $                2,142  $                2,184  $                2,228 
Gas Tax In Lieu of Prop 42
                      962                    1,004                       990                    1,010                    1,030                    1,051                    1,072 
Interest Earnings
                         66                          40                          40                          40                          40                          40                          40 
Total Revenues
2,959
$                 
3,084
$                 
3,089
$                 
3,150
$                 
3,212
$                 
3,275
$                 
3,340
$                 
Transfer Out
2,458
$                 
1,968
$                 
3,001
$                 
3,001
$                 
3,001
$                 
3,001
$                 
3,001
$                 
Ending Fund Balance
1,768
$                 
2,884
$                 
2,973
$                 
3,122
$                 
3,334
$                 
3,608
$                 
3,948
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Gas Tax Fund accounts for gasoline tax revenues that are utilized for street-related operating and capital costs. The fund makes an annual transfer to the 
General Fund to partially offset eligible operating costs related to the City's streets and roads maintenance programs. Additionally, it makes annual contributions 
to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund various capital improvement projects.  
California's gas tax is calculated on a per-gallon basis, not as a percentage of the fuel price. This means taxpayers pay a fixed amount in tax for every gallon 
purchased, regardless of fluctuations in fuel prices.
While fuel consumption has declined in recent years due to post-COVID hybrid work patterns, gas tax revenues have remained relatively stable thanks to 
scheduled rate increases tied to inflation. According to estimates from the State Department of Finance (DOF), the City anticipates receiving $3.1 million in gas 
tax revenues in both FY 2024-25 and FY 2025-26.
The five-year plan maintains the annual transfer to the General Fund, and makes contributions to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund street 
reconstruction and rehabilitation projects. As more information becomes available on the impacts to gasoline tax revenues, this plan will be updated accordingly.
140
884 of 1111

--- page 885 ---
City Housing Fund
City Housing Fund
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
966
$                    
1,198
$                 
1,444
$                 
1,256
$                 
Revenues
Housing Fees
 $                      -    $                     50  $                     50  $                     50 
Interest Earnings
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
Miscellaneous
232
                      
211
                      
16
                        
116
                      
Total Revenues
232
$                    
261
$                    
66
$                      
166
$                    
Expenditures
Contribution to Other Agencies
-
$                     
15
$                      
47
$                      
45
$                      
Contribution to First Time Home Buyers
-
                       
-
                       
180
                      
180
                      
Operating
-
                       
-
                       
27
                        
11
                        
Total Expenditures
-
$                     
15
$                      
254
$                    
236
$                    
Ending Fund Balance
1,198
$                 
1,444
$                 
1,256
$                 
1,186
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The City Housing Fund captures a variety of housing-related revenues, including loan repayments from the defunct federal Rental Rehabilitation Program, a pro rata 
share of the original homebuyer loans at the Meadow Court housing complex, fees collected for housing loan subordination requests, and the fractional Below Market 
Rate (BMR) program in lieu fees. 
This fund can be used to assist housing-related projects when the fund balance is sufficient and appropriate projects are identified. For the next two years, funds are 
set aside to assist first-time homebuyers on purchasing housing units that the City has acquired in order to retain their below market rate status. Additionally, funds 
will be used to pay for the City membership fee for The Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County (HEART), the countywide housing trust fund, and 
for revisions to the City's BMR documents. 
141
885 of 1111

--- page 886 ---
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
4,712
$                
5,135
$                
5,351
$                
5,275
$                
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                  163  $                    75  $                    77  $                    80 
Loan Payments
                     302                      214                      214                      215 
Total Revenues
464
$                   
289
$                   
291
$                   
295
$                   
Expenditures
Personnel
35
$                     
51
$                     
47
$                     
124
$                   
Operating
5
                         
23
                       
320
                     
244
                     
Total Expenditures
41
$                     
74
$                     
367
$                   
368
$                   
Ending Fund Balance
5,135
$                
5,351
$                
5,275
$                
5,202
$                
Vales are shown in thousands.
The Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund consists of loan payments, lease payments, sale of property, and any other revenue generated from loans or 
assets held by the City as Housing Successor to the former Redevelopment Agency. State law regulates the use of these funds to support housing projects that assist 
households whose income ranges up to 80% of median income. The fund also consists of administrative costs to monitor existing housing projects, manage the 
existing loan portfolio, support homelss programs, and plan for new projects. 
142
886 of 1111

--- page 887 ---
Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
2023-24
 Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
Forecast
2027-28
Forecast
2028-29
Forecast
2029-30
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
12,286
$              
19,442
$              
3,780
$                
6,203
$                
7,121
$                
4,389
$                
6,156
$                
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                  729  $                  187  $                  187  $                  187  $                  187  $                  187  $                  187 
P&R Tax and Fees
                  7,477                      265                   4,505                   2,700                   2,700                   2,700                   2,700 
Total Revenues
8,206
$                
452
$                   
4,692
$                
2,887
$                
2,887
$                
2,887
$                
2,887
$                
Expenditures
Operating
17
$                     
18
$                     
18
$                     
19
$                     
19
$                     
20
$                     
21
$                     
Total Expenditures
17
$                     
18
$                     
18
$                     
19
$                     
19
$                     
20
$                     
21
$                     
Transfer Out
1,033
$                
16,097
$              
2,250
$                
1,950
$                
5,600
$                
1,100
$                
2,000
$                
Ending Fund Balance
19,442
$              
3,780
$                
6,203
$                
7,121
$                
4,389
$                
6,156
$                
7,023
$                
Values are shown in thousands.
The Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund accounts for parks and recreation tax, park impact fees, and park in-lieu fees. Revenue projections are based on residential 
building projects, and are thus dependent on development activity. Accumulated resources in this fund are utilized to fund parks and recreation related projects 
through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund. 
Major transfers planned for 2025-26 include a contribution to the Central Park Master Plan. Transfers planned beyond 2025-26 include citywide play area 
improvements, a downtown dog park, and repairs to the Japanese Garden. If the estimated fees do not come to fruition, we will not be able to transfer as much as 
planned to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund. We will adjust our plan in the future years to align spending with funding capacity.
143
887 of 1111

--- page 888 ---
Traffic Impact Fee Fund
Traffic Impact Fee
2023-24
            Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
          Forecast
2027-28
        Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
316
$                    
56
$                      
(2,653)
$                
(2,153)
$                
(1,563)
$                
(589)
$                   
(452)
$                   
Revenues
Interest Earnings
15
$                      
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
Traffic Impact Fees
773
                      
2,428
                   
1,350
                   
1,440
                   
1,824
                   
286
                      
2,895
                   
Total Revenues
788
$                    
2,428
$                 
1,350
$                 
1,440
$                 
1,824
$                 
286
$                    
2,895
$                 
Transfer Out
1,047
$                 
5,137
$                 
850
$                    
850
$                    
850
$                    
150
$                    
150
$                    
Ending Fund Balance
56
$                      
(2,653)
$                
(2,153)
$                
(1,563)
$                
(589)
$                   
(452)
$                   
2,293
$                 
Values shown in thousands.
The Traffic Impact Fee Fund accounts for revenues that are collected to fund various capital projects to mitigate the traffic related cumulative impacts of new 
development. Revenues from this fund have contributed to traffic calming projects, construction costs of new traffic signals, and infrustructure projects such as the 
25th Ave. Grade Separation Project, which was completed in 2021, and the Railroad Avenue Wall Enhancement project. In the five-year Capital Improvement Plan, 
transfers are being made to fund bicycle projects and the Citywide Traffic Calming project.
Since the Traffic Impact Fees are closely related to the status of new development projects, this revenue source is difficult to project. If the funding projections do not 
come to fruition, the capital improvement projects programmed to be funded out of this revenue source will be reviewed and evaluated for proper funding and 
adjustments will have to be made in the out years of this five-year forecast.
144
888 of 1111

--- page 889 ---
Commercial Linkage Fee Fund
Commercial Linkage Fee
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
Forecast
2027-28
Forecast
2028-29
Forecast
2029-30
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
3,246
$                 
3,405
$                 
(550)
$                   
1,959
$                 
6,469
$                 
11,478
$               
11,987
$               
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                   164  $                     50  $                     50  $                     50  $                     50  $                     50  $                     50 
Commercial Linkage Fee
                         -                            -                      2,500                    4,500                    5,000                       500                       500 
Total Revenues
164
$                    
50
$                      
2,550
$                 
4,550
$                 
5,050
$                 
550
$                    
550
$                    
Expenditures
Operating
5
$                        
5
$                        
40
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
Total Expenditures
5
$                        
5
$                        
40
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
41
$                      
Transfer Out
-
$                         
4,000
$                 
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
Ending Fund Balance
3,405
$                 
(550)
$                   
1,959
$                 
6,469
$                 
11,478
$               
11,987
$               
12,496
$               
Values shown in thousands.
The Commercial Linkage Fee is an assessment on new commercial developments to address the impacts of new job creation on housing availability and affordability for 
workers. Developers pay a fee based on square footage of new commercial space depending on type of use: office, retail, or hotel. The funds are to be used for housing 
programs to assist workers who make up to 120% of the area median income. Examples of housing programs can include acquisition, rehabilitation, or new 
construction of housing.
The fund balance is being accumulated over the period of this forecast. Potential projects will be identified as the fund balance reaches an appropriate level. 
Accumulated resources will be utilized to fund projects through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund, and this plan will be updated accordingly.
145
889 of 1111

--- page 890 ---
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation Account
2023-24
 Actuals 
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
Forecast
2027-28
Forecast
2028-29
Forecast
2029-30
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
4,611
$          
7,493
$          
1,805
$          
2,013
$          
2,312
$          
2,708
$          
3,205
$          
Revenues
Road Maint. and Rehabilitation 
2,729
$          
2,764
$          
2,863
$          
2,949
$          
3,038
$          
3,129
$          
3,223
$          
Interest Earnings
250
               
146
               
45
                 
50
                 
58
                 
68
                 
80
                 
Total Revenues
2,979
$          
2,910
$          
2,908
$          
2,999
$          
3,096
$          
3,197
$          
3,303
$          
Transfer Out
98
$               
8,598
$          
2,700
$          
2,700
$          
2,700
$          
2,700
$          
2,700
$          
Ending Fund Balance
7,493
$          
1,805
$          
2,013
$          
2,312
$          
2,708
$          
3,205
$          
3,807
$          
Values are shown in thousands.
The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) Fund was created in 2020-21. It accounts for transportation taxes 
established by the Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 (SB 1). Prior to 2020-21, RMRA revenues were deposited in the Gas 
Tax Fund, and then subsequently transferred to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund eligible projects. Moving this 
revenue source into its own special revenue fund creates greater visibility to available resources for projects and will allow for more 
efficient reporting on how these funds are being utilized.
Based on the State Department of Finance (DOF) estimates, staff anticipates that the RMRA revenues will be approximately $2.9
million for FY 2025-26. Accumulated resources from the RMRA revenues will be utilized to fund street reconstruction and 
rehabilitation projects through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund. In the five-year plan, the annual transfers 
to CIP are estimated at $2.7 million each year. 
146
890 of 1111

--- page 891 ---
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Fund
PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION FUND
2023-24
 Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2025-26 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
3
$                       
10
$                     
10
$                     
10
$                     
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                      7  $                     -    $                     -    $                     -   
State Grants
305
293
225
300
Total Revenues
312
$                   
293
$                   
225
$                   
300
$                   
Expenditures
Personnel
27
$                     
15
$                     
9
$                       
15
$                     
Operating
278
$                   
278
$                   
216
$                   
285
$                   
Total Expenditures
305
$                   
293
$                   
225
$                   
300
$                   
Ending Fund Balance
10
$                     
10
$                     
10
$                     
10
$                     
Values are shown in thousands.
The Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) is a State Grant that is provided to the City, starting in Fall 2020, that will continue on an annual basis based on actual 
State receipts of document recording fees. These funds are flexible as long as they are used for housing-related projects and programs that assist in addressing the 
unmet housing needs of San Mateo.
The fund supports four programs to support housing security and availability in the City: an emergency shelter, a homesharing program, supportive services at the 
Montara affordable housing development, and a rapid rehousing program.
147
891 of 1111

--- page 892 ---
Landfill Fund
LANDFILL
2023-24
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
3,954
$
 
4,490
$
 
4,496
$
 
3,955
$
 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $
210  $
80  $
80  $
80 
Garbage Collection Surcharge
450 
600 
600 
600 
Total Revenues
660
$
 
680
$
 
680
$
 
680
$
 
Expenditures
Personnel
33
$
 
45
$
 
45
$
 
47
$
 
Operating
55
 
98
 
56
 
61
 
Total Expenditures
88
$
 
143
$
 
101
$
 
108
$
 
Transfer Out
 $
36  $
530  $
1,120  $
-   
Ending Fund Balance
4,490
$
 
4,496
$
 
3,955
$
 
4,527
$
 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Landfill Fund was initially set up as a debt service fund to account for debt service payments for the landfill revenue bonds. Since the landfill bonds have been paid off, starting in 
fiscal year 2024-25, the Landfill Fund has been reclassiflied to a special revenue fund. Surcharge revenues collected will be reviewed and adjusted in future years to reflect the 
reduction of the debt service obligation.
The Landfill Fund will continue to maintain a fund balance that is sufficient to meet the City's landfill closure and post-closure obligations.  
148
892 of 1111

--- page 893 ---
Debt Service
149
893 of 1111

--- page 894 ---
Street & Flood Control Project Bond
STREET & FLOOD CONTROL PROJECTS BOND
2023-24
 Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
14
$                      
30
$                      
30
$                      
26
$                      
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                     16  $                        5  $                        5  $                        5 
Total Revenues
16
$                      
5
$                        
5
$                        
5
$                        
Expenditures
Operating
63
$                      
65
$                      
67
$                      
67
$                      
Debt Service
2,629
                   
2,629
                   
2,632
                   
2,633
                   
Total Expenditures
2,692
$                 
2,695
$                 
2,699
$                 
2,700
$                 
Transfer In
2,692
$                 
2,690
$                 
2,690
$                 
2,690
$                 
Ending Fund Balance
30
$                      
30
$                      
26
$                      
21
$                      
Values are shown in thousands.
The City has two debt service funds: the Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund and the General Obligation Bonds Fund. 
The Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund is a debt service fund that accounts for debt service payments on lease revenue bonds issued in 2020 to finance the 
street and flood control improvement projects. As these improvements are part of the Measure S initiatives, revenues from Measure S are transferred into this fund to 
administer the debt services. Additionally, a benefit assessment district was created in the North Shoreview neighborhood as it relates to the flood control 
improvements.  Assessment levies are collected to pay part of the annual debt. The remaining debt service is funded by the Measure S. 
150
894 of 1111

--- page 895 ---
General Obligation Bonds
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
2023-24
 Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
6,647
$                 
7,562
$                 
7,040
$                 
6,493
$                 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
 $                   298  $                   120  $                   120  $                   120 
Property Taxes
2,725
                   
1,482
                   
1,470
                   
1,590
                   
Total Revenues
3,023
$                 
1,602
$                 
1,590
$                 
1,710
$                 
Expenditures
Operating
 $                     60  $                     62  $                     65  $                     68 
Debt Service
2,049
                   
2,062
                   
2,072
                   
2,065
                   
Total Expenditures
2,109
$                 
2,124
$                 
2,136
$                 
2,133
$                 
Ending Fund Balance
7,562
$                 
7,040
$                 
6,493
$                 
6,070
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The General Obligation Bonds Fund accounts for voter-approved property tax revenues and debt service payments on the City's general obligation bonds that were 
utilized to finance the construction, acquisition, and improvement of a new main library and the improvement of the City's branch libraries. 
Other debt of the City is housed directly in the applicable operating and capital funds, with payments for debt service listed as a line item in the financial plans.
The City is bound by a provision in state law limiting the indebtedness for California cities to 15% of the assessed value of all real and personal property of the city. 
Based on the current fiscal year's total assessed value of $36 billion, San Mateo's legal debt limit was $5.4 billion, only at 0.30% of its legal debt limit. This statutory 
limitations applies only to bonded indebtedness of the City payable from proceeds of taxes levied on a property. For San Mateo, this includes only the general 
obligation bonds.
151
895 of 1111

--- page 896 ---
2% Hotel Tax Fund
2% Hotel Tax
2023-24
 Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
259
$  
   
179
$  
   
257
$  
   
249
$  
   
214
$  
   
167
$  
   
108
$  
   
Revenues
Interest Earnings
14
$
 
2
$
 
2
$
 
2
$
 
2
$
 
2
$
 
2
$
 
Transient Occupancy Tax
888
 
625
 
637
 
650
 
662
 
675
 
688
 
Total Revenues
901
$  
   
626
$  
   
639
$  
   
652
$  
   
664
$  
   
677
$  
   
690
$  
   
Expenditures
Operating
145
$
 
76
$
 
138
$
 
141
$
 
146
$
 
151
$
 
156
$
 
Debt Service
836
 
822
 
860
 
895
 
915
 
935
 
955
 
Total Expenditures
981
$  
   
898
$  
   
998
$  
   
1,036
$  
   
1,061
$  
   
1,086
$  
   
1,111
$  
   
Transfer In
-
$  
  
350
$ 
   
350
$  
   
350
$  
   
350
$  
   
350
$  
   
350
$  
   
Ending Fund Balance
179
$  
  
257
$ 
   
249
$  
   
214
$  
   
167
$  
   
108
$  
   
38
$  
   
Values are shown in thousands.
The 2% Hotel Tax Fund accounts for the Measure C voter-approved 2% hotel tax revenue, the related transfers to the Capital Improvement Program Fund, and the 
debt service on the variable rate bonds that were utilized to partially fund the police administration facility.
Due to the closure of a major hotel in May 2024, we have adjusted the revenue projections. Hotel taxes are expected to decrease from $1.0 million to $0.5 million by 
the end of fiscal year 2024-25 with moderate growth in the following years. Additionally, rising interest costs from variable rate bonds pose further challenges. 
Consequently, ongoing support from the General Fund, approximately $350,000 annually, will be required to maintain a positive fund balance.
152
896 of 1111

--- page 897 ---
Enterprise
153
897 of 1111

--- page 898 ---
Sewer Fund
Sewer Fund (CASH BASIS)
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
196,290
$    
184,575
$    
294,963
$    
296,443
$    
297,960
$    
291,356
$    
298,196
$    
Revenues
Interest Earnings
9,343
$ 
  
6,450
$ 
  
5,000
$ 
  
5,000
$ 
  
5,000
$ 
  
5,000
$ 
  
5,000
$ 
  
Operating Revenues
82,501
  
82,953
  
86,806
  
89,287
  
91,870
  
94,555
  
97,341
  
Capital Contributions from Other 
7,860
  
3,369
  
3,915
  
3,993
  
4,073
  
4,154
  
4,236
  
Total Revenues
99,704
$ 
  
92,772
$ 
  
95,721
$ 
  
98,280
$ 
  
100,943
$ 
  
103,709
$ 
  
106,577
$ 
  
Expenses
Operating and Maintenance
27,442
$ 
  
26,533
$ 
  
36,758
$ 
  
38,490
$ 
  
39,351
$ 
  
40,439
$ 
  
41,554
$ 
  
Debt Service
289,182
  
15,851
  
27,843
  
29,227
  
30,601
  
30,996
  
30,147
  
Capital Projects
90,275
  
60,000
  
29,639
  
29,047
  
37,595
  
25,434
  
31,362
  
Total Expenses
406,899
$ 
  
102,384
$ 
  
94,240
$ 
  
96,763
$ 
  
107,547
$ 
  
96,869
$ 
  
103,062
$ 
  
Loan Proceeds
295,479
$ 
  
120,000
$ 
  
-
$ 
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
  
Transfer Out
-
$ 
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
  
Ending Fund Balance
184,575
$    
294,963
$    
296,443
$    
297,960
$    
291,356
$    
298,196
$    
301,710
$    
Values are shown in thousands.
The Sewer Fund consists of the sewer collection systems, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), and disposal 
facilities serving the residents and businesses of San Mateo, Foster City, and portions of the neighboring 
communities of Hillsborough, Belmont, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and certain unincorporated 
areas of the County. The sewer enterprise system currently serves approximately 30,000 customer accounts in the 
City and approximately 11,000 customer accounts in Foster City and the subregional customer communities utilizing 
the WWTP. 
The fund's financial plan consists of two elements: (1)  fiscal year (FY) 2024-25 proposed operating budget and 
forecast of future operational needs, and (2) estimated cash inflows and outflows for sewer capital improvement
projects (CIP) during the forecast period. The capital expenses identified in this financial plan, as well as the 
corresponding bond/loan proceeds, are predominantly related to the execution of the Clean Water Program, which is 
discussed in detail in the Capital Improvement Program section of this document.   The financial plan will be 
continually monitored and this plan will be updated accordingly.
Background information about the Sewer Service Charge:
In 2018, the City Council adopted a five-year sewer rate structure for fiscal years 2018-19 through 2022-23 designed 
to provide sufficient revenues to fund ongoing operations and capital projections. The 50/50 volumetric/fixed fee 
structure was implemented. The new rate structure introduced a fixed monthly fee to better stabilized revenue and
help address revenue reductions due to increased water conservation.  A recent Sewer Rate Study found that the 
past rate increases have put the City's sewer fund in a good financial position. Additionally, the City has been 
successful in getting a large amount of the Clean Water Program financed with low interest rate loans. As a result, 
only inflationary level rate increases will be required for future years.  In July 2023, the City Council approved an 
annual sewer rate increase of 3.0% for the next five years, starting FY 2023-24 through FY 2027-28. 
154
898 of 1111

--- page 899 ---
Storm Water Fund
Storm Enterprise
2024-25 
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
-
$  
  
1,737
$ 
   
1,229
$  
   
3,735
$  
   
6,767
$  
   
9,989
$  
   
Revenues
Charges for Services
 $
4,000  $
4,096  $
4,219  $
4,346  $
4,476  $
4,610 
Interest Earnings
50
 
120
 
20
 
70
 
140
 
200
 
Total Revenues
4,050
$  
   
4,216
$  
   
4,239
$  
   
4,416
$  
   
4,616
$  
   
4,810
$  
   
Expenditures
Personnel
281
$
 
375
$
 
385
$
 
395
$
 
405
$
 
416
$
 
Operating
231
 
300
 
273
 
279
 
279
 
279
 
Capital
- 
650
 
25
 
10
 
10
 
10
 
Total Expenditures
513
$  
   
1,324
$  
   
683
$  
   
684
$  
   
694
$  
   
705
$  
   
Transfer Out
1,800
$  
   
3,400
$  
   
1,050
$  
   
700
$  
   
700
$  
   
700
$  
   
Ending Fund Balance
1,737
$  
   
1,229
$  
   
3,735
$  
   
6,767
$  
   
9,989
$  
   
13,394
$  
   
Values are shown in thousands.
The City of San Mateo operates and maintains a stormwater system, which provides vital services to safeguard neighborhoods from flooding and 
protects local waterways from pollution. The system consists of complex infrastructure including surface drains, underground pipes and conduits, 
pump stations, creeks and channels, and the Marina Lagoon. The City's stormwater system requires improvements to address flood control 
capacity limitations and deficiencies related to aging infrastructure, enhanced operations and maintenance, and improvements to minimize 
pollutants in stormwater runoff as required by state and federal mandates. 
In January 2024, the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee Ballot Measure was approved by property owners. This measure allows the City 
Council to levy the Stormwater Fees starting in FY 2024-25, providing an estimated $4.0 million in the first fiscal year. The fees may be adjusted 
annually by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) up to 3%, subject to annual approval by the City Council. 
Additionally, the City aims to complete the Stormwater Master Plan by the end of calendar year 2025. This plan will assess the current state of our 
stormwater system, recommend improvements, and prioritize projects and resources based on their urgency.  The Master Plan will also assess the 
costs of capital projects and help establish a cash flow forecast to plan for financing the necessary capital improvements to our stormwater 
infrastructure. Once the plan is finalized, staff will update the budget accordingly to incorporate the new work plans.
155
899 of 1111

--- page 900 ---
Internal Services
156
900 of 1111

--- page 901 ---
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
        Forecast
2027-28
        Forecast
2028-29
      Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
18,769
$               
18,126
$               
18,495
$               
8,494
$                 
8,547
$                 
10,500
$               
8,456
$                 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
598
$                    
318
$                    
370
$                    
170
$                    
171
$                    
210
$                    
169
$                    
Interfund Replacement Collection
1,897
                   
1,844
                   
1,839
                   
1,862
                   
1,918
                   
1,976
                   
2,035
                   
Other Revenues
77
                        
5
                          
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
Total Revenues
2,572
$                 
2,166
$                 
2,209
$                 
2,032
$                 
2,089
$                 
2,186
$                 
2,204
$                 
Expenses
Vehicle Replacement
10
$                      
429
$                    
4,469
$                 
1,272
$                 
143
$                    
2,541
$                 
700
$                    
Computer Replacement
1,191
                   
365
                      
22
                        
36
                        
121
                      
191
                      
904
                      
Radio Replacement
-
                           
-
                           
673
                      
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
Major Equipment Replacement
233
                      
83
                        
6,655
                   
282
                      
282
                      
1,909
                   
578
                      
Other Capital Outlay & Depreciation
1,278
                   
34
                        
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
-
                           
Total Expenses
2,711
$                 
912
$                    
11,820
$               
1,590
$                 
546
$                    
4,640
$                 
2,183
$                 
Transfer In
410
$                    
410
$                    
410
$                    
410
$                    
410
$                    
410
$                    
410
$                    
Transfer Out
914
$                    
1,296
$                 
800
$                    
800
$                    
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
Ending Fund Balance
18,126
$               
18,495
$               
8,494
$                 
8,547
$                 
10,500
$               
8,456
$                 
8,888
$                 
Reserve for Major Building Component Replacemen
2,460
$                 
2,870
$                 
3,280
$                 
3,690
$                 
4,100
$                 
4,510
$                 
4,920
$                 
Remaining Fund Balance
15,666
$               
15,625
$               
5,214
$                 
4,857
$                 
6,400
$                 
3,946
$                 
3,968
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for charges to user departments to fund the replacement of vehicles and equipment. This includes vehicles, 
computers, radios, furniture, and other major equipment. Funds for future replacement are collected while vehicles and equipment are in service so that when it is 
time for replacement, adequate funds are available. Accumulated fund balance in this fund is estimated to be over $8 million at the end of fiscal year 2025-26. Unlike 
the Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund, which is entirely an operating fund and doesn't require a significant fund balance, the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement 
Fund should have a significant fund balance by nature. Because of that, funds will accumulate over time for replacement.
This fund collects annually from the operating departments, so it is also important that the amount of available fund balance considers this. To that end, a long-term 
spending plan is an important tool for managing this type of fund. Understanding spending needs over the short- and long-term and factoring in fund balance allows 
the City to set a collection amount that ensures funding is available when vehicles and equipment need to be replaced, but does not maintain such a large fund 
balance that creates an unneccesary burden on the other funds, particularly the General Fund. This five-year plan captures the long-term spending plans for each of 
the replacement categories, and sets future collections to ensure funding for replacements is available and fund balance is set at an appropriate level. 
The five-year plan further captures a portion of the fund balance that is reserved for major building component replacements. Since 2017-18, the General Fund has 
transferred $410,000 each year to this reserve and in 2022-23, the Sewer Fund contributed $294,000. As the reserve balance reaches an appropriate level and major 
building replacement projects are identified, the accumulated funds will be utilized to fund the projects through a transfer to the Capital Projects Fund, and this plan 
will be updated accordingly.  
157
901 of 1111

--- page 902 ---
Fleet and Building Maintenance
Fleet and Building Maintenance
2023-24
   Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
838
$                    
196
$                    
649
$                    
544
$                    
599
$                    
818
$                    
1,213
$                 
Revenues
Charges to Dept. - Building
3,566
$                 
3,566
$                 
3,816
$                 
4,045
$                 
4,247
$                 
4,459
$                 
4,682
$                 
Charges to Dept. - Fleet
1,846
                   
2,205
                   
2,317
                   
2,456
                   
2,579
                   
2,708
                   
2,844
                   
Other Revenues
6
                          
8
                          
8
                          
8
                          
8
                          
8
                          
8
                          
Total Revenues
5,418
$                 
5,779
$                 
6,140
$                 
6,508
$                 
6,834
$                 
7,175
$                 
7,533
$                 
Expenses
Personnel
1,698
$                 
1,718
$                 
2,265
$                 
2,310
$                 
2,357
$                 
2,404
$                 
2,452
$                 
Operating
3,911
                   
3,136
                   
3,495
                   
3,643
                   
3,743
                   
3,846
                   
3,952
                   
Indirect & Overhead
452
                      
471
                      
485
                      
500
                      
515
                      
530
                      
546
                      
Total Expenses
6,061
$                 
5,325
$                 
6,245
$                 
6,453
$                 
6,614
$                 
6,780
$                 
6,950
$                 
Ending Fund Balance
196
$                    
649
$                    
544
$                    
599
$                    
818
$                    
1,213
$                 
1,796
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for charges to user departments and the related expenses for maintaining City vehicles and facilities. This fund 
is primarily operational, with vehicle and equipment replacement costs tracked separately in a dedicated internal service fund. As such, charges to user 
departments should be set to closely match anticipated expenses, and there is generally no need to maintain a large fund balance. In recent years, expenses have 
outpaced revenues, prompting a gradual increase in departmental charges to ensure the fund remains financially stable and maintains an appropriate level of 
reserves.
158
902 of 1111

--- page 903 ---
Benefits Fund
Benefits
2
0
2
2
2023-24
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27
Forecast
2027-28
Forecast
2028-29
Forecast
2029-30
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
554
$             
1,084
$          
(297)
$           
(36)
$
 
265
$             
606
$             
992
$             
Revenues
Internal Service Charge - Pension
27,421
$        
29,313
$        
31,378
$        
33,040
$        
34,410
$        
37,120
$        
37,860
$        
Internal Service Charge - Social Security/Medicare
3,575
            
3,476
            
4,147
            
4,271
            
4,399
            
4,531
            
4,667
            
Internal Service Charge - Healthcare
9,321
            
10,861
          
10,911
          
11,641
          
12,354
          
13,140
          
13,909
          
Internal Service Charge - Severance Trust
1,327
            
1,513
            
1,352
            
1,420
            
1,491
            
1,566
            
1,644
            
Internal Service Charge - Other
2,873
            
2,897
            
3,268
            
3,327
            
3,387
            
3,448
            
3,510
            
Total Revenues
44,516
$        
48,060
$        
51,055
$        
53,699
$        
56,041
$        
59,805
$        
61,591
$        
Expenses
Pension
27,417
$        
30,987
$        
31,378
$        
33,040
$        
34,410
$        
37,120
$        
37,860
$        
Social Security/Medicare
3,575
            
3,476
            
4,147
            
4,271
            
4,399
            
4,531
            
4,667
            
Healthcare
9,247
            
11,186
          
10,830
          
11,560
          
12,273
          
13,059
          
13,828
          
Severance Trust
1,045
            
1,101
            
1,273
            
1,298
            
1,324
            
1,350
            
1,377
            
Other
2,702
            
2,690
            
3,166
            
3,229
            
3,293
            
3,359
            
3,426
            
Total Expenses
43,986
$        
49,441
$        
50,794
$        
53,398
$        
55,700
$        
59,419
$        
61,159
$        
Ending Fund Balance
1,084
$          
(297)
$           
(36)
$
 
265
$             
606
$             
992
$             
1,424
$          
Values are shown in thousands.
The Benefits Fund accounts for the collection of funds from operating departments to cover the cost of employee benefits. The 
expenses covered by this fund include pension, social security/medicare, retiree healthcare, the City's payment for medical 
premiums for active employees, funding for the severance trust (to pay for the cashout of unused vacation to employees who 
retire or otherwise leave the City), as well as a few other benefit costs, such as life insurance and long-term disability 
insurance. In some cases, the cost of providing these benefits is known and collections can be set accordingly. For example, 
the normal cost of pensions is set as a percentage of pay, so collections can be set based on that percentage of pay. In other 
cases, such as for the funding of the severance trust, the cost is an estimate based on historical actuals, but will fluctuate 
annually based on different factors. Thus, to accommodate the fluctuation of expenses like those related to the severance 
trust, the fund should maintain some level of fund balance. To that end, collections for the various components of this fund 
have been set to collect costs to fund the programs adequately while maintaining a level of fund balance that allows for the 
year-over-year fluctuations without requiring a transfer from the General Fund. 
The largest expense category in this fund is related to pension expenses. As discussed in detail in the Budget Overview 
section of the budget document, pension expenses are expected to increase significantly over the next five to seven years as 
the result of a number of factors. These increases will continue to put pressure on the operating funds, as a larger and larger 
percentage of the budget will be required to cover pension cost increases. 
After the transfer of the City's fire operations to SMC Fire in 2018-19, with the exception of the Bureau of Fire Protection and
Life Safety (Bureau), what remains as the City's responsibility is the former fire department employees' unfunded pension 
liability and retiree health benefits, as those costs are attributable to years of service to the City. These legacy costs are 
transferred from the General Fund and administered through this fund. Bureau activities are designed to be full cost recovery, 
so with the transition to SMC Fire, legacy pension costs for former Bureau personnel are the responsibility of SMC Fire.
Fund balance was at a low of $1.1 million at the end of fiscal year 2023-24. Staff has adjusted the collection rates for the 
following years in the the five-year plan. The long-term forecast has the fund building back up its fund balance gradually. 
Actual expenses will be analyzed over time and annual collections will be adjusted accordingly.
159
903 of 1111

--- page 904 ---
Dental Fund
Dental
2023-24 
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
999
$                    
935
$                    
999
$                    
923
$                    
837
$                    
740
$                    
632
$                    
Revenues
Internal Service Charges
752
$                    
784
$                    
779
$                    
802
$                    
826
$                    
851
$                    
877
$                    
Total Revenues
752
$                    
784
$                    
779
$                    
802
$                    
826
$                    
851
$                    
877
$                    
Expenses
Insurance Premiums
816
$                    
720
$                    
855
$                    
888
$                    
923
$                    
959
$                    
997
$                    
Total Expenses
816
$                    
720
$                    
855
$                    
888
$                    
923
$                    
959
$                    
997
$                    
Ending Fund Balance
935
$                    
999
$                    
923
$                    
837
$                    
740
$                    
632
$                    
512
$                    
Values are shown in thousands.
The Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City's self-insurance activities related to the dental plan the City provides its employees. Collections for this fund are 
made by charging departments a flat amount for each employee. Expenses in this fund consist almost entirely of the premiums the City pays on behalf of its employees 
for dental coverage. As actual expenses are analyzed over time, annual collections amounts will be adjusted accordingly.
160
904 of 1111

--- page 905 ---
Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund
Workers' Compensation Insurance
2023-24
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
 2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
6,391
$                 
7,595
$                 
6,539
$                 
4,968
$                 
3,309
$                 
1,593
$                 
1,317
$                 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
979
$                    
400
$                    
400
$                    
400
$                    
400
$                    
400
$                    
400
$                    
Internal Service Charges
4,383
                   
4,299
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
4,000
                   
4,250
                   
Total Revenues
5,363
$                 
4,699
$                 
2,900
$                 
2,900
$                 
2,900
$                 
4,400
$                 
4,650
$                 
Expenses
Personnel
403
$                    
439
$                    
441
$                    
454
$                    
467
$                    
481
$                    
495
$                    
Operating
637
                      
693
                      
1,403
                   
1,474
                   
1,514
                   
1,556
                   
1,599
                   
Claims
1,243
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
2,500
                   
Indirect Costs
117
                      
123
                      
127
                      
131
                      
135
                      
139
                      
143
                      
Acturial Adjustment
1,758
                   
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
Total Expenses
4,159
$                 
3,755
$                 
4,471
$                 
4,559
$                 
4,616
$                 
4,676
$                 
4,737
$                 
Transfer Out
-
$                     
2,000
$                 
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
-
$                     
Ending Fund Balance
7,595
$                 
6,539
$                 
4,968
$                 
3,309
$                 
1,593
$                 
1,317
$                 
1,230
$                 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers' compensation self-insurance activities. This includes the cost of claims, insurance, legal and other 
professional services, and program administration. The total cost of claims constitutes the largest expense in this fund. Workers' compensation expenses can fluctuate 
significantly year-over-year based on the total cost of claims, which includes any adjustments to the total liability of the fund due to actuarially-determined changes in 
experience. Over the past 10 years, total expenses (excluding acturial accounting adjustment) have been as high as $4.3 million and as low as $1.6 million.
Funding for the Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund comes from collections from all of the operations across all funds that include personnel. Departments are 
charged a percentage of pay for each employee, and the amount of the charge depends on the type of employee. Positions that historically have higher workers' 
compensation experience, such as sworn-in police employees, are charged a higher rate than positions with historically lower experience. Collections from 
departments are set in an effort to ensure adequate funding for this program, including having funds set aside in reserve to cover years where claims expenses are 
unusually high. 
In 2019-20, the fund received a $3.5 million transfer from the General Fund to prevent the fund from going further into a negative balance. However, based on the 
latest actuarial study, this General Fund support is no longer needed. As such, the excess $1.5 million was transferred out to support the Comprehensive Liability Fund 
in fiscal year 2021-22, and the remaining $2.0 million was transferred out to the Comprehensive Liability Fund in 2024-25. 
When the City transferred its fire operations to San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire), the department established its own Worker's Compensation Fund. 
However, claims that were incurred while the Fire employees were City employees will remain in this fund and continue to be the City's responsiblility, with the 
exception of former Fire personnel that served in the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety (Bureau), as it is a cost recovery program. While SMC Fire has paid the 
City for the present value of former Bureau legacy workers' compensation, which reflects open claims and claims that have been closed since SMC Fire commencement 
of operations, updated analysis and cost assignment may be needed as updated actuarial studies are performed in subsequent fiscal years. To that end, the City will 
prepare an annual analysis to 1) compare actuarial assumptions to the current actuarial study, including the discount rate or cost of healthcare, 2) evaluate new claims 
if the City is assigned proportional responsiblity. 
161
905 of 1111

--- page 906 ---
Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund
Comprehensive Liability Insurance
2023-24
Actuals
2024-25
Estimated 
Actuals
2025-26 
Proposed 
Budget
2026-27 
Forecast
2027-28 
Forecast
2028-29 
Forecast
2029-30 
Forecast
Beginning Fund Balance
(12,057)
$              
(2,423)
$                
(974)
$                   
(958)
$                   
(1,017)
$                
(1,006)
$                
(975)
$                   
Revenues
Interfund Charges
2,793
$                 
3,700
$                 
5,200
$                 
5,980
$                 
6,578
$                 
6,907
$                 
7,252
$                 
Investment/Interest Earnings
72
                        
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
Misc. Revenues
2
                          
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
Total Revenues
2,866
$                 
3,700
$                 
5,200
$                 
5,980
$                 
6,578
$                 
6,907
$                 
7,252
$                 
Expenses
Personnel
149
$                    
208
$                    
194
$                    
200
$                    
206
$                    
212
$                    
218
$                    
Insurance Premiums
2,300
                   
3,109
                   
4,100
                   
4,920
                   
5,412
                   
5,683
                   
5,967
                   
Claims
1,118
                   
200
                      
250
                      
250
                      
250
                      
250
                      
250
                      
Attorney's Fees
910
                      
906
                      
430
                      
452
                      
475
                      
500
                      
525
                      
Other Costs
325
                      
249
                      
210
                      
217
                      
224
                      
231
                      
238
                      
Actuarial Adjustment
(10,570)
                
(321)
                     
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
Total Expenses
(5,768)
$                
4,350
$                 
5,184
$                 
6,039
$                 
6,567
$                 
6,876
$                 
7,198
$                 
Transfer In
1,000
$                 
2,100
$                 
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
-
$                         
Ending Fund Balance
(2,423)
$                
(974)
$                   
(958)
$                   
(1,017)
$                
(1,006)
$                
(975)
$                   
(921)
$                   
Values are shown in thousands.
The Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for the City's general liability program. Expenses in this fund primarily consist of insurance premiums, the cost of 
claims, legal and other professional services, and program administration. 
For FY 2025-26, this program is budgeted at $5.2 million, an increased of $1.1. million from the prior year, primarily due to rising insurance premiums. Over the past 
ten years, the City's general liability insurance premium has increased by an average 23% annually, rising from $0.6 million in FY 2016-17 to the projected $4.1 million 
in 2025-26. If this trend continues, insurance premiums could reach $6.0 ~ $7.0 million by 2029-30, pushing the total program costs beyond $8.0 million annually. 
Although interfund charges (cost recovery revenues) have been increased, more is needed to cover future costs. As indicated in the five-year forecast, the fund is 
projected to end fiscal year 2025-26 with a negative fund. 
To help stabilize the fund, the City redirected $3.5 million in one-time General Fund support that was originally allocated to the Workers’ Compensation Fund (Fund 
870). Based on the latest actuarial report, those funds were no longer needed in Fund 870 and therefore were transferred to the Comprehensive Liability Fund (Fund 
880), $1.5 million in FY 2023-24 and $2.0 million in FY 2024-25.
The California public entity insurance marketplace has been changing dramatically in recent years, and public agencies throughout the state are seeing a significant 
increase in plaintiff demands and high dollar liability claims. Areas of concern include wildfires, dangerous conditions, road design, intersections, sidewalks, and public 
safety services. Future insurance costs will be determined by the loss run experience for the City’s General Liability Program. It is anticipated that insurance premiums 
will remain high for the next few years before any reduction is seen.
162
906 of 1111

--- page 907 ---
Five-Year Capital 
Improvement Program
163
907 of 1111

--- page 908 ---
CIP Summary 
As part of the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) budget process, departments develop project requests that 
capture the five-year capital project needs. Total project costs are developed, and funding sources are identified 
where possible. For capital projects that have been completed, any related ongoing operation or maintenance 
costs are included in the respective operating budgets. New and ongoing capital projects are prioritized and 
recommended for funding based on a review and analysis by a committee made up of the City Manager, Assistant 
City Manager, Public Works Director, Parks and Recreation Director, and Finance Director. 
Sections 65400, 65401, and 65403 of the California Planning and Land Use Government Code require the City’s 
governing body, planning, or public works commission to review public works projects proposed for the fiscal year 
to determine conformity with the adopted General Plan. The City Council reviews the Capital Improvement 
Program Budget at a study session annually in April, with the full five-year CIP program presented as part of the 
overall budget adoption process in June. During these meetings, the Council reviews the City’s five-year CIP 
recommendations, which are listed in the schedules that follow this narrative, to determine if the proposed capital 
projects are in conformance with the goals, policies, and actions contained within the General Plan. 
The five-year CIP totals $270.0 million, with $61.5 million for 2025-26. Immediately following this narrative is a list 
of all the capital projects funded in the 2025-30 CIP (“Funded Projects”). In addition, the table below summarizes 
the five-year CIP by type of capital projects. 
CAPITAL PROJECTS 
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
2026-27 
PLAN 
2027-28 
 PLAN 
2028-29 
 PLAN 
2029-30 
PLAN 
5-Year
TOTAL
Bikeway/Pedestrian 
$       4,098,820 
 $      5,563,636 
 $      1,575,000 
 $          865,000 
 $          865,000 
$    12,967,456 
Bridges 
             75,000 
              75,000 
              75,000 
    -   
-   
        225,000 
Facilities 
       5,878,742 
        4,310,000 
        3,360,000 
        4,010,000 
        6,575,000 
  24,133,742 
Parks 
      6,391,822 
        2,695,000 
        6,345,000 
        1,845,000 
        2,625,000 
   19,901,822 
Sanitary Sewer and 
Wastewater 
Management 
     29,089,000 
      28,996,805 
      37,544,930 
      25,384,035 
      31,311,652 
  152,326,422 
Stormwater 
           250,000 
       1,050,000 
            700,000 
            700,000 
            700,000         
3,400,000 
Street Lights 
           700,000 
       1,000,000 
    -   
-   
    -                   1,700,000 
Streets 
       9,240,473 
        8,818,000 
        9,003,000 
        8,203,000 
        8,203,000 
     43,467,473 
Traffic 
       1,325,000 
            550,000 
            350,000 
        1,050,000 
            350,000 
 3,625,000 
Other City Capital 
Projects 
      4,492,000 
        1,002,000 
            927,000 
            927,000 
           927,000 
     8,275,000 
Total 
$    61,540,856 
 $   54,060,441 
 $   59,879,930 
 $   42,984,035 
 $   51,556,652 
 $270,021,914 
Of the total $270.0 million, $152.3 million (56.4% of the total five-year CIP) is for Clean Water Program capital 
projects, all of which are funded by sewer service charges, bond and loan proceeds, and capital payments from 
the sewer system’s subregional customers and the City of Foster City. More details of this significant 
infrastructure investment are provided in the following section. Street rehabilitation/reconstruction and 
transportation projects total $61.8 million (22.9% of the total five-year CIP), while parks-related projects 
amount to $19.9 million (7.4% of the total). 
164
908 of 1111

--- page 909 ---
CIP Summary 
Wastewater Capital Improvement Projects 
The Sewer Enterprise system consists of the City’s sewer collection system and wastewater treatment plant 
(WWTP) facilities serving the residents and businesses of the City, all of Foster City, the Crystal Springs County 
Sanitation District (CSCSD), and portions of the neighboring communities (subregional customers) of the Town 
Hillsborough, City of Belmont, and certain unincorporated areas of San Mateo County. The current population in 
the utility’s service area is approximately 150,000 residents. There are approximately 28,500 customer accounts 
in the City and approximately 11,000 customer accounts in Foster City and the subregional customer 
communities utilizing the WWTP. 
Significant Sewer Infrastructure Needs and the Cease and Desist Order 
Similar to many wastewater systems in the region, the City’s Sewer Enterprise infrastructure is aging and in need of 
significant rehabilitation and upgrade. The City’s sewer collection system dates back to the early 1900s, with the 
majority of sewer pipes installed in the 1940s through 1960s. The original structures at the WWTP were 
constructed in 1937. The City’s collection system has challenges with infiltration and inflow through leaky pipes 
and illegal drain connections. During significant rain events, flow into the sewer pipes increases, exceeding the 
capacity of the sewer collection system and WWTP. These conditions result in overflows of diluted and untreated 
sewage onto streets and into storm drains, which eventually reaches the City’s local waterways and San Francisco 
Bay. These events are termed sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs). 
Due to past incidents of SSOs into the City’s local waterways and San Francisco Bay, the San Francisco Bay 
Regional Water Quality Control Board (Regional Board) issued a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) in 2009, mandating 
the City to implement measures to reduce and prevent SSOs. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System permit for the WWTP also requires the City to ensure full treatment at the WWTP of all effluent and 
eliminate “blending” practices. 
In December 2014, the City established the Clean Water Program to address the Regional Board’s CDO and 
comply with Wastewater Treatment Plant operation permit requirements. The Clean Water Program is a 10-year, 
approximately $1 billion, comprehensive capital improvement plan to address the needs for both the collection 
system and the WWTP. These improvements are focused on replacing aging infrastructure, providing wet weather 
capacity assurance, meeting current and anticipated future regulatory requirements, and aligning with the City’s 
sustainability goals. The City’s Sewer Enterprise continues to invest in its capital and operating budgets for staff 
and consultant engineering services to execute the Clean Water Program improvements. 
The Clean Water Program’s largest capital improvement project is the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion project, 
building new treatment facilities that increase capacity, ensure full treatment of effluent, and eliminate blending 
practices. As of August 2020, all three phases of the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion construction contract were 
awarded. The first phase is for excavation and site preparation, the second phase is to build the foundation, and 
the third phase is to construct the facilities. The project is anticipated to be completed by Summer 2026. 
165
909 of 1111

--- page 910 ---
CIP Summary 
The largest collection system capital improvement project is the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements 
project, which includes the Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) project. The UFES project consists of 
an underground 5.3-million-gallon structure that provides in-stream storage capacity to help eliminate SSOs in 
San Mateo and comply with the CDO. The special use permit and the project environmental impact report were 
approved in October 2019. The construction contract was awarded in May 2020 and final completion of the project 
is anticipated in 2025. 
Sewer Capital Project Revenues 
The City is utilizing a number of funding and financing options for the Clean Water Program. These include federal 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan funds, State Revolving Fund (SRF) loan funds, 
revenue bonds, direct funding from sewer fees, and capital contributions from Foster City/Estero Municipal 
Improvement District (EMID) and the subregional customers. Sewer fees will pay the debt service on these various 
financing mechanisms. 
The City, through the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority) with Foster City/Estero 
Municipal Improvement District (EMID), has received significant funding through SRF and WIFIA loans for the 
wastewater treatment plant upgrade and expansion project. In November 2020, the Authority finalized a WIFIA 
loan for the WWTP for $277 million and in December 2020, the City finalized a second WIFIA loan for its Basins 2 
and 3 Collection System Improvement project for $85 million. An SRF loan of $137 million was finalized in early 
May 2022. The City’s efforts to pursue and execute these low interest loan agreements resulted in hundreds of 
millions of dollars in savings to the ratepayers. 
Sewer Capital Projects and Costs 
Of the total $270.0 million planned over the next five years, four capital projects are planned for the City’s WWTP 
totaling an estimated $80.0 million. The largest planned WWTP project is $44.2 million for the WWTP Annual 
Repairs project, followed by $25.0 million for the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion project, and $10.9 million for 
annual major components. 
Sewer collection system improvements total an estimated $72.3 million, with ten different capital projects 
throughout the City. The largest sewer collection system project is $34.7 million for the Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation project, followed by $22.0 million for Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Upgrades and $12.5 million for 
the TMDL (Total Maximum Daily Load) Enhanced Planning and Infrastructure Improvements. 
Street Rehabilitation and Improvement Capital Projects 
A total of $43.5 million in street rehabilitation, reconstruction, and improvement projects are included in the five-
year CIP. Primary funding sources for these projects include Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund 
($13.5 million), Measure A countywide half-cent sales tax ($12.9 million), Gas Tax ($6.0 million), Measure W 
countywide half-cent sales tax ($4.3 million), Measure S local quarter-cent sales tax ($4.0 million), Measure M 
countywide vehicle license fee revenue ($1.8 million), and Street and Flood Control Bonds ($0.5 million). 
166
910 of 1111

--- page 911 ---
CIP Summary 
The City’s Pavement Management Program (PMP) uses available funding to minimize deferred maintenance, 
reduce the failed streets inventory, and maintain the City’s streets with a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) 
above 70. While the PMP focuses on the management of the City’s entire pavement assets, a separate Smooth 
Streets Program (SSP) was created in 2013 to address a specific set of failed streets. Street segments with a 
PCI of less than 25 are considered “failed” by common industry practice, and generally require expensive, full 
street reconstruction to restore. Of the 17 miles identified as failed streets and five miles identified as at-risk, 
15.7 miles have been restored and 3.6 miles are currently in construction. The remaining 2.7 miles of failed 
streets/at-risk streets in the Smooth Streets Program are currently scheduled for completion by the end of 
calendar year 2026.
City Building and Facilities Improvement Capital Projects 
Many City facilities are aging and facing significant upgrade needs. In the five-year CIP plan, a total of $24.1 
million is planned for various building facilities improvements and new construction. Of this total, $2.5 million is 
added to complete the Marina Library Branch modernization and structure improvement project; $3.0 million is 
for roof replacement and improvements, $7.0 million of this total is for waterproofing, painting, and structural 
improvements, and $6.0 million is for interior improvements at various City facilities. Additional projects include 
fence and picnic area improvements, play court resurfacing, and paving and resurfacing at the Corporation Yard 
and various recreation centers. 
Bridge Maintenance and Improvement Capital Projects 
Of the total $0.2 million planned over the next five years for bridge-related capital improvements, $75,000 is 
planned for the Gateway Park Pedestrian Bridge Improvements project and $150,000 is for citywide bridge 
maintenance. 
Parks and Recreation Facilities Renovation & Rehabilitation Capital Projects 
A total of $19.9 million in parks and recreation capital improvement projects are planned for the next five years. 
Of the total planned, the largest parks project is $4.7 million programmed to upgrade citywide park play areas. 
Additional funding planned for parks and recreation projects includes $2.7 million for the improvements at the 
Joinville Pool, $2.3 million for the replacement of playground equipment at City parks, and $2.2 million for 
improvements to the Laurelwood Park playground. 
Of the $19.9 million total of planned projects, the majority ($12.9 million) are funded from parks and recreation-
related taxes and fees. The City has received significant parks and recreation-related taxes and fees from the 
development projects currently underway in the City, which has allowed for the capacity to program the large 
projects in the five-year CIP. 
167
911 of 1111

--- page 912 ---
CIP Summary 
Stormwater / Flood Control Renovation & Rehabilitation Capital Projects 
A total of $3.4 million is planned for storm drainage and flood control projects for the next five years. Projects in 
this category include $1.6 million for the Green Stormwater Infrastructure Program, $1.3 million for the recurring 
work under the Storm System Minor Repair project, and $1.1 million for storm system dredging. Due to change of 
project design and scope of work, unused funds from certain stormwater projects have been released to support 
other projects. Staff is updating the City’s Storm Drain Master Plan in 2025, which will identify and prioritize 
capital improvement needs that will be programmed into future five-year Capital Improvement Program budgets. 
Once the master plan is complete, a financing plan will be developed to fund the priority projects. 
Bikeway / Pedestrian Walkway Capital Projects 
A total of $13.0 million is planned for bikeway and pedestrian walkway projects. Of the total, notable project 
requests include  $4.8 million is planned for the Fashion Island Class IV bike lane, $2.3 million is for the Bike San 
Mateo Program, $2.3 million is for pedestrian, street and bike infrastructure from Community Development Block 
Grant (CDBG) funding, $1.5 million is for the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor project, and $1.0 is for the 
Citywide Safe Routes to School Program.  
Traffic Capital Projects 
A total of $3.6 million is planned for congestion management and neighborhood traffic requests. Of this amount, 
the larger projects include $0.9 million, $0.7 million, and $0.5 million for two traffic signal projects at the 
intersections of Alameda De Las Pulgas/Barneson, Peninsula/Delaware, and Hillsdale/Alameda, respectively, 
$0.8 million is for citywide traffic calming, and $0.4 million for neighborhood traffic management.  
The primary funding sources for these traffic-related projects are Measure A ($1.6 million), traffic impact fees 
($0.8 million), Measure CC ($0.7 million), Measure S ($0.4 million), and Gas Tax ($0.3 million). 
Streetlights Capital Projects 
The High Voltage Streetlight Conversion project replaces approximately 450 existing high voltage streetlights with 
lower voltage, LED streetlights. The project has been implemented in phases and is expected to be completed in 
2026. This entire project is funded by the General Fund with $1.7 million in funding planned during the five-year 
CIP. 
Other City Capital Projects 
Various other citywide capital projects are planned, totaling $8.3 million over the next five years. Of this amount, 
the largest projects include $2.3 million for childcare facilities and $1.3 million for electronic and digital services 
improvements for the Community Development Department. 
168
912 of 1111

--- page 913 ---
CIP Summary 
CIP Funding 
All the projects listed in the following “Funded Projects” sub-section have identified sources of funding. The 
reports following separate the funded projects by category and by funding source. 
The City also has many capital projects that have no identified source of funding. The “Unfunded Projects” sub-
section lists all the identified projects that have no funding allocated and their estimated total costs. These 
unfunded capital projects have high-level cost estimates that would need to be further refined at the point of 
becoming a funded project with a total estimated cost $ 352.0 million. The size and scope of the projects varies 
and includes major construction projects, such as $50.0 million for Central Park Improvements Phases 2-4, $32 
million for a new Central Park Parking Garage and $20 million for the 2nd and El Camino Parking Garage, $26 
million for a new corporation yard facility, $20 million for the renovation of the King Resiliency Center, and $11 
million for a new Fire Station #27,  and other various projects including 31 projects from the Bike Master Plan 
totaling $13.1 million and six projects associated with storm catchment area improvements totaling $56.5 million. 
169
913 of 1111

--- page 914 ---
CIP Projects by Category
170
914 of 1111

--- page 915 ---
CIP Projects by Category
 PROJECT NAME 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Bikeway/Pedestrian
101/92 MULTI-MODAL (FASHION ISLAND CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
831,819
$               
3,988,636
$           
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
4,820,455
$ 
   
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM 
902,000
                  
700,000
                  
700,000
                  
- 
- 
2,302,000
   
CDBG PROJECTS 
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
2,250,000
   
CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING 
- 
10,000
 
10,000
 
- 
- 
20,000
  
CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM 
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
1,000,000
   
CITYWIDE SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM 
115,000
                  
115,000
                  
115,000
                  
115,000
                  
115,000
                  
575,000
   
DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR 
1,500,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
QUICK BUILD MOBILITY PROGRAM 
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
500,000
   
 Bikeway/Pedestrian Total 
4,098,819
$  
   
5,563,636
$  
   
1,575,000
$  
   
865,000
$  
   
865,000
$  
   
12,967,455
$     
Bridges
-  
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE 
-
$
 
75,000
$                  
75,000
$                  
-
$
 
-
$
 
150,000
$ 
   
GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS 
75,000
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
75,000
  
 Bridges Total 
75,000
$  
   
75,000
$  
   
75,000
$  
   
-
$  
  
-
$ 
  
225,000
$ 
   
Facilities
-  
ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING 
250,000
$               
35,000
$                  
35,000
$                  
35,000
$                  
-
$
 
355,000
$ 
   
ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD 
18,766
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
18,766
  
CHILDCARE FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
150,000
                  
- 
- 
250,000
                  
- 
400,000
  
CITYWIDE FACILITY INTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS
- 
400,000
 
400,000
                  
800,000
                  
800,000
                  
2,400,000
   
CITYWIDE FACILITY ROOF REPLACEMENTS
1,000,000
              
800,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
1,000,000
              
3,000,000
   
CITYWIDE FACILITY WATERPROOFING IMPROVEMENTS
475,000
                  
1,000,000
              
1,000,000
              
1,000,000
              
1,000,000
              
4,475,000
   
CITYWIDE FENCE IMPROVEMENTS 
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
500,000
   
CITYWIDE FIRE - INTRUSION ALARM SYSTM UPGRADE 
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
1,250,000
   
CITYWIDE PICNIC AREA IMPROVEMENTS
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
CITYWIDE PLAY COURT RESURFACING
350,000
                  
350,000
                  
350,000
                  
350,000
                  
350,000
                  
1,750,000
   
CORP YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS 
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
500,000
   
CORPORATION YARD PAVING 
500,000
                  
500,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
DISPATCH FACILITY IMPROVEMENT
- 
- 
- 
500,000
                  
- 
500,000
  
DOWNTOWN PARKING IMPROVEMENTS 
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
500,000
   
DOWNTOWN RESTROOMS 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
125,000
   
EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE 
(200,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(200,000)
   
FIRE STATION 24 SHOWER REMODEL 
(144,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(144,000)
   
LAURELWOOD PARK RETAINING WALL REPAIR 
150,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
2,000,000
              
2,150,000
   
MAIN LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS 
2,250,000
              
250,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
2,500,000
   
OLD FIRE STATION 25 RENOVATION
- 
- 
- 
- 
800,000
                  
800,000
   
PARKING LOT RESURFACING (SHORELINE/LAKESHORE/LOS 
PRADOS/BERESFORD)
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
- 
1,200,000
  
POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
3,818
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3,818
   
POLICE JAIL RETROFIT
- 
- 
500,000
                  
- 
- 
500,000
   
RECREATION CENTER BACKUP GENERATOR CONNECTION 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
- 
200,000
  
 Facilities Total 
5,878,584
$  
   
4,310,000
$  
   
3,360,000
$  
   
4,010,000
$  
   
6,575,000
$  
   
24,133,584
$     
Parks
BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
(801,185)
$             
- 
- 
- 
- 
(801,185)
   
CENTRAL PARK 
750,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
CITYWIDE EMERGENCY FIELD LIGHTING 
120,000
                  
120,000
                  
120,000
                  
120,000
                  
- 
480,000
  
CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
500,000
                  
100,000
                  
2,000,000
              
100,000
                  
2,000,000
              
4,700,000
   
CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
2,250,000
   
DOWNTOWN DOG PARK
- 
500,000
 
500,000
                  
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
GOLF BUNKERS
- 
- 
850,000
                  
- 
- 
850,000
   
GOLF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS & MAINLINE
- 
- 
50,000
 
1,000,000
              
- 
1,050,000
  
JAPANESE GARDEN REPAIRS
350,000
                  
650,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT & IMPROVEMENTS
2,650,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,650,000
   
KING & JOINVILLE CHANGING ROOM IMPROVEMENTS 
(103,670)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(103,670)
   
171
915 of 1111

--- page 916 ---
CIP Projects by Category
 PROJECT NAME 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Parks (Continued)
LAURELWOOD PARK PLAYGROUND 
- 
- 
2,200,000
              
- 
- 
2,200,000
   
LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENT 
300,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
300,000
   
PARK RESTROOM PHASE V 
(55,539)
                   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(55,539)
   
PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT PHASE IV
164,601
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
164,601
   
PARKS AMENITIES ASSESEMENT
- 
600,000
 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
PARKSIDE AQUATIC PLAY AREA  
600,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
RYDER PARK WATER FEATURE FILTRATION SYSTEM
50,000
 
100,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
SEAL POINT PARK POND H2S INVESTIGATION AND 
REMEDIATION
120,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
120,000
   
SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION: SYNTHETIC TURF 
(400,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(400,000)
   
SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT 
1,500,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION 
175,000
                  
175,000
                  
175,000
                  
175,000
                  
175,000
                  
875,000
   
WASHINGTON PARK BASKETBALL COURT 
22,615
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
22,615
  
 Parks Total 
6,391,822
$  
   
2,695,000
$  
   
6,345,000
$  
   
1,845,000
$  
   
2,625,000
$  
   
19,901,822
$     
Sewer
-  
ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION 
-
$
 
7,120,000
$           
10,350,000
$        
8,500,000
$           
8,755,000
$           
34,725,000
$     
COLLECTION SYSTEM ODOR CONTROL
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
1,000,000
   
CWP ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHAB 
(5,331,000)
            
- 
- 
- 
- 
(5,331,000)
   
CWP CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
409,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
409,000
   
CWP SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
(172,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(172,000)
   
CWP WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS 
5,487,000
              
5,365,000
              
- 
- 
- 
10,852,000
   
EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION 
1,563,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,563,000
   
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT - SEWER PROJECTS 
(874,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(874,000)
   
ROOT FOAMING 
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
2,250,000
   
SANITARY SEWER CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
- 
900,000
 
800,000
                  
900,000
                  
1,200,000
              
3,800,000
   
SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
- 
125,000
 
125,000
                  
125,000
                  
125,000
                  
500,000
   
SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES 
- 
5,257,000
 
5,420,000
              
5,588,000
              
5,755,000
              
22,020,000
   
TMDL ENHANCED PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE 
IMPROVEMENTS 
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
12,500,000
   
WWTP & FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE & EXPANSION 
24,957,000
           
- 
- 
- 
- 
24,957,000
   
WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS 
- 
7,079,805
 
17,699,930
           
7,121,035
              
12,326,652
           
44,227,422
   
WWTP PAVING 
(100,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(100,000)
   
 Sewer Total 
29,089,000
$        
28,996,805
$     
37,544,930
$        
25,384,035
$     
31,311,652
$     
152,326,422
$     
Stormwater
CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
400,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
1,000,000
$  
   
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN 
IMPROVEMENTS 
(2,000,000)
            
- 
- 
- 
- 
(2,000,000)
   
COYOTE PARK/POPLAR PUMP STATION 
50,000
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
50,000
  
GREEN STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
500,000
                  
500,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
1,600,000
   
MARINA LAGOON DREDGING DESIGN/PERMITTING 
150,000
                  
50,000
 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
STORM DRAIN CONDITION ASSESSMENT 
550,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
950,000
   
STORM SYSTEM DREDGING 
1,100,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,100,000
   
STORM SYSTEM MINOR REPAIR
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
1,250,000
   
TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AND MONTE DIABLO 
(750,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(750,000)
   
 Stormwater Total 
250,000
$  
   
1,050,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
3,400,000
$  
   
Street Lights
HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION 
700,000
$               
1,000,000
$           
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
1,700,000
$ 
   
 Street Lights Total 
700,000
$  
   
1,000,000
$  
   
-
$  
  
-
$ 
  
-
$ 
  
1,700,000
$ 
   
Streets
CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT 
-
$
 
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
150,000
$               
600,000
$  
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION FY18-19 
(570,501)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(570,501)
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 1 
275,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
275,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 2 
174,473
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
174,473
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 
870,501
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
870,501
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION FY18-19 
(160,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(160,000)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 1 
(303,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(303,000)
   
172
916 of 1111

--- page 917 ---
CIP Projects by Category
 PROJECT NAME 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Streets (Continued)
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 2 
(600,000)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(600,000)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 3 
(205,117)
                
- 
- 
- 
- 
(205,117)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
9,284,117
              
8,468,000
              
8,853,000
              
8,053,000
              
8,053,000
              
42,711,117
   
COMPLETE STREETS NORTH CENTRAL
150,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
COMPLETES STREETS PLAN 
100,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
LOCAL ROADWAY SAFETY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
- 
200,000
 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
PENINSULA CORRIDOR COMPLETE STREETS
225,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
225,000
   
 Streets Total 
9,240,473
$  
   
8,818,000
$  
   
9,003,000
$  
   
8,203,000
$  
   
8,203,000
$  
   
43,467,473
$        
Traffic
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & BARNESON INTERSECTION 
SAFETY 7 OPTIMIZATION
-
$
 
200,000
$               
-
$
 
700,000
$               
-
$
 
900,000
$ 
   
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING 
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
750,000
   
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING 
- 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
100,000
   
GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
HILLSDALE/ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL 
450,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
450,000
   
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGMENT 
- 
100,000
 
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
400,000
   
PENINSULA/DELAWARE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
650,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
650,000
   
REGIONAL AND CITYWIDE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM 
MANAGEMENT
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
125,000
   
Traffic Total
1,325,000
$  
   
550,000
$  
   
350,000
$  
   
1,050,000
$  
   
350,000
$  
   
3,625,000
$  
   
Other City Capital Projects
CDBG COMMUNITY FACILITIES 
40,000
$                  
40,000
$                  
40,000
$                  
40,000
$                  
40,000
$                  
200,000
$  
   
CDD OFFICE REMODEL
140,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
140,000
   
CDD SERVICE IMPROVEMENT - ELECTRONIC & DIGITAL 
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
250,000
                  
1,250,000
   
CHILD CARE FACILITIES 
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
450,000
                  
2,250,000
   
HOUSING REHABILITATION 
60,000
 
60,000
 
60,000
 
60,000
 
60,000
 
300,000
   
LANDFILL MAINTENANCE 
1,000,000
              
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
MINOR HOME REPAIR 
127,000
                  
127,000
                  
127,000
                  
127,000
                  
127,000
                  
635,000
   
PEG PROJECT  (PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 
GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNELS)
750,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
POLICE FACILITY INTERNET EXPANSION
200,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
POLICE STATION: UPS REPLACEMENT
400,000
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
400,000
   
TRAIN QUIET ZONE 
1,075,000
              
75,000
 
- 
- 
- 
1,150,000
   
 Other City Capital Projects Total 
4,492,000
$  
   
1,002,000
$  
   
927,000
$  
   
927,000
$  
   
927,000
$  
   
8,275,000
$  
   
 Grand Totals 
61,540,698
$     
54,060,441
$     
59,879,930
$     
42,984,035
$     
51,556,652
$     
270,021,756
$     
173
917 of 1111

--- page 918 ---
CIP Projects by Funding 
Source
174
918 of 1111

--- page 919 ---
CIP Projects by Funding Source
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
Gas Tax
CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING 
-
$
 
10,000
$                 
10,000
$                 
-
$
 
-
$
 
20,000
$
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1,203,000
             
1,193,000
             
1,193,000
             
1,203,000
             
1,203,000
             
5,995,000
   
GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL 
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
250,000
   
Gas Tax Total
1,253,000
$  
   
1,253,000
$  
   
1,253,000
$  
   
1,253,000
$  
   
1,253,000
$  
   
6,265,000
$  
   
General Fund
ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING 
250,000
$              
35,000
$                 
35,000
$                 
35,000
$                 
-
$
 
355,000
$
   
ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD 
18,766
                    
- 
- 
- 
- 
18,766
   
BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
(801,185)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(801,185)
   
CITYWIDE EMERGENCY FIELD LIGHTING 
120,000
                 
120,000
                 
120,000
                 
120,000
                 
- 
480,000
  
CITYWIDE FACILITY INTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS
- 
400,000
 
400,000
                 
800,000
                 
800,000
                 
2,400,000
   
CITYWIDE FACILITY ROOF REPLACEMENTS
200,000
                 
- 
100,000
 
100,000
                 
1,000,000
             
1,400,000
   
CITYWIDE FACILITY WATERPROOFING IMPROVEMENTS
475,000
                 
1,000,000
             
1,000,000
             
1,000,000
             
1,000,000
             
4,475,000
   
CITYWIDE FENCE IMPROVEMENTS 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
500,000
   
CITYWIDE FIRE - INTRUSION ALARM SYSTM UPGRADE 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
1,250,000
   
CITYWIDE PICNIC AREA IMPROVEMENTS
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
250,000
   
CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
2,250,000
   
CITYWIDE SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM 
115,000
                 
115,000
                 
115,000
                 
115,000
                 
115,000
                 
575,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION FY18-19 
(160,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(160,000)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 3 
(205,117)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(205,117)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
205,117
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
205,117
   
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN 
IMPROVEMENTS 
(750,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(750,000)
   
CORP YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS 
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
250,000
   
CORPORATION YARD PAVING 
- 
500,000
 
- 
- 
- 
500,000
   
DOWNTOWN PARKING IMPROVEMENTS 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
500,000
   
DOWNTOWN RESTROOMS 
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
125,000
   
FIRE STATION 24 SHOWER REMODEL 
(144,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(144,000)
   
HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION 
700,000
                 
1,000,000
             
- 
- 
- 
1,700,000
   
JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT & IMPROVEMENTS
2,650,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,650,000
   
LAURELWOOD PARK RETAINING WALL REPAIR 
150,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
2,000,000
             
2,150,000
   
MAIN LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS 
1,000,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
OLD FIRE STATION 25 RENOVATION
- 
- 
- 
- 
800,000
                 
800,000
   
PARK RESTROOM PHASE V 
(55,539)
                  
- 
- 
- 
- 
(55,539)
   
PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT PHASE IV
164,601
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
164,601
   
PARKING LOT RESURFACING (SHORELINE/LAKESHORE/LOS 
PRADOS/BERESFORD)
300,000
                 
300,000
                 
300,000
                 
300,000
                 
- 
1,200,000
  
POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
3,818
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3,818
   
POLICE JAIL RETROFIT
- 
- 
500,000
                 
- 
- 
500,000
   
RECREATION CENTER BACKUP GENERATOR CONNECTION 
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
- 
200,000
  
WASHINGTON PARK BASKETBALL COURT 
22,615
                    
- 
- 
- 
- 
22,615
   
General Fund Total
5,434,076
$  
   
4,545,000
$  
   
3,645,000
$  
   
3,545,000
$  
   
6,740,000
$  
   
23,909,076
$     
Grants
101/92 MULTI-MODAL (FASHION ISLAND CLASS IV BIKE 
LANE)
831,819
$              
3,988,636
$          
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
4,820,455
$          
CDBG COMMUNITY FACILITIES 
40,000
                    
40,000
                    
40,000
                    
40,000
                    
40,000
                    
200,000
   
CDBG PROJECTS 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
2,250,000
   
CHILDCARE FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
- 
- 
- 
250,000
                 
- 
250,000
  
DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR 
1,500,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
  
MINOR HOME REPAIR 
127,000
                 
127,000
                 
127,000
                 
127,000
                 
127,000
                 
635,000
   
Grants Total
2,948,819
$          
4,605,636
$  
   
617,000
$  
   
867,000
$  
   
617,000
$  
   
9,655,455
$  
   
Measure A
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & BARNESON INTERSECTION 
SAFETY 7 OPTIMIZATION
-
$
 
200,000
$              
-
$
 
700,000
$              
-
$
 
900,000
$
   
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM 
202,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
202,000
   
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE 
- 
75,000
 
75,000
                    
- 
- 
150,000
   
CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
1,000,000
   
CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT 
- 
150,000
 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
600,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 
200,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 2 
(600,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(600,000)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
2,985,000
             
2,425,000
             
2,810,000
             
2,000,000
             
2,000,000
             
12,220,000
   
175
919 of 1111

--- page 920 ---
CIP Projects by Funding Source
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
Measure A (Continued)
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING 
- 
25,000
 
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
100,000
   
COMPLETE STREETS NORTH CENTRAL
150,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
COMPLETES STREETS PLAN 
100,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
HILLSDALE/ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL 
450,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
450,000
   
LOCAL ROADWAY SAFETY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
- 
200,000
 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
REGIONAL AND CITYWIDE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM 
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
25,000
                    
125,000
   
Measure A Total
3,712,000
$  
   
3,300,000
$  
   
3,285,000
$  
   
3,100,000
$  
   
2,400,000
$  
   
15,797,000
$     
Measure CC
PENINSULA CORRIDOR COMPLETE STREETS
225,000
$              
- 
- 
- 
- 
225,000
$  
   
PENINSULA/DELAWARE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
650,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
650,000
   
Measure CC Total
875,000
$  
   
-
$  
  
-
$
  
-
$
  
-
$
  
875,000
$
   
Measure S
CITYWIDE PLAY COURT RESURFACING
350,000
$              
350,000
$              
350,000
$              
350,000
$              
350,000
$              
1,750,000
$  
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
800,000
                 
800,000
                 
800,000
                 
800,000
                 
800,000
                 
4,000,000
   
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN CHA 
(1,250,000)
           
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1,250,000)
   
DISPATCH FACILITY IMPROVEMENT
- 
- 
- 
500,000
                 
- 
500,000
  
EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE 
(200,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(200,000)
   
GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS 
75,000
                    
- 
- 
- 
- 
75,000
   
KING & JOINVILLE CHANGING ROOM IMPROVEMENTS 
(103,670)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(103,670)
   
LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENT 
300,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
300,000
   
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS 
1,250,000
             
250,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGMENT 
- 
100,000
 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
400,000
   
POLICE FACILITY INTERNET EXPANSION
200,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
POLICE STATION: UPS REPLACEMENT
400,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
400,000
   
QUICK BUILD MOBILITY PROGRAM 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
500,000
   
SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION: SYNTHETIC TURF 
(400,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(400,000)
   
SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT 
1,500,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
Measure S Total
3,021,330
$  
   
1,600,000
$  
   
1,350,000
$  
   
1,850,000
$  
   
1,350,000
$  
   
9,171,330
$  
   
Measure W
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
325,000
$              
1,000,000
$          
1,000,000
$          
1,000,000
$          
1,000,000
$          
4,325,000
$  
   
TRAIN QUIET ZONE 
675,000
                 
75,000
                    
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
Measure W Total
1,000,000
$  
   
1,075,000
$  
   
1,000,000
$  
   
1,000,000
$  
   
1,000,000
$  
   
5,075,000
$  
   
Miscellaneous
CITYWIDE FACILITY ROOF REPLACEMENTS
800,000
$              
800,000
$              
- 
- 
- 
1,600,000
$  
   
HOUSING REHABILITATION 
60,000
                    
60,000
                    
60,000
                    
60,000
                    
60,000
                    
300,000
   
LANDFILL MAINTENANCE 
1,000,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
SEAL POINT PARK POND H2S INVESTIGATION AND 
REMEDIATION
120,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
120,000
   
Miscellaneous Total
1,980,000
$  
   
860,000
$  
   
60,000
$  
   
60,000
$  
   
60,000
$  
   
3,020,000
$  
   
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
CENTRAL PARK 
750,000
$              
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
750,000
$
   
CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
500,000
                 
100,000
                 
2,000,000
             
100,000
                 
2,000,000
             
4,700,000
   
DOWNTOWN DOG PARK
- 
500,000
 
500,000
                 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
GOLF BUNKERS
- 
- 
850,000
                 
- 
- 
850,000
   
GOLF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS & MAINLINE
- 
- 
50,000
                    
1,000,000
             
- 
1,050,000
  
JAPANESE GARDEN REPAIRS
350,000
                 
650,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
LAURELWOOD PARK PLAYGROUND 
- 
- 
2,200,000
             
- 
- 
2,200,000
   
PARKS AMENITIES ASSESEMENT
- 
600,000
 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
PARKSIDE AQUATIC PLAY AREA  
600,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
RYDER PARK WATER FEATURE FILTRATION SYSTEM
50,000
                    
100,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees Total
2,250,000
$  
   
1,950,000
$  
   
5,600,000
$  
   
1,100,000
$  
   
2,000,000
$  
   
12,900,000
   
Private Contributions
CHILD CARE FACILITIES 
450,000
$              
450,000
$              
450,000
$              
450,000
$              
450,000
$              
2,250,000
$  
   
CHILDCARE FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
150,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
413,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
413,000
   
Private Contributions Total
1,013,000
$  
   
450,000
$  
   
450,000
$  
   
450,000
$  
   
450,000
$  
   
2,813,000
$  
   
RMRA
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
2,700,000
$          
2,700,000
$          
2,700,000
$          
2,700,000
$          
2,700,000
$          
13,500,000
$     
RMRA Total
2,700,000
$  
   
2,700,000
$  
   
2,700,000
$  
   
2,700,000
$  
   
2,700,000
$  
   
13,500,000
$     
176
920 of 1111

--- page 921 ---
CIP Projects by Funding Source
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
Sewer
ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION 
-
$
 
7,120,000
$          
10,350,000
$       
8,500,000
$          
8,755,000
$          
34,725,000
$       
COLLECTION SYSTEM ODOR CONTROL
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
1,000,000
   
CORP YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS 
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
50,000
                    
250,000
   
CORPORATION YARD PAVING 
500,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
500,000
   
CWP ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHAB 
(5,331,000)
           
- 
- 
- 
- 
(5,331,000)
   
CWP CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
409,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
409,000
   
CWP SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
(172,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(172,000)
   
CWP WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS 
5,487,000
             
5,365,000
             
- 
- 
- 
10,852,000
   
EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION 
1,563,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,563,000
   
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT - SEWER PROJECTS 
(874,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(874,000)
   
ROOT FOAMING 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
450,000
                 
2,250,000
   
SANITARY SEWER CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
- 
900,000
 
800,000
                 
900,000
                 
1,200,000
             
3,800,000
   
SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
- 
125,000
 
125,000
                 
125,000
                 
125,000
                 
500,000
   
SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES 
- 
5,257,000
 
5,420,000
             
5,588,000
             
5,755,000
             
22,020,000
   
TMDL ENHANCED PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE 
IMPROVEMENTS 
2,500,000
             
2,500,000
             
2,500,000
             
2,500,000
             
2,500,000
             
12,500,000
   
WWTP & FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE & EXPANSION 
24,957,000
          
- 
- 
- 
- 
24,957,000
   
WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS 
- 
7,079,805
 
17,699,930
          
7,121,035
             
12,326,652
          
44,227,422
   
WWTP PAVING 
(100,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(100,000)
   
Sewer Total
29,639,000
$       
29,046,805
$     
37,594,930
$     
25,434,035
$     
31,361,652
$     
153,076,422
$     
Stormwater Fee
CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
400,000
$              
150,000
$              
150,000
$              
150,000
$              
150,000
$              
1,000,000
$  
   
COYOTE PARK/POPLAR PUMP STATION 
50,000
                    
- 
- 
- 
- 
50,000
   
GREEN STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
500,000
                 
500,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
200,000
                 
1,600,000
   
MARINA LAGOON DREDGING DESIGN/PERMITTING 
150,000
                 
50,000
                    
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
STORM DRAIN CONDITION ASSESSMENT 
550,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
100,000
                 
950,000
   
STORM SYSTEM DREDGING 
1,100,000
             
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,100,000
   
STORM SYSTEM MINOR REPAIR
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
1,250,000
   
TRAIN QUIET ZONE 
400,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
400,000
   
Stormwater Fee Total
3,400,000
$  
   
1,050,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
700,000
$  
   
6,550,000
$  
   
Taxes, Fees & Charges
CDD OFFICE REMODEL
140,000
$              
- 
- 
- 
- 
140,000
$  
   
CDD SERVICE IMPROVEMENT - ELECTRONIC & DIGITAL 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
1,250,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION FY18-19 
(570,501)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(570,501)
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 1 
275,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
275,000
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 2 
174,473
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
174,473
   
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 
670,501
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
670,501
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 1 
(303,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(303,000)
   
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
653,000
                 
350,000
                 
350,000
                 
350,000
                 
350,000
                 
2,053,000
   
PEG PROJECT  (PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 
GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNELS)
750,000
                 
- 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AND MONTE DIABLO 
(750,000)
               
- 
- 
- 
- 
(750,000)
   
Taxes, Fees & Charges Total
1,289,473
$  
   
600,000
$  
   
600,000
$  
   
600,000
$  
   
600,000
$  
   
3,689,473
$  
   
Traffic Impact Fees
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM 
700,000
$              
700,000
$              
700,000
$              
-
$
 
-
$
 
2,100,000
$          
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
750,000
   
Traffic Impact Fees Total
850,000
$  
   
850,000
$  
   
850,000
$  
   
150,000
$  
   
150,000
$  
   
2,850,000
$  
   
Tree Replacement Fee
TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION 
175,000
$              
175,000
$              
175,000
$              
175,000
$              
175,000
$              
875,000
$  
   
Tree Replacement Fee Total
175,000
$  
   
175,000
$  
   
175,000
$  
   
175,000
$  
   
175,000
$  
   
875,000
$  
   
 Grand Totals 
61,540,698
$       
54,060,441
$       
59,879,930
$       
42,984,035
$       
51,556,652
$       
270,021,756
$     
177
921 of 1111

--- page 922 ---
Funded 
Projects
178
922 of 1111

--- page 923 ---
Funded Projects
 PROJECT NAME 
 FUNDING SOURCE 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
101/92 MULTI-MODAL (FASHION ISLAND CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
Grants
831,819
$
 
ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING 
General Fund
250,000
 
ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD 
General Fund
18,766
 
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & BARNESON INTERSECTION SAFETY 7 OPTIMIZATION
Measure A
- 
ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION 
Sewer
- 
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM 
Measure A
202,000
 
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM 
Traffic Impact Fees
700,000
 
BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
General Fund
(801,185)
 
CDBG COMMUNITY FACILITIES 
Grants
40,000
 
CDBG PROJECTS 
Grants
450,000
 
CDD OFFICE REMODEL
Taxes, Fees & Charges
140,000
 
CDD SERVICE IMPROVEMENT - ELECTRONIC & DIGITAL 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
250,000
 
CENTRAL PARK 
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
750,000
 
CHILD CARE FACILITIES 
Private Contributions
450,000
 
CHILDCARE FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
Grants
- 
CHILDCARE FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
Private Contributions
150,000
 
CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING 
Gas Tax
- 
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE 
Measure A
- 
CITYWIDE EMERGENCY FIELD LIGHTING 
General Fund
120,000
 
CITYWIDE FACILITY INTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
- 
CITYWIDE FACILITY ROOF REPLACEMENTS
General Fund
200,000
 
CITYWIDE FACILITY ROOF REPLACEMENTS
Miscellaneous
800,000
 
CITYWIDE FACILITY WATERPROOFING IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
475,000
 
CITYWIDE FENCE IMPROVEMENTS 
General Fund
100,000
 
CITYWIDE FIRE - INTRSN ALARM SYSTM UPGRADE 
General Fund
250,000
 
CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
500,000
 
CITYWIDE PICNIC AREA IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
50,000
 
CITYWIDE PLAY COURT RESURFACING
Measure S
350,000
 
CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
General Fund
450,000
 
CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM 
Measure A
200,000
 
CITYWIDE SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM 
General Fund
115,000
 
CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT 
Measure A
- 
CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
Stormwater Fee
400,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION FY18-19 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
(570,501)
 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 1 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
275,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 2 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
174,473
 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 
Measure A
200,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
670,501
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION FY18-19 
General Fund
(160,000)
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 1 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
(303,000)
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 2 
Measure A
(600,000)
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 3 
General Fund
(205,117)
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Gas Tax
1,203,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
General Fund
205,117
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Measure A
2,985,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Measure S
800,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Measure W
325,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Private Contributions
413,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
RMRA
2,700,000
 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Taxes, Fees & Charges
653,000
 
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING 
Traffic Impact Fees
150,000
 
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING 
Measure A
- 
COLLECTION SYSTEM ODOR CONTROL
Sewer
200,000
 
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN CHA 
General Fund
(750,000)
 
COLUMBIA/CRYSTAL SPRINGS STORM DRAIN CHA 
Measure S
(1,250,000)
 
179
923 of 1111

--- page 924 ---
Funded Projects
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
3,988,636
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
4,820,455
$ 
   
35,000
 
35,000
 
35,000
 
- 
355,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
18,766
   
200,000
 
- 
700,000
 
- 
900,000
   
7,120,000
 
10,350,000
 
8,500,000
 
8,755,000
 
34,725,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
202,000
   
700,000
 
700,000
 
- 
- 
2,100,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(801,185)
   
40,000
 
40,000
 
40,000
 
40,000
 
200,000
   
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
2,250,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
140,000
   
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
1,250,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
2,250,000
   
- 
- 
250,000
 
- 
250,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
10,000
 
10,000
 
- 
- 
20,000
   
75,000
 
75,000
 
- 
- 
150,000
   
120,000
 
120,000
 
120,000
 
- 
480,000
   
400,000
 
400,000
 
800,000
 
800,000
 
2,400,000
   
- 
100,000
 
100,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,400,000
   
800,000
 
- 
- 
- 
1,600,000
   
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
4,475,000
   
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
500,000
   
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
1,250,000
   
100,000
 
2,000,000
 
100,000
 
2,000,000
 
4,700,000
   
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
350,000
 
350,000
 
350,000
 
350,000
 
1,750,000
   
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
2,250,000
   
200,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
1,000,000
   
115,000
 
115,000
 
115,000
 
115,000
 
575,000
   
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
600,000
   
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
1,000,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(570,501)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
275,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
174,473
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
670,501
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(160,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(303,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(600,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(205,117)
   
1,193,000
 
1,193,000
 
1,203,000
 
1,203,000
 
5,995,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
205,117
   
2,425,000
 
2,810,000
 
2,000,000
 
2,000,000
 
12,220,000
   
800,000
 
800,000
 
800,000
 
800,000
 
4,000,000
   
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
4,325,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
413,000
   
2,700,000
 
2,700,000
 
2,700,000
 
2,700,000
 
13,500,000
   
350,000
 
350,000
 
350,000
 
350,000
 
2,053,000
   
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
150,000
 
750,000
   
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
100,000
   
200,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
1,000,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(750,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(1,250,000)
   
180
924 of 1111

--- page 925 ---
Funded Projects
 PROJECT NAME 
 FUNDING SOURCE 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
COMPLETE STREETS NORTH CENTRAL
Measure A
150,000
$
 
COMPLETES STREETS PLAN 
Measure A
100,000
 
CORP YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS 
General Fund
50,000
 
CORP YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS 
Sewer
50,000
 
CORPORATION YARD PAVING 
General Fund
- 
CORPORATION YARD PAVING 
Sewer
500,000
 
COYOTE PARK/POPLAR PUMP STATION 
Stormwater Fee
50,000
 
CWP ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHAB 
Sewer
(5,331,000)
 
CWP CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
Sewer
409,000
 
CWP SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
Sewer
(172,000)
 
CWP WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS 
Sewer
5,487,000
 
DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR 
Grants
1,500,000
 
DISPATCH FACILITY IMPROVEMENT
Measure S
- 
DOWNTOWN DOG PARK
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
- 
DOWNTOWN PARKING IMPROVEMENTS 
General Fund
100,000
 
DOWNTOWN RESTROOMS 
General Fund
25,000
 
EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION 
Sewer
1,563,000
 
EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE 
Measure S
(200,000)
 
FIRE STATION 24 SHOWER REMODEL 
General Fund
(144,000)
 
GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS 
Measure S
75,000
 
GOLF BUNKERS
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
- 
GOLF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS & MAINLINE
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
- 
GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL 
Gas Tax
50,000
 
GREEN STORMWATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
Stormwater Fee
500,000
 
HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION 
General Fund
700,000
 
HILLSDALE/ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL 
Measure A
450,000
 
HOUSING REHABILITATION 
Miscellaneous
60,000
 
JAPANESE GARDEN REPAIRS
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
350,000
 
JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT & IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
2,650,000
 
KING & JOINVILLE CHANGING ROOM IMPROVEMENTS 
Measure S
(103,670)
 
LANDFILL MAINTENANCE 
Miscellaneous
1,000,000
 
LAURELWOOD PARK PLAYGROUND 
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
- 
LAURELWOOD PARK RETAINING WALL REPAIR 
General Fund
150,000
 
LOCAL ROADWAY SAFETY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Measure A
- 
LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENT 
Measure S
300,000
 
MAIN LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
100,000
 
MARINA LAGOON DREDGING DESIGN/PERMITTING 
Stormwater Fee
150,000
 
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS 
General Fund
1,000,000
 
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS 
Measure S
1,250,000
 
MINOR HOME REPAIR 
Grants
127,000
 
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGMENT 
Measure S
- 
OLD FIRE STATION 25 RENOVATION
General Fund
- 
PARK RESTROOM PHASE V 
General Fund
(55,539)
 
PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT PHASE IV
General Fund
164,601
 
PARKING LOT RESURFACING (SHORELINE/LAKESHORE/LOS PRADOS/BERESFORD)
General Fund
300,000
 
PARKS AMENITIES ASSESEMENT
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
- 
PARKSIDE AQUATIC PLAY AREA  
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
600,000
 
PEG PROJECT  (PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNELS)
Taxes, Fees & Charges
750,000
 
PENINSULA CORRIDOR COMPLETE STREETS
Measure CC
225,000
 
PENINSULA/DELAWARE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
Measure CC
650,000
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
General Fund
3,818
 
POLICE FACILITY INTERNET EXPANSION
Measure S
200,000
 
POLICE JAIL RETROFIT
General Fund
- 
POLICE STATION: UPS REPLACEMENT
Measure S
400,000
 
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT - SEWER PROJECTS 
Sewer
(874,000)
 
181
925 of 1111

--- page 926 ---
Funded Projects
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
150,000
$ 
  
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
500,000
 
- 
- 
- 
500,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
500,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
50,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(5,331,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
409,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(172,000)
   
5,365,000
 
- 
- 
- 
10,852,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
- 
- 
500,000
 
- 
500,000
   
500,000
 
500,000
 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
500,000
   
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
125,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,563,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(200,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(144,000)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
75,000
   
- 
850,000
 
- 
- 
850,000
   
- 
50,000
 
1,000,000
 
- 
1,050,000
   
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
250,000
   
500,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
200,000
 
1,600,000
   
1,000,000
 
- 
- 
- 
1,700,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
450,000
   
60,000
 
60,000
 
60,000
 
60,000
 
300,000
   
650,000
 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
2,650,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(103,670)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
- 
2,200,000
 
- 
- 
2,200,000
   
- 
- 
- 
2,000,000
 
2,150,000
   
200,000
 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
300,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
100,000
   
50,000
 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,000,000
   
250,000
 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
127,000
 
127,000
 
127,000
 
127,000
 
635,000
   
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
400,000
   
- 
- 
- 
800,000
 
800,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(55,539)
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
164,601
   
300,000
 
300,000
 
300,000
 
- 
1,200,000
   
600,000
 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
600,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
225,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
650,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
3,818
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
200,000
   
- 
500,000
 
- 
- 
500,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
400,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(874,000)
   
182
926 of 1111

--- page 927 ---
Funded Projects
 PROJECT NAME 
 FUNDING SOURCE 
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
QUICK BUILD MOBILITY PROGRAM 
Measure S
100,000
$
 
RECREATION CENTER BACKUP GENERATOR CONNECTION 
General Fund
50,000
 
REGIONAL AND CITYWIDE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
Measure A
25,000
 
ROOT FOAMING 
Sewer
450,000
 
RYDER PARK WATER FEATURE FILTRATION SYSTEM
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
50,000
 
SANITARY SEWER CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM 
Sewer
- 
SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING 
Sewer
- 
SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES 
Sewer
- 
SEAL POINT PARK POND H2S INVESTIGATION AND REMEDIATION
Miscellaneous
120,000
 
SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION: SYNTHETIC TURF 
Measure S
(400,000)
 
STORM DRAIN CONDITION ASSESSMENT 
Stormwater Fee
550,000
 
STORM SYSTEM DREDGING 
Stormwater Fee
1,100,000
 
STORM SYSTEM MINOR REPAIR
Stormwater Fee
250,000
 
SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT 
Measure S
1,500,000
 
TMDL ENHANCED PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS 
Sewer
2,500,000
 
TRAIN QUIET ZONE 
Measure W
675,000
 
TRAIN QUIET ZONE 
Stormwater Fee
400,000
 
TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AND MONTE DIABLO 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
(750,000)
 
TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION 
Tree Replacement Fee
175,000
 
WASHINGTON PARK BASKETBALL COURT 
General Fund
22,615
 
WWTP & FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE & EXPANSION 
Sewer
24,957,000
 
WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS 
Sewer
- 
WWTP PAVING 
Sewer
(100,000)
 
Grand Total
61,540,698
$  
   
183
927 of 1111

--- page 928 ---
Funded Projects
 2026-27 
PLAN 
 2027-28 
PLAN 
 2028-29 
PLAN 
 2029-30 
PLAN 
 5-Year 
TOTAL 
100,000
$
 
100,000
$
 
100,000
$
 
100,000
$
 
500,000
$  
  
50,000
 
50,000
 
50,000
 
- 
200,000
   
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
25,000
 
125,000
   
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
450,000
 
2,250,000
   
100,000
 
- 
- 
- 
150,000
   
900,000
 
800,000
 
900,000
 
1,200,000
 
3,800,000
   
125,000
 
125,000
 
125,000
 
125,000
 
500,000
   
5,257,000
 
5,420,000
 
5,588,000
 
5,755,000
 
22,020,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
120,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(400,000)
   
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
950,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,100,000
   
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
250,000
 
1,250,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
1,500,000
   
2,500,000
 
2,500,000
 
2,500,000
 
2,500,000
 
12,500,000
   
75,000
 
- 
- 
- 
750,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
400,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(750,000)
   
175,000
 
175,000
 
175,000
 
175,000
 
875,000
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
22,615
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
24,957,000
   
7,079,805
 
17,699,930
 
7,121,035
 
12,326,652
 
44,227,422
   
- 
- 
- 
- 
(100,000)
   
54,060,441
$  
   
59,879,930
$  
   
42,984,035
$  
   
51,556,652
$  
   
270,021,756
$  
   
184
928 of 1111

--- page 929 ---
Unfunded 
Projects
185
929 of 1111

--- page 930 ---
Unfunded Projects by Project Amount
PROJECT NAME
 TOTAL 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
CENTRAL PARK (PHASE 2-4)
50,000,000
$
 
HILLSDALE BOULEVARD/US 101 BRIDGE OVERCROSSING
50,000,000
 
NEW CENTRAL PARK PARKING GARAGE
32,000,000
 
NEW CORPORATION YARD FACILITY
26,000,000
 
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
22,000,000
 
2ND & EL CAMINO REAL GARAGE LONG-TERM IMPROVEMENTS
20,000,000
 
KING RESILIENCY CENTER
20,000,000
 
COYOTE POINT DRAINAGE AREA
17,050,000
 
19TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
11,972,000
 
NEW FIRE STATION #27
11,000,000
 
LAUREL CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
9,567,000
 
16TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
9,521,000
 
LAURELWOOD / SUGARLOAF OPEN SPACE
8,215,000
 
BMP-ML PROJECT 1-14
7,835,000
 
DETROIT DRIVE DRAINAGE AREA
5,728,000
 
BMP-L PROJECT 1-17
5,294,000
 
CITYWIDE PARK SIGNS
5,000,000
 
SHORELINE PARKS 
5,000,000
 
PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
4,000,000
 
MARINER'S ISLAND BRIDGE APPROACH STABILIZATION
3,760,000
 
MONTE DIABLO AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
3,300,000
 
PALM AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
3,300,000
 
MAIN LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
3,183,575
 
SAN MATEO CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
2,620,000
 
28TH AVE GAP CLOSURE CONSTRUCTION
2,310,000
 
PASADENA ROADWAY RECONSTRUCTION
2,250,000
 
CITYWIDE ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
1,500,000
 
PAINT EXTERIOR & INTERIOR MAIN STREET GARAGE
1,500,000
 
PARK RENOVATION SHOREVIEW PARK MASTER PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION
1,200,000
 
LAKESHORE COMMUNITY CENTER IMPROVEMENTS
1,000,000
 
PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT - PHASE VI
1,000,000
 
RYDER CREEK BRIDGE PAINTING
750,000
 
FIRE STATION #27 IMPROVEMETNS
660,000
 
BAY MEADOWS COMMUNITY PARK PLANNING
500,000
 
CITYWIDE ASSISTIVE LISTENING DEVICES
400,000
 
PATHWAY REPAIRS AT VARIOUS PARKS
375,000
 
PLANNING PARK DEVELOPMENT AT DALE AVE & ANCHOR RD
350,000
 
REST ROOM BUILDING REPLACEMENT TRINTA
350,000
 
CITY HALL IMPROVEMENTS
300,000
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT EXTERIOR - REPAINT DECK FENCING
300,000
 
EAST 5TH AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
220,000
 
STREETLIGHT MASTER PLAN
200,000
 
REFURBISH NORTH END OF KOI POND
180,000
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT INTERIOR WORK REORGANIZATION
150,000
 
INSTALL SECURITY CAMERAS AT SELECTED PARKS
120,000
 
Grand Total
351,960,575
$  
   
186
930 of 1111

--- page 931 ---
Unfunded Projects by Project Name
PROJECT NAME
 TOTAL 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
16TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
9,521,000
$
 
19TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
11,972,000
 
28TH AVE GAP CLOSURE CONSTRUCTION
2,310,000
 
2ND & EL CAMINO REAL GARAGE LONG-TERM IMPROVEMENTS
20,000,000
 
BAY MEADOWS COMMUNITY PARK PLANNING
500,000
 
BMP-L PROJECT 1-17
5,294,000
 
BMP-ML PROJECT 1-14
7,835,000
 
CENTRAL PARK (PHASE 2-4)
50,000,000
 
CITY HALL IMPROVEMENTS
300,000
 
CITYWIDE ASSISTIVE LISTENING DEVICES
400,000
 
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
22,000,000
 
CITYWIDE ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION
1,500,000
 
CITYWIDE PARK SIGNS
5,000,000
 
COYOTE POINT DRAINAGE AREA
17,050,000
 
DETROIT DRIVE DRAINAGE AREA
5,728,000
 
EAST 5TH AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
220,000
 
FIRE STATION #27 IMPROVEMETNS
660,000
 
HILLSDALE BOULEVARD/US 101 BRIDGE OVERCROSSING
50,000,000
 
INSTALL SECURITY CAMERAS AT SELECTED PARKS
120,000
 
KING RESILIENCY CENTER
20,000,000
 
LAKESHORE COMMUNITY CENTER IMPROVEMENTS
1,000,000
 
LAUREL CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
9,567,000
 
LAURELWOOD / SUGARLOAF OPEN SPACE
8,215,000
 
MAIN LIBRARY IMPROVEMENTS
3,183,575
 
MARINER'S ISLAND BRIDGE APPROACH STABILIZATION
3,760,000
 
MONTE DIABLO AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
3,300,000
 
NEW CENTRAL PARK PARKING GARAGE
32,000,000
 
NEW CORPORATION YARD FACILITY
26,000,000
 
NEW FIRE STATION #27
11,000,000
 
PAINT EXTERIOR & INTERIOR MAIN STREET GARAGE
1,500,000
 
PALM AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
3,300,000
 
PARK RENOVATION SHOREVIEW PARK MASTER PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION
1,200,000
 
PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT - PHASE VI
1,000,000
 
PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
4,000,000
 
PASADENA ROADWAY RECONSTRUCTION
2,250,000
 
PATHWAY REPAIRS AT VARIOUS PARKS
375,000
 
PLANNING PARK DEVELOPMENT AT DALE AVE & ANCHOR RD
350,000
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT EXTERIOR - REPAINT DECK FENCING
300,000
 
POLICE DEPARTMENT INTERIOR WORK REORGANIZATION
150,000
 
REFURBISH NORTH END OF KOI POND
180,000
 
REST ROOM BUILDING REPLACEMENT TRINTA
350,000
 
RYDER CREEK BRIDGE PAINTING
750,000
 
SAN MATEO CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
2,620,000
 
SHORELINE PARKS 
5,000,000
 
STREETLIGHT MASTER PLAN
200,000
 
Grand Total
351,960,575
$  
   
187
931 of 1111

--- page 932 ---
APPENDIX
Appendix
188
932 of 1111

--- page 933 ---
Financial Policies
Statement of Purpose
The financial integrity of our City government is of utmost 
importance. To discuss, write, and adopt a set of financial 
policies is a key element to maintaining this integrity. Our 
City has evolved with a variety of financial policies that can 
be found in many different sources, including City Council 
resolutions, budget documents, and capital improvement 
programs. The set of policies within this document, adopted 
each year with our budget, serves as a central reference 
point of the most important of our policies, which are critical 
to the continued financial health of our local government.
Written, adopted financial policies have many benefits, 
such as assisting elected officials and staff in the financial 
management of the City, saving time and energy when
discussing financial matters, engendering public 
confidence, and providing continuity over time as elected 
officials and staff members change. While these policies will 
be amended periodically, they provide the foundation and 
framework for many of the issues and decisions facing the 
City. They promote sound financial management and assist 
in the City’s stability, efficiency, and effectiveness.
The following policies are divided into ten (10) general 
categories for ease of reference. These categories include:
1. General
2. Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting
3. Funding Balance and Reserve
4. Pension and Retirement Funding
5. Internal Service Fund
6. Debt
7. Revenue
8. Capital Improvement
9. Investment
10.	Operating Budget
Except as otherwise noted, all policies included in this 
document are currently adhered to.
Additionally, included at the end of this section are specific 
policy benchmarks along with their status.
General
The City will:
•
Manage its financial assets in a sound and prudent
manner.
•
Maintain and further develop programs to ensure its
long-term ability to fund core services and pay all
costs necessary to provide the level and quality of
service required by its citizens.
•
Establish and maintain investment policies that are in
accordance with State laws.
•
Follow the financial sustainability guiding principles to
provide a roadmap to guide future financial decisions.
Accounting, Auditing, and Financial 
Reporting
Accounting Standards
The City’s accounting of financial systems shall be 
maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP), standards of the 
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), and the 
Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA).
Annual Audit
An independent certified public accounting firm will 
perform an annual audit, and its opinions will be included in 
the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and presented 
to the City Council at a public meeting.
Financial Information
It is the policy of the City of San Mateo to provide all 
financial information in a thorough, timely fashion, and in 
a format that is easy for City Council, citizens, and City 
employees to understand and utilize.
It is the City’s goal to maintain accounting records, 
processes, and procedures in such a manner as to receive 
an unmodified audit opinion and to maintain a Certificate of 
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the 
GFOA.
Funding Balance and Reserve
The City utilizes a variety of accounting funds for recording 
revenues and expenditures of the City. At the end of each 
fiscal year, budgeted/appropriated expenditure authority 
lapses, with the exception of capital project spending and 
operating expenses that have been incurred but not paid 
(encumbered). The remaining dollars left in each fund are 
unassigned and constitute available funds of the City. Fund 
balance will be reported in the following classifications:
189
933 of 1111

--- page 934 ---
Financial Policies
Nonspendable Fund Balance
Amounts that are not in spendable form, such as inventory, 
prepaid amounts, long-term receivables, and those 
that legally or contractually must be kept intact, such as 
endowment corpus of revolving loan funds.
Restricted Fund Balance
Amounts that can be used only for specific purposes due to 
constitutional provisions, enabling legislation, or externally 
imposed constraints, such as restrictions imposed by 
creditors, grantors, or other governments.
Committed Fund Balance
Amounts that can only be used for specific purposes 
because of a formal action by the government’s highest 
decision-making authority. These constraints are binding 
unless removed in the same manner in which they were 
originally committed.
Assigned Fund Balance
Amounts intended for specific purposes but not restricted 
or committed. The assigned fund balance can never be in 
excess of the total fund balance less the non-spendable, 
restricted, and committed components of fund balance.
Ultimately, this is the residual fund balance for all funds 
other than General Fund.
Unassigned Fund Balance
The residual classification for the General Fund, the only 
governmental fund that can report a positive unassigned 
fund balance. Other funds might have a negative 
unassigned fund balance due to overspending restricted, 
committed, or assigned amounts.
General Fund
Based on City Council direction from the April 7, 2025 
meeting, the General Fund Reserve Policy has been 
amended and is incorporated into the FY 2025-26 Annual 
Budget.  The revised policy will take effective July 1, 2025 
and the full text is included in the Appendix of this budget 
book.
A summary is provided below:
•
Contingency Reserve will be maintained at 15% of
the General Fund budgeted operation expenditures.
This reserve will only be utilized for extraordinary,
one-time events that cause significant financial strain,
such as natural disasters, public health crises, legal
obligations, emergency infrastructure repairs, or major
unforeseen non-financial emergencies as determined
by the City Council.
•
•
Housing Set-Aside Reserve: Housing Element, 20%
of RDA residual property tax will be allocated annually
to the Housing Set-Aside Reserve at the discretion of
the City Council. This reserve will be used to support
affordable housing initiatives.
Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Carryover
Reserve will hold funds budgeted for capital
improvement projects that have not yet been
transferred to the Capital Projects Fund.
•
Budget Stabilization Reserve will be set at 15% of
the General Fund budgeted revenues. This reserve
will be replenished during economic growth periods
and utilized to stabilize the budget and maintain core
services during economic downturns.
The Finance Director shall develop a General Fund
long-range forecast and review the reserve levels
as part of the budget development process.  If the
Budget Stabilization Reserve falls below 10% in the
next two budget cycles per the long-range forecast,
the City Manager shall propose a plan to restore the
reserve to the target level, subject to City Council
approval.
•
Pension Stabilization Reserve is established to
mitigate impact of rising pension costs and prevent
unexpected increases in unfunded pension liabilities
from affecting city services. Initial contribution to this
reserve is $10 million.  Additional funding may come
from surplus funds, one-time revenues, or other
unrestricted funding sources, subject to City Council
approval.
Capital Projects Fund
The Capital Investment Reserve is established within the 
Capital Projects Fund to finance major capital improvement 
projects that are critical to support municipal services. The 
full policy text is included in the Appendix of this budget 
book.
A summary is provided below:
Use of the Capital Investment Reserve should be 
authorized by the City Council. 
Additional funding may come from surplus funds, one-time 
revenues, proceeds from the sales of properties, or other 
unrestricted funding sources, subject to Council approval.
To ensure transparency and accountability, the Finance 
Director shall provide an annual report on the status of the 
Capital Investment Reserve. This annual report shall be 
presented to the City Council during a regularly scheduled 
financial update.
190
934 of 1111

--- page 935 ---
Financial Policies
Enterprise Fund
The City’s Sewer Enterprise Fund will maintain reserves 
equal to four months of operating expenses.
Special Revenue Funds
The City’s Construction Services Fund will maintain 
reserves equal to twelve months of budgeted operating 
expenditures.
Pension and Retirement Funding
The City contracts with the California Public Employees' 
Retirement System for pension benefits. The City will 
make minimum annual payments for the employer share 
equal to the required Annual Required Contribution (ARC) 
established by actuarial valuation but, in any given year, no 
less than the normal cost.
The City offers a retiree health benefit to employees of
$160 per month. The City will fund the Actuarially-
Determined Contribution (ADC) established by actuarial 
valuation in an irrevocable trust. Actuarial valuations will be 
conducted on a biennial basis consistent with accounting 
standards.
Internal Service Fund
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
Through the use of the Vehicle/Equipment Replacement 
Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to 
provide for the orderly replacement of the City’s fleet, 
vehicles, computers, radios, equipment, technology 
infrastructure, and other major capital outlay. The fund 
is supported by charges to user departments, which are 
adjusted annually based on the departments’ proportionate 
share of estimated expenses*. Sufficient reserves will be 
maintained in the Replacement Fund to provide for the 
scheduled replacement of equipment at the end of their 
useful lives.
Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund
Through the use of the Fleet and Building Maintenance 
Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds 
to provide for orderly fleet and building maintenance 
and repair. The fund is supported by charges to user 
departments which are adjusted annually based on the 
department’s proportionate share of estimated expenses*. 
Sufficient reserves will be maintained in the Replacement 
Fund to provide for the scheduled replacement of 
equipment at the end of their useful lives.
*Internal service funds are allocated proportionate to the expenses with 
exception of the Community Development Block Grant Fund, which needs 
to maintain less than 10% in indirect costs. Charges may be reduced in this 
fund if necessary.
Risk Management Funds
The City maintains a Comprehensive Liability Insurance 
Fund and a Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund for the 
purpose of property, liability, and workers’ compensation 
expenses. These funds pay insurance premiums, benefit 
and settlement payments, and administrative and operating 
expenses. The City will complete an actuarial valuation of 
these funds every other year. The Workers’ Compensation 
Fund is supported by charges to other City funds for the 
services it provides*. These annual charges for service 
shall reflect historical experience and shall be established 
to approximately equal the annual expenses of the fund. 
The Comprehensive Liability Fund is predominantly 
supported by the General Fund. Separate reserves shall 
be maintained for current and long-term general liability 
and workers’ compensation liability at a level which will 
adequately fund the City’s potential loss exposure in each 
area. The practice is to establish reserves in both funds at 
least at the marginally acceptable level as determined by 
the actuarial report.
Debt
The City is bound by a provision in State law limiting 
indebtedness for California cities to 15% of the assessed 
value of all real and personal property of the City. The 
City of San Mateo has been prudent in its use of debt to 
finance projects and major purchases. Prior to the issuance 
of any debt, the funding source for the debt service is 
identified and designated. The level of debt to which the 
City obligates itself is managed within available resources 
and represents a minimal cost to general taxpayers. 
By managing the repayment of new debt, current City 
operations are not affected.
Credit Rating
It is the City’s goal for its general obligation (GO) bonds to 
maintain a AAA rating, and for the Sewer Enterprise to
maintain a AA-/Aa2 credit rating. The factors that contribute 
to the high rating include the City’s strong financial 
management, low debt levels, budgetary and fiscal 
controls, and accountability. To support this policy, the 
City will continue to maintain its position of full financial 
disclosure and proactive fiscal planning.
191
935 of 1111

--- page 936 ---
Financial Policies
Revenue
General Fund Revenue
The City will strive to develop and maintain a diversified 
and reliable revenue stream to avoid becoming overly 
dependent on any single type of revenue. Efforts will
be directed to optimize existing revenue sources while 
periodically reviewing potential new revenue sources. 
Budgeted revenues will be estimated conservatively using 
accepted standards and estimates provided by the state, 
other governmental agencies, or reliable economic
forecasters, when available. Due to the volatile nature of 
the property transfer tax, revenue is projected using a 
consistent methodology based on historical averages.
Grants
The City shall actively pursue federal, state, and other 
grant opportunities when deemed appropriate. Before 
accepting any grant, the City shall thoroughly consider 
the implications in terms of ongoing obligations that will 
be required in connection with acceptance of said grant, 
including replacement and ongoing operating costs.
Enterprise Fund Fees and Charges
The City will set user fees for its Enterprise Fund at a rate 
that fully covers direct and indirect costs of providing
the service, planned capital improvements that may be 
necessary from time to time, and maintains a debt coverage 
ratio of at least 120% of net revenues for compliance 
purposes with outstanding debt covenants.
User Service Fees
The City may impose user fees wherever appropriate. 
Such fees will recover the cost of providing the service, 
demonstrating a nexus to benefits received, including 
all direct and indirect costs, administrative overhead, 
depreciation, etc. By policy, Council may direct certain
fees to be lowered for particular purposes. Waivers of user 
fees will be presented for Council approval as appropriate. 
Certain fees are based upon market conditions and are not 
subject to the limitations of cost recovery. These fees may 
be adjusted periodically by the City Council. In general, 
fees will be reviewed no less than annually to ensure that 
full cost recovery levels are identified.
Capital Improvement
Five-Year Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
The City shall annually prepare a capital improvement 
spending program, projecting capital needs for a five-year 
period. This CIP shall be comprised of all the City’s funds. 
The City has been working toward providing a reasonable 
regular contribution from the General Fund to capital 
improvements without reducing services. The first year
of the five-year CIP will be consistent with, and adopted 
as a component of, the annual operating budget. In the 
development of the Capital Improvement Program, the 
operating costs associated with the capital project will be 
projected and considered in conjunction with the CIP.
Enterprise Fund Capital Improvements
Capital Improvements funded from the Enterprise Fund 
shall be paid for in a combination of “pay-as-you-go” 
financing and the use of long-term debt. The City shall 
periodically review its enterprise capital needs and 
establish capital spending plans that are appropriate and 
reflect a combination of debt and “pay-as-you-go,” while 
attempting to keep the enterprise service rates competitive 
with those in the surrounding area.
Investment
The Investment Advisory Committee and City Council shall 
annually review and update, or modify as appropriate, the 
City’s investment policy. The policy shall be adopted by 
resolution of the City Council based upon the City staff and 
Investment Advisory Committee’s recommendations.
Reports on the City’s investment portfolio shall be 
developed and presented to the City Council quarterly. City 
funds will be managed in a prudent and diligent manner 
with emphasis on safety, liquidity, and yield, in that order.
Operating Budget
Balanced Operating Budget
It is the City’s policy to adopt a balanced budget where 
operating revenues and available resources are equal to 
or exceed operating expenditures. Any year-end operating 
surpluses will revert to unappropriated balances for use
in maintaining reserve levels set by policy or available 
for capital projects and/or “one-time only” General Fund 
expenditures.
192
936 of 1111

--- page 937 ---
Financial Policies
Budget Document
The budget document shall serve as the official financial 
plan for the City. It will serve as the policy document of the 
City Council for implementing Council goals and objectives. 
The budget shall provide staff the resources necessary to 
accomplish City Council-determined service levels.
The City has two-year business plan development 
procedures. The two-year business plan process requires 
that each department submit two one-year expenditure 
plans and revenue estimates to be provided to the City 
Council for approval. Only the first of the two-year budget 
will be adopted. The second year represents a projected 
plan which will be subject to amendment in the following 
year. In any budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing 
economic and/or operational conditions, the City may 
choose to develop a one-year plan instead of a two-year 
budget plan.
Budget Control and Accountability
Department heads are responsible for containing 
expenditures within their budgeted appropriations as 
approved by the City Council. Subsequent to the adoption 
of the budget, all additional changes to the budget that 
have a financial impact require City Manager and City 
Council approval.
Activities of the General Fund, Special Revenue Funds, 
Debt Service Funds, Proprietary, and Capital Funds are 
included in the annual budget. The level of budgetary 
control is the department within each fund.
193
937 of 1111

--- page 938 ---
Financial Policies
Policy Status
ACCOUNTING
Benchmark
The City's accounting of financial systems shall be maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP), standards of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), and the Government Finance Officers Association 
(GFOA).
Status
Met
Benchmark
It is the City’s goal to maintain accounting records, processes, and procedures in such a manner as to receive an unmodified audit 
opinion and to maintain a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the GFOA.
Status
Met
RESERVE / SINKING FUND
Benchmark
The General Fund’s Contingency Reserve will be maintained at 15% of the annual General Fund operating expenditure budget.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The General Fund’s Housing Set-Aside Reserve will be used to support affordable housing initiatives. Replenishment is at the 
discretion of the City Council, and usage requires Council authorization. 
Status
Met
Benchmark
The General Fund’s Budget Stabilization Reserves has a target level set at 15% of the General Fund budgeted revenues. This 
reserve will be replenished during economic growth periods and utilized to stabilize the budget and maintain core services during 
economic downturns
Status
Met
Benchmark
The General Fund’s Pension Stabilization Reserve is established to mitigate impact of rising pension costs. It will be utilized to 
stabilize pension contribution and prevent unexpected increases in required pension contribution from affecting city service 
levels.  Usage of this reserve requires City Council approval.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City’s Sewer Enterprise Fund will maintain reserves equal to four months of operating expenses.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City’s Construction Services Fund will maintain reserves equal to twelve months of budgeted operating expenditures.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City will maintain Comprehensive Liability and Workers’ Compensation insurance reserves at no less than marginally 
acceptable confidence levels.
Status
Met
Benchmark
Through the use of the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to provide for the 
orderly replacement of the City’s fleet, vehicles, computers, radios, equipment, technology infrastructure, and other major capital 
outlay.
Status
Met 
Benchmark
Through the use of the Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to provide for the 
orderly fleet and building maintenance and repair.
Status
Met 
Benchmark
A sinking fund for building component/replacement will be maintained.
Status
Annual baseline funding of $410,000 has been provided for HVAC, roofing, floor covering, and remodel projects. 
194
938 of 1111

--- page 939 ---
Financial Policies
DEBT
Benchmark
It is the City’s goal for its general obligation (GO) bonds to maintain a AAA rating, and for the Sewer Enterprise to maintain a AA-/ 
Aa2 credit rating.
Status
Met. GO Bonds rated AAA by S&P. Sewer Enterprise rated Aa2 by Moody's, AA- by S&P.
REVENUE
Benchmark
Budgeted revenues will be estimated conservatively using accepted standards and estimates provided by the state, other 
governmental agencies, or reliable economic forecasters when available.
Status
Met
Benchmark
Property Transfer Tax is projected using a consistent methodology, which takes a long-term perspective to temper variance from 
year to year.
Status
Met. Property transfer tax is estimated at $8.0 million per year throughout the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan, 
reflecting the expectation that the federal funds rate will gradually decline, and the lower interest rate environment will buoy 
the real estate market.
Benchmark
Full cost recovery for user fees will be achieved.
Status
Met. All charges for services are based on the cost of providing the services.
Benchmark
Full cost recovery for indirect costs will be achieved.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City shall actively pursue federal, state, and other grant opportunities when deemed appropriate.
Status
Met. Continuing to assess and apply for grants with a focus on ensuring matching funds are identified, as applicable, and 
ongoing costs are considered.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
Benchmark
The City has been working toward providing a reasonable regular transfer from the General Fund to capital improvements without 
reducing services.
Status
Met. The baseline General Fund transfer is $2.69 million to fund streets, building components, and sidewalk repair.
Benchmark
Continue to use bond proceeds and other funding sources for capital projects.
Status
Met. Examples are streets and flood control, golf course, wastewater treatment plant, library, and fire station.
INVESTMENT
Benchmark
City funds will be managed in a prudent and diligent manner with emphasis on safety, liquidity, and yield; in that order.
Status
Met
OPERATING BUDGET
Benchmark
It is the City's policy to adopt a balanced budget, where operating revenues and available resources are equal to or exceed 
operating expenditures.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City Manager shall annually prepare and present a proposed operating budget through two study sessions by no later than 
June of the prior fiscal year; and City Council will adopt said budget no later than June 30th of each year.
Status
Met
Policy Status
195
939 of 1111

--- page 940 ---
General Fund Reserves Policy
City of San Mateo, California 
Financial Policy 
General Fund Reserves 
I. Purpose
The General Fund Reserve is established to ensure that the City of San Mateo (the City) can sustain 
municipal services during economic downturns, natural disasters and other major emergencies.  
Three of the General Fund’s primary revenue sources are property tax, sales tax, and real property transfer 
tax.  Sales tax and real property transfer tax are highly sensitive to economic cycles.  While property tax 
remains stable, uncertainties around the property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF) shortfalls and 
unfunded pension liabilities create additional long-term financial risks.  Further, the City must be prepared 
for seismic and other catastrophic events that could threaten the City’s long-term fiscal health. 
This policy outlines the management, usage, and replenishment of the General Fund reserves to ensure the 
City’s financial stability and sustainability. 
II. Amounts Held in the General Fund Reserves
The General Fund Reserves are divided into five primary categories:
1.
Contingency Reserve
The General Fund Contingency Reserve will be maintained at 15% of the General Fund budgeted
operating expenditures.  This reserve will only be utilized for extraordinary, one-time events that
cause significant financial strain, such as natural disasters, public health crises, legal obligations,
emergency infrastructure repairs, or major unforeseen non-financial emergencies as determined by
the City Council.  This reserve is not intended to address revenue losses due to normal economic
cycles.  City Council authorization is required for any use of this reserve.
2.
Housing Set-Aside Reserve
In accordance with the approved Housing Element, 20% of RDA residual property tax will be
allocated annually to the Housing Set-Aside Reserve at the discretion of the City Council. This
reserve will be used to support affordable housing initiatives with City Council authorization.
3.
Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Carryover Reserve:
The General Fund CIP Carryover Reserve will hold funds budgeted for capital improvement projects
that have not yet been transferred to the Capital Projects Fund.  This reserve is designed to separate
committed funds from the remaining General Fund reserves, to ensure effective financial planning
and to prevent commingling of designated capital project funds with other reserves.
4.
Budget Stabilization Reserve
The General Fund Budget Stabilization Reserve will be set at 15% of the General Fund budgeted
revenues.  This reserve is intended to stabilize the General Fund budget during economic downturns
or unforeseen expenditure increases to maintain service levels.  This reserve will be replenished
during economic growth periods and utilized to stabilize the budget and maintain core services
during economic downturns.
196
940 of 1111

--- page 941 ---
General Fund Reserves Policy
The 15% target level serves as a goal range, not a minimum, recognizing that this reserve is intended 
to be used during economic downturns. It is expected that the balance may fall below 15% in 
challenging times, as the reserve is designed to help stabilize the budget and maintain essential 
services.  If economic conditions or long-term financial risks warrant additional reserves, the City 
Council may temporarily increase the Budget Stabilization Reserve above 15% to strengthen the 
City’s financial position. 
The Finance Director shall develop a General Fund long-range forecast and review General Fund 
reserve levels as part of the budget development process.  If the Budget Stabilization Reserve is 
projected to fall below 10% in the next two budget cycles per the long-range forecast, the City 
Manager shall propose a plan to restore the reserve to the target level, subject to City Council 
approval. 
5.
Pension Stabilization Reserve
The General Fund Pension Stabilization Reserve is established to mitigate impact of rising pension
costs and prevent unexpected increases in unfunded pension liabilities from affecting city services.
This reserve is intended to stabilize the City’s annual pension contributions to maintain service
levels.
If pension cost uncertainty declines, the Finance Director shall propose options to adjust the reserve
level based on the assessed risk, subject to City Council approval. Options may include making one-
time discretionary payment to CalPERS to reduce the City’s unfunded pension liabilities.
Initial funding shall be determined at the discretion of the City Council.  Additional funding may
come from surplus funds, one-time revenues, or other unrestricted funding sources, subject to City
Council approval.
Investment earnings generated from this reserve will be credited back to the reserve.
III. Unassigned Fund Balance
Unassigned fund balance represents the portion of General Fund balance that is not restricted, committed, or 
assigned to specific purposes, including the reserve requirements outlined above.  It is the most flexible 
portion of the General Fund balance and is available at the discretion of the City Council.   
This balance may serve as an additional cushion for unforeseen expenses.  If the unassigned fund balance 
exceeds 10% of General Fund budgeted expenditures, the Finance Director shall propose options for City 
Council consideration as part of the budget development process.  These options may include additional 
contributions to the Capital Investment Reserve, one-time capital improvements, pension liability reduction, 
or other long-term financial priorities.  City Council authorization is required for any allocation of the excess 
funds. 
IV. Annual Review of Policy
The General Fund Reserve policy will be reviewed at least annually with the development of each fiscal 
year’s budget. If changes are deemed necessary, to safeguard its effectiveness and relevance to the City’s 
long-term needs, or to ensure that the policy remains current with government financial best practices, 
changes to the policy may be authorized by the City Council at any time. 
197
941 of 1111

--- page 942 ---
Capital Investment Reserve Policy
City of San Mateo, California 
Financial Policy 
Capital Investment Reserve 
I. Purpose
The Capital Investment Reserve is established within the Capital Projects Fund to finance major capital 
improvement projects that are critical to support municipal services. These projects may lack immediate 
funding or have funding not yet identified. This policy outlines how the Capital Investment Reserve will be 
funded and the conditions under which funds may be expended. 
II. Funding the Reserve
1.
Initial Funding:
City Council reviews and approves initial funding for the Reserve, with future additional funding
made in subsequent years, generally from the General Fund budgetary surplus.
2.
Additional Funding:
Additional contributions to the Reserve may be made from surplus funds, one-time revenues,
proceeds from the sales of City properties, or other unrestricted funding sources.  These
contributions will require City Council approval.   City staff will review the General Fund’s funding
levels annually and make recommendations to transfer funds from the General Fund to the Capital
Investment Reserve as part of the annual budget adoption process.
3.
Interest Earnings:
Any interest earned from the Reserve will be credited to the General Fund.
III. Conditions for Use of Reserves
1.
Expenditures:
Reserve funds may only be used for projects that are specifically authorized by the City Council.
These projects should be identified in the City's Capital Improvement Plan and must address critical
unfunded capital needs. The reserve is not intended to cover operating expenditures or recurring costs.
2.
Authority for Use:
Only the City Council can authorize the use of funds from the Capital Investment Reserve.  The
typical authorization process will occur with the adoption of the annual budget; however, Council
can authorize the utilization of these funds at any other time through a resolution. This includes any
inter-fund borrowing, which must be approved by the City Council, along with repayment terms.
IV. Annual Reporting
To ensure transparency and accountability, the Finance Director shall provide an annual report on the status 
of the Capital Investment Reserve. This annual report shall be presented to the City Council during a 
regularly scheduled financial update, such as the mid-year budget update or public hearings on the City’s 
budget. It shall include the reserve balance, contributions made during the fiscal year, expenditures, and if 
any, planned uses for future capital projects. 
V. Annual Policy Review
This Policy will be reviewed annually during the budget process. The City Council may amend the policy at 
any time to ensure its effectiveness, alignment with the City’s long-term financial goals, or compliance with 
current best practices. 
198
942 of 1111

--- page 943 ---
Gann Appropriations Limit
CITY OF SAN MATEO APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2025-26
 AMOUNT 
SOURCE
A
Last Year’s Limit
$
268,524,256
2024-25 Limit
B
Adjustment Factors
1.
Population
 1.0009 
CA Dept. of Finance
2.
Inflation
 1.0644 
CA Dept. of Finance
 1.0654 
B1*B2
Total Adjustment %
 0.0654 
B1*B2-1
C
Annual Adjustment
$
17,550,198
A*B
D
This Year’s Limit
$
286,074,454
A+C
E
Tax Proceeds Subject to the Limit
Property Tax
$
90,822,000
2025-26 Budget
Sales Tax
27,600,000
2025-26 Budget
Property Transfer Tax
8,600,000
2025-26 Budget
Other Tax
12,613,000
2025-26 Budget
Interest Allocation
6,030,000
2025-26 Budget
Total  
$
145,665,000
Amount Under / (Over) Limit
$
140,409,454
D-E
City of San Mateo Gann Appropriations Limit as Defined in Article XIII B of the       
California State Constitution
The voters of California, during a special election in 1979, 
approved Article XIII-B of the California State Constitution. 
Informally known as the “Gann Initiative,” Article XIII-B 
provides limits regarding the total amount of appropriations 
in any fiscal year from “the proceeds of taxes.”
In 1980, the State Legislature added Section 7900 et seq. 
to the Government Code, providing that the governing 
body of each local jurisdiction must establish, by resolution, 
an appropriations limit for the following year. The 
appropriations limit for any fiscal year was equal to the 
previous year’s limit, adjusted for population changes and 
the changes in the US Consumer Price Index (or California 
per capita personal income, if smaller). The necessary 
statistical information is provided by the California 
Department of Finance.
However, the original Article XIII-B (Proposition 4) and its 
implementing legislation were modified by Proposition 111 
and SB 88 by the voters in June 1980. The changes were 
incorporated into the fiscal year 1990-91 and fiscal year 
1991- 92 appropriations limits. Beginning with the fiscal 
year 1990- 91 appropriations limit, a city may choose annual 
adjustment factors. The adjustment factors include the 
growth in the California per capita income or the growth in 
the non- residential assessed valuation due to construction 
within the City and the population growth within the county 
or the city.
The table below provides the calculation for the 
appropriations limit for fiscal year 2025-26, as well as the 
total appropriations subject to the limit. The adjustment 
factors utilized for the fiscal year 2025-26 calculation 
include the growth in California per capita income and the 
population growth within the County of San Mateo. As the 
table demonstrates, the City’s appropriations subject to the 
limit ($139.4 million) are well below the appropriations limit 
itself ($286.1 million).
199
943 of 1111

--- page 944 ---
Budget Changes
Full Time Equivilant (FTE) Personnel Changes
DEPARTMENT
ACTION
2025-26 
PROPOSED
POSITION/SERVICE ENHANCEMENTS
FUNDING 
SOURCE
FISCAL 
IMPACT
Reallocate 1.0 FTE Assistant City Attorney to 1.0 FTE Senior 
Assistant City Attorney
Reallocating to provide a pathway for career advancement 
within the department.
Reallocate 1.0 FTE Systems Analyst ll to 1.0 FTE Senior Systems 
Analyst
Reallocating to provide a pathway for career advancement 
within the department. The additional costs of $25,000 will be 
offset by budget savings within the department
Add 1.0 FTE Human Resources Technician for a two-year limited 
term.
Support recruitment, onboarding, training and benefit 
administration for the new Waste Water Treatment Plant.
Net Change to Merit Positions
1.0
FTE
166,500
$      
New
Human Resources
1.0
Sewer Fund
140,000
         
26,500
$         
Net Zero
General Fund 
Information Technology
City Attorney
Reallocate
Reallocate
 - 
 - 
General Fund 
and 
Comprehensive 
Liability Fund
200
944 of 1111

--- page 945 ---
Budget Changes
Non-Personnel Operating Changes
DEPARTMENT
SERVICE ENHANCEMENTS
FUND
 2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
City Manager's Office
Community survey, polling, and communication services.
General Fund
250,000
$                   
Information Technology
Catergraph system renewal.
General Fund
20,900
                        
Information Technology
Purchase Nutanix clusters. 
General Fund
20,900
                        
Information Technology
Cisco licensing cost.
General Fund
37,708
                        
Police
Budget savings from Real Time Information Center (RTIC)
General Fund
(210,000)
                    
Police
Axon contractual costs (RTIC/Fusus). 
Measure CC Fund
200,000
                      
Police
Per diem staffing need for the RTIC.
General Fund
160,000
                      
Police
Overtime to meet staffing need for Youth Services 
General Fund
70,000
                        
Police
Overtime to meet staffing need for the Patrol Unit
General Fund
300,000
                      
Police
To meet funding need for the annaul contract with San Mateo County for Animal Control 
Services
General Fund
50,000
                        
Public Works
Expenditure controls and cost shift: Budget savings due to the negotiated office lease
General Fund
(135,000)
                    
Public Works
Remaining funding needed to purchase electric sweeper in addition to C/CAG grant 
funding.
Solid Waste Fund
631,000
                      
Public Works
Worker Resource Center Pilot Program: Additional cleaning services for Downtown and 
25th Ave.
Solid Waste Fund
60,000
                        
Solid Waste Fund
100,000
                      
General Fund
(100,000)
                    
Advanced Planning 
Fund
131,808
                      
General Fund
(131,808)
                    
Public Works
Enhancing cost recovery: Increase CIP Staff Chargeback to improve cost recovery for the 
General Fund
General Fund
(1,000,000)
                 
Public Works
1st year of mitigation plan design and development plan including joint agency lagoon 
general maintenance permit mitigation and reporting costs.
Storm Fund
90,000
                        
Public Works
Increase budget to support the new WWTP facility coming online in FY 2025-26.
Sewer Fund
772,200
                      
Public Works
Expenditure controls and cost shift:  clean up budget no longer needed 
Fleet and Building 
Maint. Fund
(130,000)
                    
Public Works
Increase budget for elevator maintenancce
Fleet and Building 
Maint. Fund
50,000
                        
Fleet and Building 
Maint. Fund
120,000
                      
General Fund
(120,000)
                    
Totals
1,237,708
$                
Expenditure controls and cost shift: Transportation staffing costs related to implementation 
of the General Plan Update will be charged to the Advanced Planning Fund instead of the 
General Fund.
Expenditure controls and cost shift:  Power washing of Downtown and 25th Avenues will be 
funded by the Solid Waste Fund instead of the General Fund.
Expenditure controls and cost shift:  Reallocating City Hall Cal Water and PG&E charges to 
the Fleet and Building Maint. Internal Service Fund.
Public Works
Public Works
Public Works
201
945 of 1111

--- page 946 ---
Equity Initiatives FY 24-25 Results 
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
City 
Attorney’s 
Office 
Assist City staff 
with municipal 
code amendments 
implementing DEI 
framework 
Prepare amendments to Community 
Relations Commission (CRC), Senior Citizens 
Commission ordinances. Draft code changes 
allowing youth participation on additional 
boards/committees. 
Complete: staff prepared the code amendments allowing for 
youth participation on certain commissions which was adopted 
on September 3, 2024, and the code update to the CRC ordinance 
was adopted on the same day.  Changes to the Senior 
Commission ordinance were adopted on December 9, 2024.   
City Clerk’s 
Office 
Broaden outreach 
and recruitment 
strategies for 
Boards, 
Commissions, and 
Committees to 
bolster inclusive 
participation 
reflecting the 
diversity of the City 
of San Mateo’s 
community. 
• 
Increase the number of applicants per 
vacancy. 
• 
Broaden the range of applicants by 
engaging with individuals from 
underrepresented groups. 
• 
Utilize established partnerships and 
explore new collaborations to advertise 
and highlight vacancies. 
• 
Inform the community about the City's 
advisory committees and ways for 
individuals to engage and take part in 
these opportunities. 
 
Complete: The City Clerk’s Office continued to advance its 
commitment to equity and inclusive civic engagement through its 
second full implementation of the Outreach Success Plan. This 
initiative focuses on expanding awareness of Boards, 
Commissions, and Committees (BCCs) and increasing participation 
from underrepresented segments of the community. The 2025 
spring recruitment cycle delivered measurable outcomes, most 
notably: A 78% increase in total applications compared to 2024 
and a 368% increase compared to the 2023 recruitment cycle. 
202
946 of 1111

--- page 947 ---
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
City 
Manager’s 
Office 
Enhance 
community 
engagement and 
dialogue with our 
underrepresented 
populations. 
Evaluate and gather comprehensive input 
from diverse neighborhoods, including 
Asian, Pacific Islander, and Black 
communities, and to strengthen 
connections between residents and the City. 
 
Complete: Over the past eight City Manager’s Office staff hosted 
a series of community conversations aimed at building stronger 
connections with its diverse populations, specifically the 
Asian/Pacific Islander, African American, and Latinx 
communities—groups that have historically had less engagement 
with the City. These dialogues provided essential insights into the 
unique needs, challenges, and aspirations of these communities, 
helping to shape a clear vision for a more inclusive and vibrant 
San Mateo. 
 
Key issues identified during the conversations included housing 
affordability, transportation, and traffic congestion. Additionally, 
residents expressed a strong desire for increased civic 
engagement opportunities and community events that foster 
stronger neighborhood connections. 
 
Community 
Development 
Establish a CDD 
Outreach and 
Engagement Policy 
that incorporates 
the DEI Framework 
Establish a consistent and reliable 
framework which Incorporates DEI, for 
hosting a community meeting 
Complete: The Community Development Department established 
a consistent and reliable framework which Incorporates DEI, for 
hosting a community meeting. 
 
As of May 27, 2025 the Department created a methodology and 
framework for an outreach plan incorporating many elements 
including a community meeting. 
 
Finance 
Improve Finance 
counter services for 
business license 
To enhance the process for obtaining a new 
business license and managing annual 
renewals, here are some improvements for 
the work plan: (1) extend office hours; (2) 
enhance the Finance Dept’s website to 
provide clear step-by-step guides for 
business license application and renewals, 
and (3) for over-the-counter customers, 
provide printed guides (in major languages) 
that clearly outline the process, necessary 
documents, and fees involved. 
Complete: Effective October 21, 2024, the Finance Department 
extended its public counter hours from 8:00–11:30 AM and 1:00–
4:00 PM to 8:00 AM–12:00 PM and 1:00–4:30 PM. This change 
improves customer service availability for both residents and 
businesses. 
 
Finance staff are enhancing the department’s website to include 
step-by-step guides for business license applications and 
renewals, along with multilingual PDF resources. For in-person 
visitors, staff are developing printed guides in major languages 
including Spanish, including large-print versions for improved 
visual accessibility. 
203
947 of 1111

--- page 948 ---
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
Human 
Resources 
Update 
recruitment 
marketing and 
outreach strategies 
• 
Develop & implement ideas to expand 
recruitment outreach and diversify the 
City’s applicant pool, especially with 
respect to youth and seniors.   
• 
Work to attract and retain youth/young 
adult interns by partnering with outside 
organizations and centralizing internship 
opportunities. 
In Progress: The Human Resources Department is currently 
developing a proposal to establish a formal and customized 
“Recruitment, Marketing, and Outreach Plan” for the City of San 
Mateo. The purpose is to expand recruitment, marketing, and 
outreach activities in an effort to develop partnerships to build 
pipelines for City jobs and diversify the City’s applicant pool, 
including youth and seniors. Currently, we are in the planning 
phase in identifying options and developing work plans, timelines, 
and estimated costs.  
 
 
 
Information 
Technology 
Implement a 
Customer 
Relationship 
Management 
system 
Apply the DEI Strategic Framework to the 
selection and implementation of a CRM that 
will coordinate and manage citizen requests 
Complete: Information Technology included DEI considerations in 
the selection of the product to be implemented for the Customer 
Relationship Management RFP. Specifically, the RFP asks vendors 
to provide the following features and functionality: 
 
• 
Mobile device accessibility (for those without home 
computers or Internet, but have access to a smartphone) 
• 
Accessibility compliance with WCAG 2.1 Level AA 
standards to ensure accessibility for users with disabilities 
• 
Bilingual Public Support in both English and Spanish 
• 
Enhanced Accessibility Features including support of 
accessible attachments (e.g., tagged PDFs), high contrast 
themes, and allowance for text resizing without loss of 
functionality.  
 
Information Technology also required the system allow City staff 
to enter cases for those who call or walk-in to a City location for 
help (people with no access to technology). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
204
948 of 1111

--- page 949 ---
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
Library 
Strengthen and 
expand outreach 
services as well as 
improve services to 
neurodiverse 
patrons. 
Purchase new outreach van. Hire full-time 
community services coordinator. Identify 
underserved areas where we can expand 
outreach. 
Complete: The library has made efforts to successfully carry out 
their initiative. This can be seen through monthly outreach to 
Hillcrest Juvenile Hall and consistent engagement with English 
language learners in local public high schools help us connect with 
underserved youth. For the past year, children’s librarians have 
visited Peninsula Family Services and Intercommunal Preschool 
monthly to provide story times. They prioritize visits to preschools 
that are state subsidized. In addition, The Library has maintained 
a strong presence at local cultural and resource events, including 
the B Street Fiesta, AAPI Cultural Event, and Lunar New Year 
celebrations. These events allow The Library to build meaningful 
connections with residents across linguistic, cultural, and 
socioeconomic backgrounds who live in different parts of the city. 
The Library has made an effort to offer programming in the North 
Central neighborhood with the bilingual cultural performance, 
San Mateo Juega, and an accompanying resource fair. The hiring 
of the new Community Services Coordinator greatly assisted the 
work for Juega and other San Mateo Celebrates events as we 
were able to effectively utilize volunteers. The new outreach van 
was purchased and The Library is in the process of designing a 
wrap for the vehicle.  
 
Additionally, The Library partners with the SMC Veterans 
Outreach Group for monthly tabling at the library and participate 
in events such as the SMCO Veterans Christmas Event and the 
Veteran's Curation Program Networking Event. They are also 
enhancing our senior outreach through a new partnership with 
enABLE Care Management, launching our first collaborative 
program in July 2025. Librarians make visits to local senior 
housing such as the Villa Apartments to inform residents about 
library services and resources.  
 
The Library's first Spanish-language gardening program was a 
success and reflects our commitment to expanding bilingual and 
culturally relevant programming. Outreach to the Peninsula 
Jewish Community Center and participation in school-based 
resource fairs further The Library's goal of reaching a wide range 
of communities. The children’s division added a Portuguese 
205
949 of 1111

--- page 950 ---
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
storytime in February due to community interest. Now, the library 
has three monthly world language storytimes in Portugese, 
Polish, and Persian. 
Teen programs are intentionally inclusive, welcoming 
neurodiverse and neurotypical participants alike. Based on 
feedback from parents, they would like for their children to 
participate in programs that are open to everyone and not just 
neurodiverse teens. Staff participated in several trainings on 
neurodiversity. The children’s team made a connection with The 
Burkhard School, an independent school designed for 
neurodivergent learners to thrive. They are hoping to visit the 
school soon to learn more about their services and how the 
library can provide support. In recognition of Autism Awareness 
Month the Children’s Division hosted Sally J. Pla, neurodiversity 
advocate and award-winning author on April 24. Sally conducted 
two morning school assemblies, at Sunnybrae Elementary and 
College Park Elementary as well as an evening event at the Main 
Library. 
Parks & 
Recreation 
Change Title of 
Senior Citizens 
Commission to 
Senior Advisory 
Commission. 
Change the Title of the Senior Citizens 
COmmission to the Senior Advisory 
Committee to be more inclusive. 
Complete: In regard to Parks & Recreation, the Commission title 
was updated to "Senior Advisory Commission" following 
evaluations of other agencies and input from resident surveys 
after the Commission shared the original Senior Citizens 
Commission title may be perceived as exclusive to citizens. On 
December 9, 2024, the Municipal Code was revised to include the 
title update and broaden the commission’s scope, orienting it to 
address city-wide projects and programs beyond focus on the San 
Mateo Senior Center. This initiative reflects the growing needs of 
the senior community across the city and allows increased input 
on City services. 
Police 
Domestic Violence 
Emergency 
Response Team 
(DVERT) 
Incorporate DEI into the DVERT program. 
Invite select community members to join 
our working group to help us craft our 
program (policy, training, hiring, etc.)  
Complete: The Police Department, in close collaboration with the 
County and Community Overcoming Relationship Abuse (CORA), 
has continued to advance the Domestic Violence Emergency 
Response Team (DVERT) co-response model. This innovative 
206
950 of 1111

--- page 951 ---
Department 
Equity Initiative 
Work Plan 
Status Update 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ensure that the program evaluator includes 
DEI in the evaluation, with a heavy emphasis 
on community feedback on the program's 
progress. 
 
partnership strengthens our collective response to domestic 
violence by integrating trauma-informed, survivor-centered 
practices. 
 
In alignment with our commitment to Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion (DEI), we are incorporating DEI principles throughout all 
facets of the DVERT program, including policy development, 
training, and hiring practices. To ensure authentic community 
representation, we have initiated the formation of a working 
group that includes select community members who will provide 
guidance and feedback as the program evolves. 
 
Additionally, the program evaluator has been directed to include 
DEI as a core component of the evaluation framework, with a 
strong emphasis on collecting and incorporating community 
feedback on the program’s progress and impact. 
 
Following an exhaustive recruitment effort, a promising candidate 
for the DVERT role has been identified. A comprehensive 
background investigation is currently underway and is expected 
to be completed shortly. 
 
Public Works 
Deploy feminine 
hygiene products in 
all City staff 
bathrooms.   
Identify all city staff bathrooms that 
currently don’t have supplies of feminine 
hygiene products.  Facilities staff to procure 
and install the necessary hardware for 
distribution. Amend/revise janitorial 
services contract to include provision of 
appropriate supplies for all restrooms going 
forward. 
 
In Progress: Public Works Facilities staff have installed equipment 
for provision of feminine hygiene products in approximately 30% 
of City facilities to-date and provision of products via the 
custodial contract is incorporated into the new custodial 
agreement that starts on July 1.  Facilities staff will continue 
deploying the distribution equipment after budget is replenished 
on July 1 with adoption of the FY 2025-26 operating budget. 
207
951 of 1111

--- page 952 ---
Glossary
Appropriation
An authorization granted by the City Council to make 
expenditures and to incur obligations for specific purposes.
Audit
A review of the City’s accounts by an independent 
accounting firm to verify that the City’s financial statements 
accurately reflect the City’s financial position.
Base Budget
Estimate of the funding level, excluding limited term items, 
required to continue existing service levels during the next 
fiscal year.
Budget
A comprehensive financial plan of operation embodying an 
estimate of proposed expenditures for a given period and 
the proposed means of financing them.
Capital Acquisitions
Items of a permanent or semi-permanent nature that last 
multiple years.
Capital Improvements
A permanent major addition to the City’s real property 
assets including the design, construction, purchase, or 
major renovation of land, buildings, or facilities.  Examples 
are the installation or repair of new or existing streets, 
traffic signals, sewer lines, roads, and parks.
Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
An ongoing plan of single and multiple-year capital 
expenditures, which is updated annually.
Compensated Absences
An employee’s paid time off of work, which can consist of 
elements such as vacation time and sick leave.
Debt Service
The payment of interest and principal on borrowed funds.
Deficit
The result of an excess of expenditures over resources.
Department
A major administrative division of the City with overall 
management responsibility for an operation or a group of 
related operations within a functional area.
Depreciation
(1) Expiration in the service life of capital outlay assets
attributable to wear and tear, deterioration, action of the
physical elements, inadequacy, or obsolescence; (2) the
portion of the cost of a capital asset that is charged as an
expense during a particular period.
Division
An organizational subunit of a department which 
encompasses a substantial portion of the duties assigned 
to a department.
Encumbrance
A commitment of funds for goods or services for which the 
expenditure has not yet occurred.
Enterprise Fund
A fund established to account for operations of the City that 
are financed and operated in a manner similar to private 
business enterprises.
Expenditure
The amount of cash paid or to be paid for services 
rendered, goods received, or an asset purchased.
Fiscal Year
The twelve-month period to which the annual budget 
applies.  In San Mateo, this period of time is July 1 through 
June 30.
Full Time Equivalent (FTE)
Conversion of a position to full-time equivalent.  For 
example, one person working half time would count as 0.50 
FTE; one person working full time would count as 1.00 FTE.
Fund
A separate, independent accounting entity used to set forth 
the financial position of operations related to the specific 
purpose for which the fund was created.  Examples of funds 
used in the City of San Mateo are the General Fund, Capital 
Projects Fund, and Sewer Fund.
Fund Balance
The total dollars remaining in a fund after current 
expenditures for operations and capital improvements are 
subtracted.
General Fund
The City’s principal operating fund, which is supported by 
general taxes and fees and which can be used for any legal 
governmental purpose.
208
952 of 1111

--- page 953 ---
Grant
A contribution by a government or other organization to 
support a particular function or project.  Grants may be 
classified as either categorical or block, depending upon 
the amount of discretion allowed the recipient.
Interdepartmental Charges and Credits
A mechanism through which one program may bill another 
program (charges) and be reimbursed (credits) for the cost 
of various services provided.  Interdepartmental charges 
and credits are based on the actual, direct costs of the 
service provided.  They function as cost allocation tools, 
allowing the financial reports to more accurately reflect the 
real cost of individual programs.
Interfund Transfers
The movement of money from one fund to another to cover 
certain costs.
Internal Service Fund
A fund which is used to finance and account for goods and/
or services provided by one City department to other City 
departments on a cost-reimbursement basis.
Non-departmental
Program costs that do not relate to any one particular 
department, but represent costs of a general, City-wide 
nature.
Non-recurring Costs
One-time activities for which the expenditure should be 
budgeted only in the fiscal year in which the activity is 
undertaken.
Operating Budget
Annual appropriation of funds to support ongoing program 
costs, including employee services, maintenance, supplies, 
and equipment.
Ordinance
A formal legislative enactment by the City Council, 
which has the full force and effect of law within the City 
boundaries unless it is in conflict with any higher form of 
law, such as a state statute or constitutional provision.
Program
An activity or group of activities which is an operational 
subunit of a department and is directed toward providing 
a particular service or support function.  Each City 
department may be responsible for a number of programs.
Proprietary Fund
A term also used to describe funds that are accounted for 
on a “flow of economic resources” measurement basis and 
on a full accrual accounting basis.  Enterprise funds and 
internal service funds are classified as proprietary funds.
Reserve
Funds set aside for specific purposes.
Resolution
A special order by the City Council which requires less 
legal formality than an ordinance in terms of public notice 
prior to approval.
Resources
Total amount available for appropriation, including 
estimated revenues, beginning fund balances, and fund 
transfers.
Revenue
Income received during the fiscal year from taxes, fees, 
permits, franchises, interest, intergovernmental, and other 
sources.
Special Revenue Fund
A fund used to account for revenue sources that are 
restricted by law or administrative action to expenditures 
for specified purposes.
Structural Deficit
The permanent financial gap that results when ongoing 
revenues do not match or keep pace with ongoing 
expenditures.
Glossary
209
953 of 1111

--- page 954 ---
Proposed 
2025-26 Budget 
&
2025-30 Capital 
Improvement Plan
June 16, 2025
1
954 of 1111

--- page 955 ---
Budget Timeline
Budget 
Kickoff
February 18
2024-25 Mid-Year 
Updates
April 7
General Fund Reserve 
Policy Study Session
April 21
Budget Preview
June 2
Proposed Budget
1st Public Hearing
June 16
Budget Adoption 
2nd Public Hearing
2
January 2025
February 2025
April 2025
June 2025
955 of 1111

--- page 956 ---
FY 2025-26 Citywide Budget (in millions)
3
Proposed FY 2025-26
Citywide Budget
$333.5 million
956 of 1111

--- page 957 ---
General Fund 
FY 2025-26 Proposed Budget - Expenditures
4
FY 2025-26
Proposed Budget
General Fund Expenditures
$187.7 million
35%
21%
13%
5%
5%
1%
10%
3%
7%
Police
Fire
Recreation and Parks
 Library
Public Works
Community Dev
General Admin
Non-Departmental
Transfers Out
957 of 1111

--- page 958 ---
General Fund 
FY 2025-26 Proposed Budget - Revenues
5
FY 2025-26 
Proposed Budget
General Fund Revenues
$175.8 million
958 of 1111

--- page 959 ---
General Fund 
FY 2025-26 Proposed Budget
6
General Fund (in millions)
 2024-25
Adopted 
Budget 
 2025-26
Original 
Proposed 
Budget 
 2025-26
Revised 
Proposed 
Budget 
 FY 25 vs. FY26 
Change in $ 
 FY 25 vs. FY26 
Change in % 
Total Revenues 
A
169.9
$         
172.5
$         
175.8
$         
5.9
$                  
3.5%
Expenditures:
Personnel Costs
79.7
             
80.7
             
80.7
             
1.0
                     
1.3%
Pension Unfunded Liability (UAL)
13.0
             
13.6
             
13.6
             
0.6
                     
4.6%
Other Operating Expenditures
40.1
             
42.3
             
42.3
             
2.2
                     
5.5%
SMC Fire and Legacy Costs
36.1
             
38.8
             
38.8
             
2.7
                     
7.5%
Total Operating Expenditures
B
168.9
           
175.4
           
175.4
           
6.5
                     
3.8%
Transfer for Debt Service 
C
3.0
               
3.0
               
3.0
               
-
                    
0.0%
Transfer to Other Funds
D
0.4
               
0.4
               
0.4
               
-
                    
0.0%
Surplus / (Deficit) before Contribution to CIP
E = A - (B+C+D)
(2.4)
              
(6.3)
              
(3.0)
              
(0.6)
                   
Less: Transfer to Capital Projects Fund
F
8.1
               
8.9
               
8.9
               
0.8
                     
9.9%
Surplus / (Deficit)
G = E - F
(10.5)
$          
(15.2)
$          
(11.9)
$          
(1.4)
$                 
959 of 1111

--- page 960 ---
General Fund Reserves
7
GENERAL FUND (in millions)
2024-25 
YEAR-END
PROJECTION
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
117.9
$         
114.8
$      
Total Revenues 
176.6
            
175.8
        
Total Expenditures, including transfers 
(179.7)
          
(187.8)
       
Net Change to Fund Balanc - surplus / (deficit)
(3.10)
             
(12.00)
       
Ending Fund Balance
114.8
$         
102.8
$      
     Transfer to Capital Investment Reserve
(25.0)
         
Ending Fund Balance- estimated
77.8
$        
960 of 1111

--- page 961 ---
8
FY 2025-26 Proposed Capital Budget
and
Five-Year Capital Improvement Plan (CIP)
961 of 1111

--- page 962 ---
FY 2025-26 Proposed Capital Budget 
and Five-Year CIP
The following is a breakdown of CIP expenses by program areas:
9
CAPITAL PROJECTS 
2025-26 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
2026-27 
PLAN 
2027-28 
 PLAN 
2028-29 
 PLAN 
2029-30 
PLAN 
5-Year
TOTAL
Bikeway/Pedestrian 
$       4,098,820 
 $      5,563,636 
 $      1,575,000 
 $          865,000 
 $          865,000 
$    12,967,456
Bridges 
             75,000  
              75,000  
              75,000  
                        -   
                        -   
        225,000
Facilities 
       5,878,742  
        4,310,000 
        3,360,000 
        4,010,000 
        6,575,000 
  24,133,742
Parks 
      6,391,822  
        2,695,000 
        6,345,000 
        1,845,000 
        2,625,000 
   19,901,822
Sanitary Sewer and 
Wastewater 
Management 
     29,089,000  
      28,996,805 
      37,544,930 
      25,384,035 
      31,311,652 
  152,326,422
Stormwater 
           250,000  
       1,050,000  
            700,000  
            700,000  
            700,000  
        3,400,000
Street Lights 
           700,000  
       1,000,000  
                        -   
                        -   
                        -   
        1,700,000
Streets 
       9,240,473  
        8,818,000 
        9,003,000 
        8,203,000 
        8,203,000 
     43,467,473
Traffic 
       1,325,000  
            550,000  
            350,000  
        1,050,000 
            350,000  
 3,625,000
Other City Capital 
Projects 
      4,492,000  
        1,002,000 
            927,000  
            927,000  
           927,000  
     8,275,000
Total  
$    61,540,856 
 $   54,060,441 
 $   59,879,930 
 $   42,984,035 
 $   51,556,652 
 $270,021,914
962 of 1111

--- page 963 ---
City Council Actions
10
Adopt resolutions to approve 
• Fiscal Year 2025-26 Operating and Capital Budgets;
• Fiscal Year 2025-26 Gann Appropriations Limit;
• Fiscal Years 2025-30 Capital Improvement Program; and
• $25 million initial contribution to the Capital Investment Reserve. 
963 of 1111

--- page 964 ---
Thank you
Karen Huang
Finance Director
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7110
11
964 of 1111

--- page 965 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  40
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 25-9958
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee Increase for Fiscal Year 2025-26 — Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Conduct a public hearing and adopt a Resolution to increase the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee by 2.4 
percent to account for the annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) increase.  
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo operates and maintains a stormwater system that provides vital services to protect neighborhoods 
from flooding and safeguard local waterways from pollution. This system comprises complex infrastructure, including 
surface drains, underground pipes and conduits, pump stations, creeks and channels, and the Marina Lagoon. 
Improvements are needed to address flood control capacity limitations, aging infrastructure, enhanced operations and 
maintenance, and compliance with state and federal mandates to reduce pollutants in stormwater runoff. 
The City’s stormwater system requires long-overdue upgrades to improve flood control and replace aging infrastructure. 
Prior to 2024, the system lacked a dedicated funding source, and available funds were insufficient to adequately maintain 
and upgrade the drainage system.
On July 17, 2023, the City Council approved and adopted the Stormwater Fee Report, which outlines the financial 
requirements for implementing citywide stormwater improvements. At that meeting, the Council directed staff to initiate 
a Proposition 218 process to establish a new property-related fee. On January 16, 2024, following a two-month balloting 
process, the City Council certified the results of the vote and ordered the levying of the Community Flood and Storm 
Protection Fee (Stormwater Fee) for Fiscal Year 2024–25.
Beginning in Fiscal Year 2025–26 and for all future years, the Stormwater Fee is subject to an annual adjustment based on 
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the San Francisco Bay Area, as of each December, with a 
maximum allowable increase of 3 percent. The CPI increase from December was 2.4 percent. Furthermore, any portion of 
the CPI above 3 percent is to be reserved as “Unused CPI” and may be applied in future years when the CPI is less than 3 
percent. Since the CPI increase this year was below the cap, no Unused CPI will be banked. Pursuant to California Health & 
Safety Code Section 5473.1, the City Council must hold a public hearing before approving this annual adjustment. 
The following table shows the proposed changes in monthly fees for Fiscal Year 2025-26.
Land Use Category
Monthly Fee 
Residential Cost (per parcel)
FY 24/25
FY 25/26
Small
Under 0.11 acre
5.55
5.68
965 of 1111

--- page 966 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Medium
0.11 to 0.17 acre
8.00
8.19
Large 
0.18 to 0.23 acre
9.92
10.16
Extra Large
Over 0.23 acre
11.08
11.35
Condominium
1 Level acre
5.35
5.48
Condominium
2+ Levels acre
2.71
2.78
Non-Residental (per acre)
FY 24/25
FY 25/26
Commercial / Industrial
100.50
102.91
Office / Apartment / Institutional
81.82
83.78
Institutional w/Field
71.24
72.95
Park
5.53
5.66
Vacant (developed)
5.53
5.66
Open Space / Agricultural
not charged
Funds from the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee for the initial FY 2024–25 have been allocated to support 
operations and maintenance staff in the ongoing cleaning of storm catch basins, as well as critical capital improvements 
for minor storm drain “hotspot” repairs at several locations identified by engineering and operations staff.
Future revenues from this fee will continue to support these functions, along with major capital improvements to be 
identified in the upcoming Storm Drain Master Plan update and Marina Lagoon dredging projects. Staff will present the 
updated Master Plan to the City Council later this year for review of the proposed capital improvements.
Staff recommends that the City Council adopt the attached Resolution to increase the Community Flood and Storm 
Protection Fee by 2.4 percent for all parcels citywide.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Revenues from Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee for Fiscal Year 2024-25, after minor corrections to individual 
parcels, totaled $3,903,989.57. The proposed CPI increase of 2.4 percent will increase anticipated Fiscal Year 2025-26 
revenue in the Storm Fund by approximately $93,700, for an estimated total of $3,997,700.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council action adopting a Resolution to establish the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee rate for Fiscal Year 
2025-26 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government funding mechanism or other government 
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
Pursuant To Government Code Section 6066, notice of the public hearing was published twice in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal on May 30, 2025, and June 6, 2025, respectively. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Engineering Manager
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
966 of 1111

--- page 967 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2025
ADOPTING INCREASES TO COMMUNITY FLOOD AND STORM PROTECTION FEE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2025-26
WHEREAS, the City Council reviews the fees for the City of San Mateo’s (City) Community Flood and 
Storm Protection Fee (hereafter “Stormwater Fee”); and
WHEREAS, the City operates and maintains a stormwater system that provides vital services to protect 
neighborhoods from flooding and safeguard local waterways from pollution; and
WHEREAS, the City’s stormwater system requires long-overdue upgrades, and, prior to 2024, the system 
lacked a dedicated funding source; and
WHEREAS, on January 16, 2024, the City Council certified the results of the vote and ordered the levying 
of the Community Flood and Storm Protection Fee (Stormwater Fee) for Fiscal Year 2024–25; and
WHEREAS, for Fiscal Year 2025–26, the Stormwater Fee is subject to an annual adjustment based on the 
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the San Francisco Bay Area, as of each December, 
with a maximum allowable increase of 3%; and
WHEREAS, for Fiscal Year 2025–26, the CPI increase from December was 2.4%.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
Adoption of the Stormwater Fee rate for Fiscal Year 2025-26 is not a project subject to CEQA, 
because it consists of a government funding mechanism or other government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
The City Council hereby approves and adopts the Stormwater Fee Rate for Fiscal Year 2025-26, 
inclusive of the CPI increase of 2.4%, as follows:
Land Use Category
Monthly Fee 
Residential Cost (per parcel)
FY 
24/25
FY 25/26
Small
Under 0.11 acre
5.55
5.68
Medium
0.11 to 0.17 acre
8.00
8.19
Large 
0.18 to 0.23 acre
9.92
10.16
Extra Large
Over 0.23 acre
11.08
11.35
Condominium
1 Level acre
5.35
5.48
Condominium
2+ Levels acre
2.71
2.78
967 of 1111

--- page 968 ---
Non-Residental (per acre)
FY 
24/25
FY 25/26
Commercial / Industrial
100.50
102.91
Office / Apartment / Institutional
81.82
83.78
Institutional w/Field
71.24
72.95
Park
5.53
5.66
Vacant (developed)
5.53
5.66
Open Space / Agricultural
not charged
968 of 1111

--- page 969 ---
Proposed Fee Increase for Fiscal 
Year 2025-26
June 16, 2025
1
Community Storm Flood and 
Protection Fee
Presented By: Public Works – Jimmy Vo, Engineering 
Manager
969 of 1111

--- page 970 ---
City Council to review and adopt the proposed fee 
increases for the Community Storm Flood and 
Protection Fee for Fiscal Year 2025-26.
2
Purpose
970 of 1111

--- page 971 ---
3
Background
• City Council adopted the new Stormwater Fee on January 16, 
2024
• Staff to bring future annual adjustments to City Council for 
approval
• Annual adjustments are based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) 
for the Bay Area with an annual cap of 3%*
• For the upcoming Fiscal Year, the CPI will be 2.4%
971 of 1111

--- page 972 ---
4
Proposed Fee Increases
Land Use Category
Monthly Fee 
Residential Cost (per parcel)
FY 24/25
FY 25/26
Small
Under 0.11 acre
5.55
5.68
Medium
0.11 to 0.17 acre
8.00
8.19
Large 
0.18 to 0.23 acre
9.92
10.16
Extra Large
Over 0.23 acre
11.08
11.35
Condominium
1 Level 
5.35
5.48
Condominium
2+ Levels 
2.71
2.78
Non-Residential (per acre)
FY 24/25
FY 25/26
Commercial / Industrial
100.50
102.91
Office / Apartment / Institutional
81.82
83.78
Institutional w/Field
71.24
72.95
Park
5.53
5.66
Vacant (developed)
5.53
5.66
Open Space / Agricultural
not charged
972 of 1111

--- page 973 ---
5
Projected Revenue Estimates
• Projected revenue for Fiscal Year 24-25 was about $4.05M
• Actual revenue for Fiscal Year 24-25 was about $3.90M
• With the 2.4% increase, projected revenue for Fiscal Year 25-26 
will be approximately $4.00M
973 of 1111

--- page 974 ---
City Council to review and adopt the proposed fee 
increases for the Community Storm Flood and 
Protection Fee for Fiscal Year 2025-26.
6
Purpose
974 of 1111

--- page 975 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  41
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10024
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 16, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy — Policy Feedback
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the "Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy" project and provide direction 
on the policy pathways for inclusion in the final Sustainable Building Strategy.
BACKGROUND:
Building energy use represents 38 percent of communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo. Building 
electrification refers to the transition from gas equipment to electric equipment for space and water heating, clothes 
drying, cooking, and more. While natural gas is a fossil fuel, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides carbon-free electricity 
communitywide. Electrifying existing buildings is critical to reducing communitywide greenhouse gas emissions and is a key 
strategy in attaining the objectives contained in City’s adopted Climate Action Plan. To continue to advance existing 
building electrification beyond reach codes and to meet the City Council decarbonization priority, City staff began working 
with Rincon Consultants to develop the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainability Building Strategy. This project aims to create an 
actionable roadmap with steps for the City of San Mateo to electrify buildings based on effectiveness and equity criteria, 
cost-effectiveness, best available science and data, and community feedback. The project team completed a building 
inventory and market segmentation analysis that was presented at the September 13, 2023, Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission meeting. After completing Phase I of community engagement, the project culminated in the 
identification of five policy pathways that were presented at the January 16, 2024, City Council meeting. City Council 
directed the project team to conduct community engagement on all five policy pathways to determine overall feasibility 
and support from the community. This report provides an overview of the project, analysis of the five policy pathways that 
will be considered by City Council and a summary of project community engagement.
Building Electrification Background
Electrification benefits include the added health benefit of reducing gas use in the home. Commonly used appliances that 
burn gas, including stoves, heating systems, and water heaters, emit hazardous air pollutants inside a home when 
improperly ventilated, or when leaks occur. These can include benzene, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, 
formaldehyde, particulate matter and other harmful pollutants that increase the risk of respiratory disease such as 
asthma. Additionally, gas infrastructure carries an inherent safety risk due to the volatile nature of gas, including risk of 
methane leakage, damage during earthquakes, accidental explosions, or fires. 
Building electrification is also an essential approach to driving the state of California toward its ambitious climate goal of 
carbon neutrality by 2045. Additionally, at the regional level the Bay Area Air District (BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in 
the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning 
the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state starting in 2030. 
975 of 1111

--- page 976 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
As part of the FY 2022-2023 goal setting session, the City Council directed staff to present to them policy options to 
decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030. The City’s Climate Action Plan also 
identifies electrifying existing buildings as a key strategy to reduce communitywide greenhouse gas emissions. The City has 
shown great leadership in advancing building electrification through the adoption of local amendments to the state building 
code also known as reach codes. In 2020, the City Council adopted a reach code requiring all new residential and office 
buildings be all-electric starting on January 1, 2021. In 2022, the City Council adopted a reach code that expanded the all-
electric requirement to all new buildings and requiring electric-readiness and electric appliances for specific home remodels 
that started on January 1, 2023. In 2024, due to a federal court decision, the City suspended the enforcement of its reach 
codes that prohibit the installation of new gas infrastructure. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in California Restaurant 
Association v. City of Berkeley determined that a local ordinance that generally prohibited the installation of natural gas 
infrastructure was preempted by federal law, namely the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA). In January 2025, the 
San Mateo City Council adopted an Energy Performance Reach Code for new construction that requires energy compliance 
margins for new buildings and repealed the unenforceable all-electric requirement.
Policy Pathways
The project team gathered feedback on five existing building electrification policy pathways. These policy pathways are 
meant to be considered as a menu of options to achieve the City’s climate goals, while considering implementation and 
cost challenges for property owners across the City. Most local governments considering a building decarbonization 
strategy combine multiple strategies together to produce the most comprehensive, and equitable policy result. The 
following provides a high-level summary of the policy pathways. The Policy Pathways Analysis attachment provides 
detailed discussion of each policy pathway including advantages and challenges of policy implementation, greenhouse gas 
emission reduction impact, cost effectiveness and equity considerations.
1.
Business as usual: The City could continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus on 
outreach and incentives. In the past, the City adopted local building code amendments to require more 
sustainable new construction than the State code. This approach has a limited impact because new 
construction accounts for a fraction of San Mateo’s development, however, this approach is already in place 
and thus received community support to date. There are no policy-related additional costs to building owners 
unless they voluntarily decide to electrify. A Zero NOx new construction approach would save an estimated 
1,770 MT CO2e per year by 2030 while a performance approach would save 20 MT CO2e per year by 2030.
 
2.
Reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to 
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations. New reach codes would vary depending on the 
updated State codes. One example of a reach code during renovations is requiring the installation of a heat 
pump when an air conditioner is installed. Reach codes during renovations help encourage electrification at an 
opportune time when a property owner is already considering home improvements. The upfront costs of 
electrification improvements can vary depending on the project and unique circumstances of your home. Cost-
effectiveness studies must be completed to validate any adopted reach codes. Past studies have shown on-bill 
savings over time make electric equipment upgrades cost-effective compared to gas equipment replacements. 
Two-Way AC reach code would reduce emissions by 2,200 MT CO2e per year by 2030, while a Flex Path reach 
code would reduce emissions by approximately 730 MT CO2e per year by 2030.
 
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements: The Bay Area Air District 
(BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water 
heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. A local ordinance ahead of 
these milestones would require the replacement of gas appliances with zero NOx versions when they fail or 
are voluntarily upgraded. This policy would have the most significant greenhouse gas emission reductions of 
the five policy pathways with an estimated 9,700 MTCO2e per year by 2030.
976 of 1111

--- page 977 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
4.
Commercial Building Performance Standards: This pathway would establish a new set of policy standards for 
commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying commercial buildings 
as a phased approach. This is a well-established policy mechanism that has been adopted by many local 
governments across the country. This approach can be customizable and lead to incremental reductions in 
energy use but not necessarily electrification. The development of such a local program would necessitate new 
staff time. Emissions reductions will likely not occur before 2030 due to the phased nature of the program. 
Commercial buildings account for 16 percent of communitywide emissions (83,660 MTCO2e) and thus 
represent an important opportunity for GHG reduction.
5.
Municipal Electric First Policy: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government renovations to go 
electric first. The policy ensures financial, and feasibility data is being collected for municipal facilities that will 
allow the City to compare costs to electrify versus replacing with gas equipment. This policy has a limited reach 
as it only applies to municipal buildings. It demonstrates City leadership on hard-to-electrify existing buildings 
that mirror the commercial sector. This policy is estimated to reduce emissions 146 MT CO2e by 2030.
Community Engagement
The project team conducted two phases of project outreach. The first phase of community engagement focused on 
educating the community about the costs and benefits of building electrification and about the project’s general goals. 
Outreach also focused on gathering feedback on the equity and effectiveness criteria the project team would use to 
evaluate policy pathways. The top concerns were costs, power outages and grid resilience, and the growth of the grid to 
accommodate future electric buildings. The top values were how the climate crisis is a priority issue, the need for the City 
to act now, and the availability of electric equipment incentives and rebates. 
 
The second phase of community engagement aimed to get specific feedback on the five policy pathways as directed by 
City Council in January 2024. The project team conducted presentations at a variety of in-person and virtual community 
meetings, City Commission meetings, engaged with commercial property owners and developers, and conducted an online 
survey. Throughout both phases of engagement, the project team heard from individuals with strong opinions on building 
electrification policy. While many community members continue to be highly supportive of local action, others are firmly 
opposed to additional local policy. Throughout the second phase of community engagement, the project team provided 9 
presentations and reached over 150 people through in-person and virtual events. In addition, over 200 people responded 
to the online feedback survey and staff maintains a list of over 200 emails of community members and stakeholders 
interested in this project. 
At the May 14, 2025, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting, the project team presented the five policy 
pathways, along with community feedback obtained up until that point in time, and commissioners provided feedback. 
Commissioners supported policy pathways 1, 2, 4 and 5 to advance existing building decarbonization and meet climate 
goals. Commissioners noted the importance of funding to help homeowners with the transition, suggested the City help 
provide funding and emphasized the importance of PCE’s Loan program. Commissioners also recommended the 
incorporation of a hardship exemption into potential ordinance language to address cases that are hard-to-electrify. Two 
commissioners expressed interest in Option 3 Zero NOx standards ahead of the Bay Area Air District but noted that both 
the timeline for this policy and enforcement would be very challenging. 
The project team also gathered feedback from the Senior Advisory Commission on May 12, 2025, and the Community 
Relations Commission on May 21, 2025, which is charged with providing the City’s DEI lens. The Senior Advisory 
Commissioners voiced concerns about the upfront costs of electrification but there was some consensus and support over 
the intent of building decarbonization and of Options 4 and 5. The Community Relations Commission discussed various 
ways to improve marketing to various community groups and emphasized the importance of equitable transition in 
existing building decarbonization. The Community Relations Commission unanimously supported all five policy pathways.
In summary, the project team found: 
977 of 1111

--- page 978 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Option 1 Reach Codes for New Construction (Business as Usual), Option 4 Commercial Building Performance 
Standards and Option 5 Municipal Electric First Policy received the most community support. 
•
Option 3 Zero NOx Standards ahead of the Bay Area Air District, received the least amount of community support. 
•
Option 2 Reach Codes for Renovations received a mix of support and opposition. 
Detailed community feedback and survey results for each project phase are provided in the Community Engagement 
Summary attachment. Detailed community feedback as related to each policy pathway is provided in the Policy Pathways 
Analysis attachment.
Next Steps
Staff seeks City Council direction on which of the five policy pathways to include in the final “Electrify San Mateo: 
Sustainable Building Strategy.” Specifically, does the Council recommend inclusion of:
•
Option 1 Reach Codes for New Construction (Business as Usual) —most strongly supported,
•
Option 2 Reach Codes for Renovations—mix of support and opposition,
•
Option 3 Zero NOx Standards ahead of the Bay Area Air District—not well supported,
•
Option 4 Commercial Building Performance Standards—most strongly supported, or
•
Option 5 Municipal Electric First Policy—most strongly supported.
The City Council can recommend inclusion of a subset of policy pathways or recommend inclusion of all policy pathways in 
the Sustainable Building Strategy. After City Council provides direction, the project team will compile the policy pathways 
into a final document that will incorporate the project work completed to date including building and market 
segmentation analysis and electrification cost analysis. The project team aims to bring the final document for adoption at 
an upcoming City Council meeting, which could be July 28, 2025, depending on the options selected.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The development of the "Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy" was funded by an appropriation from the 
available fund balance in the Advance Planning Fund (Fund 225) and had no impact on the City's General Fund. 
The different policy pathways presented in this report have varying budget impacts for implementation. The 
implementation of reach codes (Options 1 and 2) is integrated within existing City processes for planning application, plan 
check and building permit review. The enforcement of Option 3 would also be integrated within City’s permit issuance 
process. The implementation of Option 4 would be the most resource-intensive of the five policy pathways and would 
require staff time for the development of an ordinance and to staff the new program moving forward. The cost impacts of 
Option 5 would vary depending on the facility equipment replacement needs; technical assistance programs, grants and 
rebates are available to support municipal electrification. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
Att 2 – Policy Pathways Analysis
Att 3 – Community Engagement Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007 
978 of 1111

--- page 979 ---
From:
ahouye
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Re: Reminder: Electrify San Mateo: Upcoming Community Meetings
Date:
Tuesday, May 27, 2025 11:38:29 PM
Attachments:
City of San Mateo Electrification Review 05272025.pdf
image003.png
Greetings Andrea,
See attached file for feedback/comments concerning numerous initiatives related to
electrification of existing buildings.
It is a long read, so hopefully it is useful and should address most concerns for
affected parties.
Let me know if it was useful to spend my time on.
Thanks, Alan
On Tuesday, May 13, 2025 at 02:00:11 PM PDT, Andrea Chow <achow@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Reminder! Upcoming community meetings for Electrify San Mateo:
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy.
Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively scheduled for June 16, 2025. Please see
the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and information posted roughly one week before the
Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
979 of 1111

--- page 980 ---
From: Andrea Chow 
Sent: Monday, April 28, 2025 2:14 PM
Subject: Electrify San Mateo: Three Upcoming Community Meetings
 
Hello,
 
Switching from natural gas to carbon-free electric equipment in our homes and buildings is critical to
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our community. Gas appliances release air pollutants and
studies have shown that exposure to these pollutants pose significant health risks. In addition to
advancing our climate goals, electrification eliminates these risks and can provide a safer and healthier
environment. The Electrify San Mateo project team will present existing building electrification policy
pathways at three upcoming City Commission meetings:
May 12: Senior Advisory Commission
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy.
Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively scheduled for June 2025. Please see
the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and information posted roughly one week before the
Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that
is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified
that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have
received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-
mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
980 of 1111

--- page 981 ---
1
Report Review: 
 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy  
Project Update - May Evaluation 
 
 
Summary: 
 
This review is provided in the form of a due diligence evaluation and consumer protection for 
adopting full electrification to existing structures in the City of San Mateo.  There appears to be 
numerous deficiencies in information and consumer safeguards addressed.  No indication that a 
particular initiative that meets or exceeds the BAAD initiatives will make a significant difference to 
the local micro-climate.  The primary consumer concerns appear to be affordability, achievability, 
and alternatives.  There is a factor of unintended consequences.  The escalating electricity and 
gas rates in a monopoly business environment creates a paradox of energy conservation versus 
energy consumption.  The expectation is whatever is determined will be voted upon as it affects 
existing structures/property, unavoidable impact to its owners, and consequences to its 
occupants; therefore, a highly convincing justification and well-devised plan of implementation is 
required.  Overall, a mix of the options available may have the greatest success for maximum 
effectiveness under affordable conditions.  
 
 
Review Objective:  
 
To provide an objective recommendation for an electrification and climate change abatement 
policy that may have the greatest level of success for adoption.  Progression to a goal is 
considered superior to complete abandonment.  
 
 
Background Review:  
 
This review is based upon the following information provided: 
 
"Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy - Feedback, May 12, 2025" 
"Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy - Feedback, May 14, 2025" 
"Climate Action Plan - Annual Progress Report - May 14, 2025"  
"Electrify San Mateo: Community Relations - Feedback, May 21, 2025" 
 
There are established bans for the sale of new gas water heaters (2027) and new gas furnaces 
(2029) with near-term deadlines.  If these near-term deadlines are maintained, this study may be 
an academic thought experiment too late for some affected parties.  The most significant scenario  
example is a fixed income living condition that must replace a failed gas water heater in 2027 with 
insufficient amperage for an equivalent electric water heater.  In this case, the lack of situational 
awareness and contingency planning for the impact of the ban is disturbing at the very least.  
 
 
Project Overall Review: 
 
There are five long-standing options to review in whole, in part, or in some combination: 
1. Business as usual. 
2. New reach codes for renovations. 
3. Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements. 
4. Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings. 
5. Electric first policy for City facilities. 
 
 
981 of 1111

--- page 982 ---
2
Information/Knowledge Review:  
 
The Rincon Consultants Inc. report is the most objective information available. 
 
The community concerns were identified as (per page 3): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These are unquestionably valid concerns that need to be addressed:  Upfront costs of electrical 
equipment may be mitigated with consideration for flexible policies to choose electrification or 
other cost-effective strategies.  On-bill or operational costs may be mitigated by cooperation with 
Peninsula Clean Energy.  Installation and electrical infrastructure implementation challenges may 
be mitigated by flexible compliance paths.  Grid reliability and resilience is assuming and planning 
for a 27% increase in demand by 2035. 
 
The May 14, 2025, "Electrify San Mateo: Existing Building Electrification Pathways Analysis, 
Policy Analysis (pages 7 through 23) was vague and had some logic inconsistencies, so it was 
informative to some extent for background purposes.  However, there is an apparent difference of 
how a commercial building is treated compared to a residential property.  The Phased approach 
for commercial buildings with much more consideration taken versus a residential structure that is 
faced with the gas ban deadlines is disturbingly different and obvious preferential treatment.  
 
The May 14, 2025, "Summary of Community Engagement for Electrify San Mateo" was far more 
useful to review.             
 
Affordability: 
 
The following surveys were interesting, but may lead to wrong conclusions.  There should be an 
awareness of the conditions "house poor" or "rent poor" that is not taken into account. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
982 of 1111

--- page 983 ---
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What would be more useful is the disposable funds available, which would be free discretionary 
cash per month and discretionary reserve funds.  The most troubling question is how large is the 
population in the City of San Mateo that can endure a significant financial impact aggravated by 
escalating energy costs, which have no foreseeable reason to significantly decline in part or in 
total due to the monopoly utility profit structure.   
 
The following are some items have not been addressed to determine what costs may be directly 
or indirectly incurred and to prevent predatory pricing for some items: 
1.  Increased property tax and/or local tax to support city electrification improvements? 
2.  Increased utility rate charge for a higher amperage grid infrastructure to support the City? 
3.  Fixed or capped charge schedule for utility-provided services? 
4.  Fixed or capped charge schedule for City fees? 
5.  Fixed or capped charge schedule for electrical amperage service upgrades?  
6.  Are costs and rebates dependent upon the whims of the state government? 
 
Without all this information, it is very difficult to determine if there is sufficient information for 
property owners to make financially-sound decisions.  The state legislative consideration of AB 
942 for solar is a significant blow to trust in a state government agreement. 
 
The highly volatile economic and product availability conditions that may persist for a number of 
years is a major factor in consideration as well as the sense of declining support nationally and 
the troubled state financial conditions.  The current observation is a negative environment of 
uncertain employment, higher inflation, and unfavorable outlook for climate change support. 
 
 
Achievability:    
 
There are practical considerations that have not been clearly addressed.  Some are vague and 
others have no sound explanation. 
 
For grid reliability, complete dependence on electricity for life-supporting space heating, and 
heated water is highly suspect.  An event similar to the February 2021 Great Texas Freeze must 
be avoided, especially for the at-risk population.  No detailed study has been presented as to how 
the 27% electricity increase may be sufficient.  It is logically hard to believe the two highest 
energy demand devices in a residence can be compensated by a 27% energy increase, 
especially during the winter months.  If out-of-state and/or in-state gas-fired generators are used 
983 of 1111

--- page 984 ---
4
to supplement the 27%, then this makes sense, but does create a hypocritical compromise.  Solar 
with a battery is less attractive due to the declining return on investment unless there is unreliable 
grid power, and is a financially presumptuous/arrogant comment.  A low NOx gas water heater 
and low NOx gas space heating may be a more valid alternative for those resourceful to use a 
backup battery/portable power station during a grid power loss. 
 
For supply issues, equipment, contractor, and city services availability are concerns.  The cost 
and availability of electrical hardware may be uncertain to schedule work with the current trade 
turmoil.  If a utility transformer is need for the higher amperage demand, this creates greater 
uncertainty.  Contractor availability to meet a particular schedule is an uncertainty by experience.  
Timely City and utility services are a further complication as it is highly uncertain if more support 
staff will be hired.  Equipment to provide alternative electrical energy while grid electricity is 
disconnected may be problematic as well as the negative impact to the resident occupants. 
 
Alternatives: 
 
There are various alternatives of various effectiveness compared to full electrification with positive 
aspects.  These are largely to favor renters to reduce incremental rent increases and the 
low/fixed income with restricted funding.   
1. Low NOx gas water heater and gas space heater. 
2. New or higher-effective insulation. 
3. Higher efficiency windows. 
4. Higher efficiency appliances. 
5. High capacity air exhaust (gas and by-products when cooking).   
 
There is an energy conservation versus energy consumption paradox in terms of energy rate 
escalation in a monopoly environment.  Ironically, it may be better to consume more energy for 
the utility to gain greater revenue and achieve the desired profitability at the existing rate.  Energy 
conservation may drive up rates to meet profitability targets.  Therefore, with other factors beyond 
consideration, these may not necessarily keep energy rates at a reasonable/affordable level.  In 
addition, what an affordable utility rate is has not been defined or even asked. 
 
Community Feedback: 
 
The following can be classified based upon some implied assumptions from the community 
feedback: 
1. Implemented electrification due to available assets. 
2. Implemented electrification with dissatisfaction concerns. 
3. Concern for one-time and on-going costs. 
4. Concern for increased rental/leasing costs to tenants. 
 
There does not appear to be definitive information to address the concerns. 
 
Unintended Consequences:  
 
These are "what if" scenarios/conditions that should be in consideration to mitigate risk as a few 
examples of consequences. 
 
For the property owner of an aging multi-family building, it may be more financially attractive to do 
a teardown and build a new structure under reach codes for renovations.  For example, it may 
have more a more efficient electrical space heating design, more electrical outlets, better 
insulation, energy-efficient windows, soundproofing, improved security, lower maintenance, and 
much more onsite parking for overcrowded streets.  Therefore, this would change the affordability 
of the residences and reduce the amount of available housing for an extended period of time, but 
much more attractive option for tenants. 
 
984 of 1111

--- page 985 ---
5
A developer/builder may avoid the City of San Mateo to repurpose an existing structure to meet a 
specified target market price, especially for affordable housing or affordable leased space for 
businesses under reach codes for renovations.  It may be more profitable for the target market 
price to build to lesser codes elsewhere.  Therefore, this may result in less affordable housing or 
business space.    
 
There may be a question of trust in general due to the declining benefit of solar and the pending, 
solar contract-breaking AB 942.  It now appears residential solar is a property owner-financed 
energy generating infrastructure expense and a solar battery that may be seen as a fire hazard. 
An electrification-accelerating set of reach codes appears highly suspicious, especially if the 
Federal and/or State initiative goals may be relaxed due to economic or political conditions.  The 
property owners may once again be spending funds under false expectations and those funds 
should have been held in reserve to pay for well-established, escalating energy costs in a 
monopoly environment.  Therefore, a convincing commitment to the initiatives is required. 
 
 
Recommended Policy: 
 
The following is the recommend policy for the greatest level of success to achieve the various 
objectives based upon the information provided: 
 
1. Electric first policy for City facilities:  This must be done or this would be complete hypocrisy.  
    The expectation certain structures may be excluded for historical reasons.  This would 
    establish the base impact to the city electrical grid and any infrastructure costs resulting in  
    utility rate and/or local tax increases.  No further discussion is required. 
 
2. Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings:  There is a proposed, relaxed 
    implementation phased plan.  At-risk conditions must have back-up contingency system.  A low 
    interest rate loan for full electrical would be an added incentive.  With the cost of the renovation 
    being a depreciated expense and the low interest rate loan, these should be sufficient to have  
    a high adoption rate.  This should establish if there is an impact to the city electrical grid and  
    any infrastructure costs resulting in utility rate and/or local tax increases.     
 
3. Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements:  
    Completely invalid for consideration.  There is insufficient information for a consumer to make 
    an informed decision nor sufficient time to implement the requirement under certain conditions.     
 
4. New reach codes for renovations:  Full electrification-ready condition could be required for a 
    property in a vacant condition (between property owners) or major renovations in a vacant 
    condition.  Full electrification conversion is at the discretion of the property owner, especially if 
    there is no plan to change existing appliances.  Full electrification should not significantly 
    impact housing affordability for specific housing markets.  Low interest loans for the full  
    electrification expenses should suppress an escalating the cost increase and maintain 
    affordability.  The City would need to be monitor if the full electrification is used for the purpose 
    of forced evictions. This should establish if there is an additional impact to the city electrical 
    grid and any infrastructure costs resulting in utility rate and/or local tax increases.       
 
5. Business as usual:  Full electrification and BAAD Zero NOx requirements are waived/exempt 
    for rental properties, fix income residents, and low income residents.  This may assure no 
    significant increase to rental rates or unnecessary hardship to the low or fixed income.  The 
    other listed alternative changes are at the discretion and encouraged for maximum benefit. 
    This is similar and equal allowances to the relaxed conditions allowed for commercial buildings.  
    Affected parties may still may face the collateral cost impact due to the accumulated impact 
    from the other three policy conditions.  Voluntarily adopting full electrification is highly 
    encouraged as was for adopting solar.  
 
985 of 1111

--- page 986 ---
6
Conclusions: 
 
There is a fundamental problem for a lack of information as to how the various degrees of 
mitigating actions affects the local micro-climate outcome.  It is a cost versus benefit decision or, 
in this case for some, reducing the quality of life sacrifice for a indeterminate outcome.  The 
actual versus perceived financial status of the population is problematic for expectations to 
implement initiatives.  The magnitude of affordable housing needed should be a sanity check.  
 
There appears to be a lack of a systemic/comprehensive reference for what changes may be 
necessary for full electrification and/or electrification-ready.  A cost of electrification calculator with 
a menu of itemized estimated costs and estimated time-to-completion would be highly useful.  
This should be useful for an informed decision and/or approval.  The provided recommended 
policy is largely based upon current economic and policy conditions which are very volatile and 
may be prohibitive to do anything of significance.  The outcomes of past City initiatives and the 
fluid federal/state/local policy conditions may influence acceptance.  
 
The BAAD Zero NOx requirements ban for gas water heaters and gas furnaces appears 
impractical and a blow to initiative management creditability, and/or will create predictable 
collateral damage.  The gas devices can provide stand-by, systemic redundancy as a 
contingency.   
 
The full electrification has good intentions, but there is a lack of information as well as 
contingency planning that may endanger the safety of a portion of the population.  Predictably, 
failure to maintain benefits of adoption for a mitigating action will have negative consequences for 
any initiatives in the future or sustaining the existing ones. 
 
 
Alan Ouye 
May 27, 2025 
986 of 1111

--- page 987 ---
From:
Jennifer Mora
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Fw: Electrify San Mateo: I support all five decarbonization options
Date:
Monday, May 12, 2025 6:42:48 AM
FYI
From: Emily Morris <
>
Sent: Sunday, May 11, 2025 5:00 PM
To: Emily Morris <
>
Subject: Electrify San Mateo: I support all five decarbonization options
 
Hello,
I'm a resident of North Central San Mateo, and I am writing in strong support of all five
decarbonization options as part of the Electrify San Mateo project. I believe it is critical we
reduce greenhouse emissions so we can enjoy a livable, breathable San Mateo for many years
to come. Thank you for your time and consideration.
Thank you,
Emily Morris
987 of 1111

--- page 988 ---
From:
Pam Rittelmeyer
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
May 14 SIC meeting agenda: support new business item 1
Date:
Wednesday, May 14, 2025 10:33:59 AM
Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,
I am writing as a resident of San Mateo and President of Borel Neighborhood Association to
urge you to take action to reduce our community's greenhouse gas emissions by supporting the decarbonization objectives
being considered tonight as item 1 under New Business.
We are in a race to limit impacts from climate change. We have the energy efficient technology, the technical assistance
programs, and a growing workforce to act now. The objectives in this agenda item are flexible and
sensible. By committing to a clean energy future for our buildings, San Mateo
can demonstrate leadership on climate action, create healthier living environments, and ensure a just transition for all residents.
Thank you for your attention to this critical issue and for your ongoing work to build a more sustainable and resilient city.
Sincerely,
Pamela Rittelmeyer, PhD
President, Borel Neighborhood Association
Sent from Gmail Mobile
988 of 1111

--- page 989 ---
From:
Robert Whitehair
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc:
Andrea Chow; Michelle Hudson
Subject:
May 14, 2025 SIC Meeting - Item 1 Under New Business
Date:
Wednesday, May 14, 2025 5:24:09 AM
Dear Chair Narita, Vice Chair Michael, and Andrea Chow
We thank you for the opportunity to provide this letter of support, and for your
continued climate leadership. As you know, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change has determined that if we continue to emit greenhouse gas emissions at the
current rate, climate change will become irreversible in five years. The time to take
strong climate action is now, and, in light of the federal government’s inaction on
climate, it’s more important than ever that cities like San Mateo demonstrate strong
climate leadership. 
Item 1 under New Business on the May 14 agenda will go a long way towards
implementation of the following City Council objective which has already received
strong SIC backing:
“Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and infrastructure,
and eliminate methane gas use by 2030.”
We respectfully request that the SIC support all five objectives of the Sustainable
Building Strategy: 
Keep in place the very successful reach codes for new construction
Extend reach codes to retrofits of existing buildings
Support accelerated elimination of Nitrous Oxides, specifically the Air District 
requirements to replace failed gas water heaters and gas furnaces
Build upon an established program of building performance standards
Support electrification of City buildings
We want to take this opportunity to emphasize all that has been done already:
Significant City support for decarbonization – The City of San Mateo hired a 
consultant and provided valuable City staff time, to prepare a decarbonization 
study for adoption over the next few months
989 of 1111

--- page 990 ---
Even More City support for decarbonization – The City of San Mateo has 
created a valuable website: “Electrify San Mateo”
Concierge service for Electrification – Peninsula Clean Energy has created a 
“Concierge Service” for electric vehicles and electric home upgrades, available 
to everyone
Equity for renters – San Mateo community-based organizations are directly 
involved in helping renters within the City of San Mateo 
More Equity for renters – PCE has active rebate programs focused on renters.
Equity for homeowners – Free electric appliances are now provided by PCE 
for income qualified homeowners
Clean energy at rates lower than PG&E – Peninsula Clean Energy has 
provided $22.8 million in savings for residents and businesses within the City of 
San Mateo
Reduced GHG – San Mateo residents and businesses have signed on to 
electricity from PCE, which has reduced emissions from electricity by 98% in 
just 10 years. 
Significant rebates are available to all for EVs, EBikes, water heaters, 
heating/cooling and other components.
Many local community-based organizations are aligned in this important effort. For
example, we have learned that along with San Mateo Climate Action Team and 350
Silicon Valley, so many other organizations are working towards successful
implementation of sustainable building strategies: One San Mateo, El Concilio,
Climate Resilient Communities, Sustainable San Mateo County, Indivisible San
Mateo, Peninsula Interfaith Climate Action, Sierra Club, Citizens Climate Lobby, and
Physicians for Social Responsibility, just to name a few.
Many thanks for all you are doing.
Michelle Hudson and Robert Whitehair, Co Leaders
San Mateo Climate Action Team and 350 Silicon Valley San Mateo City Team
990 of 1111

--- page 991 ---
From:
Ricki McGlashan
To:
Senior Commission Mailbox; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo); Community
Relations Commission
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo
Date:
Monday, May 12, 2025 5:16:55 PM
I totally support any measures our city can take to encourage or require all electric houses.  We shut off our gas line
18 months ago and have been so pleased.  San Mateo has become notable in my mind for being at the forefront of
issues that can make our lives better in the long run.  This is a huge area where you can get in front and stay in front
of the pack.
Ricki and Doug McGlashan
San Mateo
991 of 1111

--- page 992 ---
From:
Gary Trott 2
To:
Senior Commission Mailbox; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Community Relations Commission; City
Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
"Gary Trott"
Subject:
Decarbonization Study - public input
Date:
Sunday, May 11, 2025 9:58:28 PM
Dear San Mateo City commissioners and boards
 
Re: Decarbonization Study agenda item
 
Across the next days, all of you will be hearing from the  Electrify San Mateo project team about the
findings from the Decarbonization Study. Unfortunately, I am not able to attend the commission
meetings.  Nevertheless, I strongly support all five of the decarbonization proposals contained within
the decarbonization report.  The five options under consideration are shown below.   
 
As a home owner, and resident of San Mateo City, I am three quarters the way through the process
of electrifying my whole home. I am changing the appliance energy source from natural gas to all
electric versions. I am doing this across a span of four years to maximize the federal tax credits.  So I
know in-depth about all of the implementation challenges. Including specific details associated with
my house, and listening to home owners at various climate related events about their experiences.
There are many points of contention. People make poor choices. Contractors try to maximize their
revenue instead of helping their clients.  And the rebate application processes are adding
burdensome overhead in Time-Of-Use reporting requirements.  Only by providing information
resources, and best practices,  to be shared with citizens can the best implementations with a
reduction in non-traditional, installation problems be achieved.  
 
Time is of the essence to begin implementation of the methods described in the report. Day -- by –
Day we collectively are putting more and more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The climate
disasters that scroll across our TV screens from stronger hurricanes, stronger tornadoes, large
temperature swings, wildfires and more will continue to worsen across the next decades.  Acting
today, by taking positive steps to reduce San Mateo City greenhouse gas emissions, will be a positive
step towards reducing the future climate hazards, rebuilding costs, and the health and safety of all
San Mateo residents.  Act now to get the electrification converstion process started as soon as
possible.
 
Regards
Dr. Gary Trott
Homeowner
 
1 Business as usual: City should continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus
on outreach
and incentives.
 
2. Reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach
codes to
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations.
992 of 1111

--- page 993 ---
3. Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements:
 
4. Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new
set of policy
standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying
commercial buildings as a phased approach.
 
5. Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government
renovations to
go electric first.
993 of 1111

--- page 994 ---
From:
t3e lolz
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
comments on Electrification and PG&E
Date:
Friday, May 9, 2025 6:21:26 PM
If we are to electrify San Mateo, then we first need to get our electricity rates down. PG&E's
electricity rates keep going up and up, while the rates for natural gas are relatively stable. 
Until either PG&E suffers some accountability or San Mateo starts it's own utility (similar to
Santa Clara and Alameda) then it makes no financial sense to electrify our homes.  Please do
not force electrification upon us until you get our electricity rates under control. 
Thanks, 
Garrett
994 of 1111

--- page 995 ---
From:
Connie Schram
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Gas stove
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 4:04:10 PM
Dear Andrea Chow, I really enjoy cooking with my gas stove. Where do you plan to get all this electricity? And
how will the electricity be generated? I have lived in homes with electric stove tops and I hate them. How do you
expect me to pay for converting a furnace, clothes dryer, water heater, oven and stove top in my home? And then
pay for that electricity!
Sent from my iPad
995 of 1111

--- page 996 ---
From:
Maureen Galindo
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 3:20:08 PM
Dear Andrea,
In response to your email regarding switching from gas to electric equipment, I am not in
favor of this action.  When I have incurred the loss of power at my home (which has been
happening more frequently) I am happy to have a gas stove in order to prepare
breakfast/dinner. We also have a restaurant business and the ability to prepare orders on an
electric appliance on a busy night would be next to impossible. 
I believe the city should provide the pros and cons of switching over to electric appliances,
then let the people decide whether to move in that direction. Forcing the people to switch to
electricity is not in the best interests of the citizenry of San Mateo.
Regards,
Maureen Galindo
996 of 1111

--- page 997 ---
From:
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Re: Reminder: Electrify San Mateo: Upcoming Community Meetings
Date:
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 2:10:42 PM
Attachments:
image003.png
Hi Andrea, 
Thank you for the reminder. Unfortunately, I will not be able to attend the meeting. I would
like to provide a comment. The City currently has a $5 million deficit. Next year the
deficit balloons to $15 million. In light of this dire situation, I think the city should look
carefully at all line-item expenditures. Climate resiliency is one area where the city could
postpone expenditures. At 0.10 to 0.12 inches sea level rise per year, we have some time. Let's
postpone significant expenditures for at least 2 years.
Thank you,
Laurie Hietter
On Tue, May 13, 2025 at 2:00 PM Andrea Chow
<achow_at_cityofsanmateo_org_hg09my13xj62jc_0csc7630@icloud.com> wrote:
Reminder! Upcoming community meetings for Electrify San Mateo:
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable
Building Strategy. Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively
scheduled for June 16, 2025. Please see the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and
information posted roughly one week before the Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
997 of 1111

--- page 998 ---
From: Andrea Chow 
Sent: Monday, April 28, 2025 2:14 PM
Subject: Electrify San Mateo: Three Upcoming Community Meetings
 
Hello,
 
Switching from natural gas to carbon-free electric equipment in our homes and buildings is
critical to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our community. Gas appliances
release air pollutants and studies have shown that exposure to these pollutants pose
significant health risks. In addition to advancing our climate goals, electrification eliminates
these risks and can provide a safer and healthier environment. The Electrify San Mateo
project team will present existing building electrification policy pathways at three upcoming
City Commission meetings:
May 12: Senior Advisory Commission
May 14: Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
May 21: Community Relations Commission
 
We invite you to share your feedback and shape the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable
Building Strategy. Community feedback will be shared with City Council tentatively
scheduled for June 2025. Please see the Public Meeting Portal for meeting agenda and
information posted roughly one week before the Commission meetings.
 
Andrea
 
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
998 of 1111

--- page 999 ---
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
-- 
Laurie 
999 of 1111

--- page 1000 ---
From:
wendy woodard
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electric Conversion
Date:
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 10:16:04 AM
I am not in favor of moving up a deadline that surpasses state law and the Bay Area
Air Quality Management District. 
Wendy Woodard
1000 of 1111

--- page 1001 ---
From:
Dino Martins
To:
Andrea Chow; City Council (San Mateo); mewsom@cityofsanmateo.org; Clerk
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo - 
, San Mateo
Date:
Monday, April 28, 2025 2:40:17 PM
Hello Andrea,
I just received your email pertaining to the upcoming meetings/discussions
regarding the "Electrify San Mateo" initiative.
Unfortunately I am going out of town in May during the dates that you
listed when the public discussions are taking place.
I just went through the process of getting my service upgraded to
accommodate some enhancements that we made to the property and to
be prepared for the upcoming requirement of switching over from natural
gas to electricity. The process was a disaster and took almost one year to
get completed. While the main issues were with PG&E the City of San
Mateo also contributed to the delays.
There is WAY TOO MUCH RED TAPE in the current process. In our case this
lead to costly delays and much frustration to my wife and I.
I would be happy to share my thoughts with you, should you or someone
else want to reach out to discuss in detail.
I hope to hear back from someone.
My mobile number is: 
.
Warm regards,
Gualdino "Dino" Martins
, San Mateo, CA 94402
     
1001 of 1111

--- page 1002 ---
From:
Ines Malardino
To:
Alex Khojikian; Andrea Chow
Subject:
No on decarbonization pls
Date:
Wednesday, March 5, 2025 12:01:08 PM
 
Hello…
 
The proposed plan to begin the decarbonization of existing homes, commercial, and
retail buildings
 is so unacceptable for so many reasons. Please do not assist on this?
 
 
Ines Malardino
1002 of 1111

--- page 1003 ---
From:
William Williams
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electrification
Date:
Friday, February 21, 2025 10:55:25 AM
Please take into consideration the cost of modifying small existing structures.
The power grid does not have sufficient capacity to provide for "all-electric."
Higher electric rates add a forever escalating cost on top of modification costs.
The best solution is to have everyone consume less energy instead of increasing electricity
demand.
X Bill Williams, San Mateo
Sent from Outlook
1003 of 1111

--- page 1004 ---
To: rea

Cc: Alex Khojikian
Subject: Mandates decarbonization
Date: Friday, February 28, 2025 1:17:47 PM
Attachments: image001.png
image005.pnq

Business Owner 37 years in San Mateo.

Saddened to see the same ridiculous unsupportive feel good policies being proposed with
respect to mandating carbon emission elimination. How many more productive Californians
you want to lose?

My State has become the laughingstock of the US, highest gas prices, PG & E through the roof,
highest taxes, woke policies right and left yet San Mateo wants to continue to further restrict
and overwhelm the power grid for virtue signaling feel good policies.

Opposed to this but the further trampling on the productive sector will continue. | remember
Newsom saying he was going to find out why gas prices were so high. He went silent when he
realized it was all policies and taxes.

Raymond Laherrere

First Equity Property Management
p:
a:

/|aon

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This communication constitutes an electronic communication within the meaning of
the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, 18 USC 2510, sent by First Equity Property Management and its
disclosure is strictly limited to the recipient intended by the sender of this message. This communication may
contain confidential and privileged material for the sole use of the intended recipient and receipt by anyone other
than the intended recipient does not constitute a loss of the confidential or privileged nature of the communications.
Any review or distribution by another is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact the
sender by return of this electronic mail and delete all copies of this communication. If you are not the intended
addressee, (a) any disclosure, reproduction, distribution, or action you take because of it is strictly prohibited; (b)
please return the complete message to the sender, and (c) this message is not a solicitation for purchase or sale or
an agreement of any kind whatsoever that binds the sender.

Mateo, CA 94403

BBB Rating: A+
ACCREDITED Sener
BUSINESS cee

Click for Profile

1004 of 1111


--- page 1005 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
66 Franklin Street, Suite 300
Oakland, California 94607
510-834-4455
www.rinconconsultants.com
June 16, 2025
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Via email: achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: 
Electrify San Mateo: Existing Building Electrification Policy Pathways Analysis
In the City of San Mateo (City), the residential and commercial built environment make up 38 percent of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. To achieve emissions reduction targets consistent with state goals and 
the City’s Climate Action Plan, the City must decarbonize its residential and commercial buildings. This is 
strengthened by the 2022 City Council priority to “Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and 
infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030.” The decarbonization or electrification of buildings 
refers to the transition from gas equipment to carbon-free electric equipment for space and water 
heating, clothes drying, cooking and more. Decarbonization can also focus on increasing energy efficiency 
and the use of renewable energy. In San Mateo, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides electricity that is 
50% renewable and virtually 100% carbon free and is committed to delivering 100% renewable and carbon 
free electricity by 2025. The City has already passed a New Construction Reach Code aimed at 
decarbonizing new buildings, however, electrifying existing buildings offers the largest opportunity and 
most cost-effective strategy for GHG emission reductions. 
In May 2023, the City, with the help of Rincon Consultants Inc. (Rincon), began developing the Building 
for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy project as a part of the larger Electrify San 
Mateo initiative. The goal of this project is to develop a long-term strategy document to electrify San 
Mateo’s existing building stock, including policies and actions for both residential and nonresidential 
buildings. This report provides Rincon’s final policy findings which are based on the cumulative technical 
analysis and community feedback completed to date. 
Project Timeline and Overview 
The City of San Mateo and Rincon began the initial research for this project in the Summer of 2023. The 
initial analysis included building segmentation analysis and an electrification cost study. Rincon also 
conducted research on the current best practices and a wide range of feasible policy options being 
deployed by other cities around the country. The project timeline is shown below in Figure 1.
1005 of 1111

--- page 1006 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
2
Figure 1
Project Timeline to Date
Community Outreach (Phase I)
During the first phase of community outreach, the City aimed to understand the goals and concerns of 
the community as they relate to San Mateo’s buildings and decarbonization. Through the initial round of 
engagement, the City identified affordability, health and safety, resilience, and climate as the primary 
goals of the community. The largest concerns related to building electrification were the potential for 
higher costs, increased energy bills, and a difficult installation process. Based on this feedback and 
direction from City Council, the initial policy scan list was narrowed down to five potential policy 
directions. 
Policy Pathways 
The results from the Phase 1 of outreach helped narrow the initial policy scan into a list of five policy 
pathways, which were presented to City Council in January of 2024. These policies were chosen based on 
the GHG reductions potential as well as cost-effectiveness. The five policy pathways include 
1.
Continue adopted reach codes and focus on outreach and incentives (Business as Usual)
2.
Explore and adopt new reach codes to encourage and require electrification 
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of the Bay Area Air District’s (BAAD)1 Zero NOx 
requirements 
4.
Establish Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings 
5.
Adopt an electric-first policy for City facilities 
1 The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) changed their name to the Bay Area Air District (BAAD) in 2025. 
1006 of 1111

--- page 1007 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
3
City Council provided feedback which included direction for City staff to continue exploring the feasibility, 
cost, and community support for each of the five options.
Community Outreach (Phase II)
In the second phase of community outreach (see Engagement Summary Memo for detailed results), the 
City aimed to get specific feedback about the five policy pathways. Phase II outreach events included both 
in-person and virtual workshops, presentations to the Senior Advisory Commission, Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission, and Community Relations Commission, as well as a second online feedback 
survey. Feedback received from Phase II of outreach is incorporated into an analysis of each policy 
pathway in the following sections. 
Addressing Community Concerns
Throughout the community engagement process, there have been polarized responses to building 
electrification. While most constituents care about addressing the Climate Crisis and agree that the City 
should pursue existing building electrification in some form, many residents also expressed concerns. The 
primary concerns identified during Phase I and Phase II engagement included: 
•
Upfront costs of electric equipment 
•
On-bill or operational costs of electric equipment
•
Installation and electrical infrastructure challenges
•
Grid reliability and resilience
•
Lack of education surrounding electrification (addressed in Policy Option 1)
Each of the pathways balance the City’s climate goals and the roughly half of respondents who strongly 
support building electrification with the concerns voiced during the engagement process in different ways. 
Each primary community concern is addressed below and further covered in the policy summaries. 
Upfront Costs of Electrical Equipment
For many building owners, making the switch from natural gas to electric appliances results in higher 
upfront costs without additional incentives or rebates. While rebates can cover up to 100% of these costs, 
rebates are not always available. However, not installing electric equipment when it is most cost effective 
can have significant cost impacts in the future. Therefore, the City has identified flexible policies that allow 
building owners to choose electrification or other cost-effective strategies. Each policy below provides 
additional details of the upfront costs and savings. 
On-Bill or Operational Costs
Ongoing operational costs (how much our monthly energy bills are) were another concern regarding 
building electrification. However, recent studies by Peninsula Clean Energy show that the cost savings 
from building electrification are increasing as natural gas rate increases outpace electricity rates. Average 
savings (when using electric rates like e-elec) were $29 per household per month after electrifying both 
water and space heaters. These savings are demonstrated in Figure 3. 
1007 of 1111

--- page 1008 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
4
Figure 2
Average Monthly Bill Savings from Electrification
Installation and Electrical Infrastructure Challenges
While most electric appliance upgrades are relatively simple, some buildings present difficult edge cases. 
Some buildings may not have sufficient space or electrical infrastructure to easily upgrade. Upgrading 
electric panels and service lines can take months to complete. While all-building owners are encouraged 
to make a plan for electrification over time, many of the policies avoid these challenges by providing 
flexible paths to compliance or focusing on specific appliances which do not have these challenges. For 
example, the flex-path retrofit policy provides many options including insulation and other cost-effective 
efficiency upgrades at the time of major renovation. The AC to heat pump policy avoids these challenges 
because the heat pump upgrade uses the same electrical circuit as an AC, eliminating the need for 
upgrades. Grid Reliability and Resilience
Grid Reliability and Resilience
Grid reliability and resilience concerns arose due to the perception that increased electrical use would put 
strain on the grid and that electricity was less reliable than gas. However, it has been nearly 20 years since 
1008 of 1111

--- page 1009 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
5
California had a power outage due to lack of electricity.3 Furthermore, the utilities, the CPUC, and the CEC, 
are all planning for increased electricity usage over time. The CEC now assumes a 27% increase in peak 
demand by 2035 due to electrification of buildings and vehicles and is expanding the grid to meet that 
demand. Furthermore, neither gas water heaters nor most furnaces work without electricity, meaning gas 
appliances are no more resilient to power outages than their electric upgrades. Therefore, the policies 
identified below focus on these appliances.
Policy Findings Summary
To analyze the feasibility and benefits of each policy pathway, Rincon provided a description of each 
pathway, pro’s and con’s, precedent legislation in other cities and the state, GHG reductions potential, 
community feedback, cost-effectiveness, and equity considerations. Based on the detailed analysis in the 
Policy Analysis section, the following summary highlights the major takeaways of the five policy pathways. 
1.
Business as usual: The City could continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and expand 
outreach, education, and incentives. In the past, the City adopted local building code amendments to 
require more sustainable new construction than the State code. To continue to surpass State code, 
the City could consider other new construction reach codes including an energy performance or Zero 
NOx reach code. This approach has a limited impact because new construction accounts for a fraction 
of San Mateo’s development. However, this approach is already in place, cost saving up front and over 
time, and received community support based on our engagement efforts. There are no policy-related 
additional costs to building owners unless they voluntarily decide to electrify. A Zero NOx new 
construction approach would save an estimated 1,770 MT CO2e per year by 2030 while a performance 
approach would save 20 MT CO2e per year by 2030. 
2.
Reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to 
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations or at time of replacement for select 
appliances (air conditioners). New reach codes would vary depending on the updated State codes. 
One example of a reach code during renovations is requiring the installation of a two-way heat pump 
when an air conditioner (AC) is installed.  A Two-way AC time of replacement reach code could help 
residents save money by installing a single heat pump, rather than an AC and furnace, ahead of 
upcoming Bay Area Air District (BAAD) regulation which essentially mandates electric furnaces starting 
in 2029. The incremental cost of installing a heat pump instead of a traditional AC is the same (from 
$1,000 savings to $1,000 cost) and is covered by a $1,500 PCE rebate. Installing a heat pump today is 
alignment with future Air District regulations and thus could also save a building owner money when 
their furnace needs replacement. Reach codes during renovations also help encourage electrification 
at an opportune time when a property owner is already considering home improvements. Another 
policy example is a Flex Path reach code which would require additional energy efficiency or 
electrification actions at time of renovation or replacement of certain appliances. The upfront costs 
of electrification improvements can vary depending on the project and unique circumstances of your 
home. These policies target the most cost-effective time to electrify and provide a variety of pathways 
for compliance. Cost-effectiveness studies must be completed to validate any adopted reach codes. 
Past studies have shown utility savings over time make electric equipment upgrades cost-effective 
compared to gas equipment replacements. Additionally, the Flex Path reach code allows residents to 
3 https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/community-health/building-appliance-implementation/grid-impacts-final-
pdf.pdf?rev=14a3ea4d46704d19a48cf03e3984c90e&sc_lang=en 
1009 of 1111

--- page 1010 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
6
find the most cost-effective retrofit for their unique situation. Two-Way AC reach code would reduce 
emissions by 2,200 MT CO2e per year by 2030, while the Flex Path reach code would reduce emissions 
by approximately 730 MT CO2e per year by 2030.
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements: BAAD adopted 
zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters 
starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. A local ordinance ahead of 
these milestones would require the replacement of gas appliances with zero NOx versions when they 
fail or are voluntarily upgraded. This policy would have the most significant impact on greenhouse gas 
reductions with the ability to reduce emissions an average of 9,700 MT CO2e per year by 2030. 
However, this policy could incur large installation costs for residents in some cases which was the 
number one concern documented during both phases of community engagement. Due to the 
polarized community feedback, with some constituents being unsupportive of mandates that increase 
costs, it may be difficult to garner public buy in for a Zero NOx Equipment Requirement policy. This 
policy prioritizes GHG emissions reductions but does not address the community’s major concerns 
over costs and difficult installations. 
4.
Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new set of 
policy standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, 
electrifying commercial buildings as a phased approach. This is a well-established policy mechanism 
that has been adopted by many local governments across the country and builds off of AB 802 
benchmarking requirements mandated by the state for buildings larger than 50,000 SF. This approach 
can be customizable and lead to incremental reductions in energy use but not necessarily 
electrification. The flexibility of this policy and phased approach allows for building owners to plan for 
appliance replacement and decarbonize buildings in the most efficient way for each unique situation. 
Commercial building space makes up over 39 million square feet within the City and is a significant 
contributor to GHG emissions. However, due to the phased approach, this policy would likely not lead 
to significant GHG reductions before 2030. However, it could have significant reductions before 2045 
as the thresholds are calculated and implemented. The development and operation of such a local 
program would necessitate significant staff time, so choosing a threshold that maximizes square 
footage covered while minimizing the number of building owners affected is crucial. Although this 
policy received majority community support, equity for renters is also a significant concern and 
guardrails would need to be set in place to avoid exacerbating the housing crisis especially for 
multifamily properties. 
5.
Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government 
renovations to go electric first. The policy ensures financial and feasibility data is being collected for 
municipal facilities that will allow the City to compare costs to electrify versus replacing with gas 
equipment. This policy has a limited reach as it only applies to municipal buildings and GHG reductions 
potential would depend on the rate of equipment failure and availability of replacements. However, 
it demonstrates City leadership on hard-to-electrify existing buildings that mirror the commercial 
sector. Several other cities have adopted similar municipal electrification policies. Residents were 
largely in favor of this policy as it would not incur any costs to the community. The City’s municipal 
buildings are estimated to generate approximately 586 MT CO2e per year of natural gas emissions, 
this policy was estimated to be able to reduce this by 25% by 2030 for an estimated savings of 146 
MT CO2e.
1010 of 1111

--- page 1011 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
7
Policy Analysis
Policy Option 1: Continue adopted reach codes and focus on outreach and 
incentives (Business as Usual)
Description 
Policy Option 1 continues to implement the City’s adopted reach codes and identifies opportunities to 
incentivize the electrification process using education, outreach, and connecting the community to 
rebates and technical support. The City’s adopted reach code requires energy compliance margins for new 
buildings will be effective through December 31, 2025, the end of the code cycle.  As part of this policy 
option, the City would investigate options around continuing the new building electrification reach code 
through either an updated performance standard which complies with the 2025 building code, or a zero 
NOx standard for new buildings. 
This option would also use staff time to conduct additional engagement and connect homeowners to 
incentives and technical information regarding building electrification. It would also promote existing 
programming and incentives run by partners (e.g. PCE) to assist in a voluntary shift towards electrification 
while preparing the community to electrify space and water heating end uses in advance of upcoming 
BAAD (previously BAAQMD) Zero NOx requirements. For example, this option could include an education 
campaign to encourage homeowners to prewire for water heaters and furnaces, so they are ready to 
make the switch once their appliance burns out. Another example incentive would be waiving permit costs 
for electric equipment upgrades. 
Policy Pros
•
Policy already in place/ has received community support 
•
No policy-related additional costs to building owners unless they voluntarily opt-in 
•
Allows community to prepare for upcoming BAAD requirements through City-led outreach and 
education 
•
Allows community to prepare for upcoming requirements through electric-readiness requirements 
Policy Cons
•
Limited impact and reach: The adopted reach codes do not affect the  existing building stock 
•
Relies on engagement to reach community members which can be difficult
•
Outreach and education programs on their own are extremely variable in their effectiveness. 
Investment of staff time and city resources into outreach may not achieve substantial shifts in 
behavior that will be required to decarbonize buildings, even with major outreach campaigns. 
•
Education and outreach campaigns can be very time/resource intensive with minimal programmatic 
results and unlikely to result in widespread behavior changes above baseline 
Greenhouse Gas Reductions Potential 
New construction reach codes have varying GHG reduction potential. For example, a new construction 
zero NOx requirement could save up to 1,770 MT CO2e per year by 2030 if all new buildings were built 
1011 of 1111

--- page 1012 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
8
without natural gas. An energy performance reach code for new construction would lead to approximately 
20 MT CO2e GHG reductions due to the stringency of the 2025 building code, however, precise reductions 
potential is unknown because the flexible nature of the pathway does not always guarantee 
electrification. 
As mentioned above, education and outreach and sharing incentives with residents is an important tool 
for the successful implementation of electrification policy but are not substantial enough to gauge GHG 
emissions on their own. It is difficult to predict what impact these voluntary programs would have on 
overall electrification rates, however, they are expected to be lower than the policy requirements 
identified in the other policy pathways. 
Community Feedback 
Across engagement events, this approach received broad community support. In the community survey, 
responses were 50% of respondents supporting this policy option, 11% neutral, and 38% do not support. 
At the in-person community event, many community members expressed that the City has not done 
enough in terms of electrification policy beyond new construction and that a “business as usual” approach 
is not sufficient to meet the City’s climate goals. Those opposed to this approach are opposed to any local 
building electrification policy and recommend reliance on regional and state regulations. The Senior 
Advisory Commission, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and Community Relations 
Commission were supportive of this policy pathway.
Cost Effectiveness and Equity Considerations 
This policy approach would continue to incentivize all-electric new construction and direct the City to 
expand outreach efforts with the community to increase voluntary existing building electrification. New 
Construction reach codes have been shown to save money. Research from the New Buildings Institute 
(NBI) highlights that all-electric homes save between $7,500 and $8,200 in construction costs compared 
to mixed-fuel homes.5 These cost savings are primarily due to avoiding installing fees for natural gas 
infrastructure like gas meters and pipelines. These homes also save money over time especially when 
paired with heat pumps and solar. Outreach, education, and sharing incentives incur no cost to community 
members and can help connect people to resources that will lessen costs for electrification. The City will 
need to provide adequate staff time to support building electrification engagement and other programs 
like peer-to-peer home tours for this approach to be effective. These engagement activities, when paired 
with other strategies listed below, can help the community feel more comfortable and informed on the 
benefits of electrification. 
Policy Findings
The adoption of reach codes while expanding education, outreach, and incentives to promote building 
electrification have been critical pathways for the City of San Mateo to support decarbonization to date. 
This approach is supportive of the other policy options because expanding education and engagement 
can potentially increase the number of cost-effective voluntary projects and expand community 
understanding of new technologies and regulations (like the upcoming Air District’s Zero NOx rules).  The 
community expressed the need education campaigns like helping to facilitate peer-to-peer home tours 
5 NBI. 2022. New Study on Electrification Costs Shows Benefits to Building Owners and Society. https://newbuildings.org/new-study-on-
electrification-costs-shows-benefits-to-building-owners-and-society/
1012 of 1111

--- page 1013 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
9
and partnering with larger County initiatives like PCE’s helpdesk to ensure residents are receiving the 
guidance they need on their electrification journey. While this policy offers several benefits, it is important 
to acknowledge that this approach alone will not be sufficient to meet the City's climate goals.  . 
Policy Option 2: Reach Codes for Renovations 
Description
Option 2 would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to encourage and/or require 
electrification. Reach codes are typically evaluated on a three-year cycle in alignment with the new 
Building Code. New reach codes options would vary depending on the updated Energy Code and Green 
Building Code. The City’s adopted reach codes apply to residential remodels. The City could consider a 
variety of reach codes that apply to different building types and/or equipment. The City focused on two 
priority existing building reach codes include a Two-Way Air Conditioning (AC) reach code or a Flexible 
Path reach code. These policies could be adopted individually or both adopted to complement each other. 
Other reach codes which were not covered with the community but may be important in the future are 
time of sale requirements similar to the policy adopted by the City of Berkeley.7
Policy Option 2a: Two-Way Air Conditioning Reach Code 
The Two-Way AC reach code would require all new air conditioning units to provide both heating and 
cooling through the installation of a two-way heat pump. A two-way heat pump is a versatile HVAC system 
that can both heat and cool a building by reversing the flow of refrigerant within the system. In heating 
mode, it extracts heat from an external source, such as outdoor air or the ground, and transfers it indoors. 
In cooling mode, it reverses the process, removing heat from inside the building and releasing it outside. 
This dual functionality eliminates the need for separate heating and cooling systems which can save 
building owners money in the long term. Two-way heat pumps run completely off electricity and heat and 
cool spaces with high efficiency, making them a great way to reduce emissions coming from homes. 
Policy Option 2b: Flex Path Reach Code 
Under the flex path policies, the City could adopt one or more policies that require additional energy 
efficiency or electrification actions at time of renovation or replacement of certain appliances. One 
example would be an energy efficiency checklist in which renovation projects over $75,000 must include 
two cost effective energy efficient improvements in their project. The flex path policies do not ban gas 
and provide flexible pathways for building owners to meet the decarbonization requirements. 
Policy Pros: 
•
The City has experience exploring, adopting and implementing reach codes
•
Two-Way AC is a cost-efficient and simple solution
•
Flex path offers variety of compliance pathways to reduce emissions and building owners could find 
the most cost-efficient pathways for their homes 
7 https://berkeleyca.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2025-04-15-Amendments-to-the-BESO.pdf  
1013 of 1111

--- page 1014 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
10
Policy Cons:
•
Community and builder resistance to new regulations.
•
Further analysis needed, dependent on reach code adopted.
Other Cities and Legislative Drivers
In May 2023, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District, now the Bay Area Air District (BAAD) adopted 
zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and 
gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country 
and outpace the state’s goal of banning the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the 
state starting in 2030. These policy efforts drive California closer to the ambitious climate goal of carbon 
neutrality by 2045. Reach codes during renovations present an  opportunity to ensure that the City’s 
residential building stock is prepared for this upcoming mandate. 
Two-Way AC policies are relatively new, so no jurisdiction has yet to officially adopt this reach code, but 
many are expected to in the 2025 building cycle. The “Flex Path” reach code style is more common with 
several jurisdictions who have adopted this policy listed below: 
•
City of San Rafael (Adopted 2024): San Rafael has adopted a "Flex Path" for single family remodels 
over 500 square feet. This policy requires homeowners to choose from a menu of energy-saving 
measures, such as insulation upgrades, HVAC improvements, or solar installations, to meet a target 
score based on their home's vintage. The program is designed to encourage energy efficiency and 
electrification while allowing homeowners to select measures that best suit their needs and budget.
•
City of San Luis Obispo (Adopted 2024): Starting January 1, 2025, single family major additions or 
alterations must install a set of energy efficiency measures to achieve a target score from a weighted 
menu of measures. Projects that include a new electrical panel and service upgrade to 200A shall 
include electric readiness components.
•
Town of Corte Madera (Adopted 2024): Single family additions or alterations greater than 750 square 
feet of floor area shall install a set of measures to achieve a target score from a weighted menu of 
measures; which varies based on building vintage. Projects that include a laundry room or kitchen 
remodel, or an electrical service panel upgrade, must also install electric readiness measures.
Greenhouse Gas Reductions Potential 
The Two-Way AC reach code would reduce emissions by 2,200 MT CO2e per year by 2030. Two-way heat 
pumps tend to be two to four times more efficient than both one-way air conditioners and traditional 
heating sources, leading to large potential GHG reductions.9 While the Flex Path reach code would reduce 
emissions by approximately 730 MT CO2e per year by 2030. The Flex Path reductions are lower since they 
only capture remodels over a certain size which occur at a lower rate than other appliance replacements.  
Community Feedback 
Across community engagement events, constituents were supportive of this policy approach. Community 
members recognized the importance of electrifying during planned renovation projects. In the community 
9 Canary Media. A new bill could speed up American electrification by 20 years. https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/heat-pumps/a-new-bill-
could-speed-up-american-electrification-by-20-years
1014 of 1111

--- page 1015 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
11
survey, responses were mixed with 49% respondents supporting this policy option, 6% neutral and 45% 
do not support. Multiple constituents expressed a desire for an exception for edge cases that are 
financially or spatially infeasible. Those opposed are concerned about upfront costs or are generally 
opposed to all local building electrification policy. The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and 
Community Relations Commission were supportive of this policy pathway.
Cost Effectiveness and Equity Considerations 
Although the Two-Way AC policy would mandate installation of a two-way heat pump at time of 
replacement, this retrofit is highly cost-effective as it can both cool and heat a space, effectively replacing 
both a central air conditioner and furnace within a home. This reduces the need for separate furnace 
replacements. Implementing a Two-Way AC policy is particularly advantageous given the upcoming BAAD 
Zero NOx requirements. 
If a constituent's air conditioner breaks before 2029 and is replaced with a gas HVAC system, they will 
need to purchase an electric furnace when their furnace eventually breaks after the 2029 BAAD Zero NOx 
implementation date. Conversely, adopting a Two-Way AC policy in preparation for these requirements 
would ensure that all air conditioner replacements in the next few years have two-way heating and cooling 
capabilities and comply with BAAD’s ruling. This would prevent homeowners from installing outdated gas 
appliances for heating and cooling, which could be replaced by a single heat pump. 
Additionally, the difference between a central AC and a two-way heat pump is essentially zero (from a 
$1,000 savings to a $1,000 cost) especially after the applied $1,500 rebate from Peninsula Clean Energy. 
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) also offers on-bill financing through the Zero Percent Loan program11 to 
cover the up-front costs of installing a heat pump, which leads to utility bill savings over time due to 
appliance efficiency. This financing model can be particularly advantageous for low-income tenants who 
might not have access to traditional financing options. It removes the need for credit checks and upfront 
payments, making energy efficiency upgrades more accessible. Additionally, on-bill financing can be an 
effective way for tenants and landlords to manage payment responsibilities for energy efficiency 
upgrades. Tenants could enjoy the benefits of lower utility costs, without being tied to a load if they move 
(because the payment is tied to the meter rather than a person) and the landlord can improve their 
building without needing to pay an upfront cost.12 
A Flex Path reach code is also cost-effective by providing a range of retrofits and upgrades that building 
owners can choose from, allowing them to pick the most cost-effective and efficient options. Based on a 
conducted cost analysis conducted by the Local Codes and Standards team, each check list item would 
need to be demonstrated to have cost savings over the lifespan of the upgrade. Figure 3 shows some of 
the cost-effective strategies for the City of San Mateo based on the 2022 Title 24 Building Code. Heat 
pumps provide the most cost-effective solutions, often paying back in 6-7 years. Furthermore, many 
homeowners may receive additional savings through incentives provided by PCE, the State (Tech rebates) 
or the Inflation Reduction Act. 
11 Peninsula Clean Energy. 2025. 0% financing & rebates. Available: https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/residential/financing/
12 United States Department of Energy. Issue Brief: Low-income Energy Efficiency Financing through On-Bill Tariff Programs. Available: IB L-I EE 
Financing through On-Bill Tariffs_Final_0.pdf
1015 of 1111

--- page 1016 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
12
Figure 3
Cost Effective Existing Building Upgrades (Cost Effectiveness Explorer)
Both the Two-Way AC and Flex Path policies emphasize cost-efficient solutions for both the short and long 
term, ensuring that the City maintains equitable and sustainable practices.
Policy Findings
Both a Two-Way AC policy and Flex Path policy promote cost-efficient and equitable solutions for building 
decarbonization. Implementing these policies would help the City achieve meaningful greenhouse gas 
reductions, get closer to climate goals, prepare the community for future regulations,  and support 
residents in making energy-efficient upgrades. Both of these policies fit with the community feedback 
received by pursuing climate action and decarbonization policies but being sensitive to cost impacts, the 
need for flexibility, and reliability/resilience. 
Policy Option 3: Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD’s 
Zero NOx requirements 
Description
BAAD will require zero NOx (currently the only options for Zero NOx appliances are all-electric) appliances 
for water heating by 2027 and space heating by 2029. This policy bans the sale of qualifying NOx -emitting 
appliances in the Bay Area, requiring all-electric appliances when covered gas appliances are replaced. 
Option 3 has the greatest potential to achieve GHG reductions and the goals outlined in the City’s CAP by 
moving faster than the 2027 and 2029 timelines outlined by BAAD. However, it could also result in higher 
upfront costs especially for space heating. Under this policy the City would adopt and implement a local 
version of the BAAD zero N0x threshold ahead of the current schedule to require all new space and water 
heating to have zero NOx emissions, and therefore, zero GHG emissions. 
This ‘time of replacement’ ordinance would require the replacement of gas water heaters and space 
heaters with zero NOx versions when they fail or are voluntarily upgraded. This approach maximizes the 
lifespan of the existing gas appliances and reduces the cost of compliance as the increased cost would 
only be the difference between a gas appliance and the upgraded electric appliance. Focusing on time-of-
replacement is the most cost-effective approach for the building owner. Furthermore, since these 
1016 of 1111

--- page 1017 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
13
appliances may function for dozens of years, it also is the timeliest option to replace gas appliances with 
electric-run appliances instead of locking in emissions from natural-gas appliances which could potentially 
continue to operate past the City’s target for carbon neutrality. 
Policy Pros: 
•
Community and workforce prepared for 2027 and 2029 BAAD requirements
•
On-bill savings for homes that go all-electric 
•
Largest GHG emissions reduction potential 
Policy Cons:
•
Higher upfront costs for residents for home electrification
•
Uncertainty of incentives 
•
Some homes may face electrical upgrades (panels or service lines) that increase costs and lengthen 
timelines for replacement 
Other Cities and Legislative Drivers
The BAAD requirements will be implemented in 2027 and 2029 and getting ahead of the ruling offers an 
opportunity to have the highest GHG impact. Currently, there are no jurisdictions who have adopted this 
policy for existing buildings. 
Greenhouse Gas Reductions Potential 
A zero NOx equipment requirement policy would have the most significant impact on greenhouse gas 
reductions with the ability to reduce emissions an average of 9,700 MT CO2e per year by 2030 assuming 
a zero NOx policy was put in place for water heating and space heating in 2026 for residential/small 
commercial appliances and 2028 for larger commercial appliances. 
Community Feedback 
Feedback on this policy was largely unfavorable. In the community survey, 44% of respondents supported 
this policy option, 5% neutral, and 48% do not support. Those opposed were concerned about getting 
ahead of the Air District’s schedule and challenges with compliance and enforcement. Those who support 
this approach emphasize that this approach has the greatest GHG reduction potential. The Community 
Relations Commission was supportive of this policy pathway.
Cost Effectiveness and Equity Considerations 
Based on the initial cost study conducted for this project, a zero NOx policy median-cost scenario could 
increase water heating incremental costs by $3,200 and space heating incremental costs by $11,778 
before rebates. However, between state, local, and federal incentives high income households could see 
an overall cost savings for water heaters and incremental costs of $5,878 dollars for space heating. When 
also considering the avoided cost of an AC unit (once it breaks down) from installing a two-way heat pump 
that acts as a furnace and an AC unit, then the incremental costs in a median-cost scenario for space 
heating would be $4,278 before rebates and incur cost savings with rebates. Similar conclusions were 
1017 of 1111

--- page 1018 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
14
found in another cost study done for BAAD.15 However, many of the incentives originally modeled for this 
analysis have changed or have uncertain futures, especially at the federal level. 
Similarly to Policy Option 2, residents could utilize on-bill financing from PCE to cover up-front costs of 
electric water heater or space heating appliances, utilizing a zero percent interest loan and repaying that 
installation cost over time via their utility bill.11 The PCE program fosters equitable installation of electric 
equipment and allows renters to enjoy the same energy savings as homeowners. However, the availability 
of rebates and incentives is volatile which could impact the cost-effectiveness of an electric-appliance 
mandate. 
Policy Findings 
A Zero NOx Equipment Requirements policy would achieve the highest greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction , mandating electric heat pump water heaters and furnaces ahead of the BAAD requirement. 
This policy offers a significant opportunity to reduce GHG emissions and capture appliance replacements 
over the next four years before BAAD’s mandate is fully implemented. Implementing this policy could 
potentially save residents money depending on the availability of rebates on water and space heating 
appliances. However, there are cases in which this policy could result in increased upfront costs for 
homeowners, which was the biggest concern identified in Phase II of engagement. The changing rebate 
landscape also makes it difficult to understand how costs will change over time. Due to the polarized 
community feedback, with some constituents being unsupportive of mandates, it may be difficult to 
garner public buy in for a Zero NOx Equipment Requirement policy. 
Policy Option 4: Commercial Building Performance Standards 
Description 
Option 4 introduces new policy standards for commercial buildings (Building Performance Standards) 
aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, decarbonizing commercial buildings as a phased 
efficiency-focused approach. In comparison to relatively homogonous residential buildings, commercial 
buildings can be highly variable in their systems and needs. Commercial building heating and cooling 
systems are also frequently oversized, meaning replacing existing gas equipment in a like for like manner 
with electric equipment is not economical. Process loads also vary significantly across commercial building 
types. For these reasons, decarbonizing commercial buildings necessitates a flexible approach where 
building managers can first make strides towards understanding their buildings and cost-effective 
opportunities before committing to a specific approach. Typically, a BPS Program is implemented in 
phases where buildings first report energy use for several years (benchmarking), then perform a retro-
commissioning process to identify opportunities before finally reducing emissions below an established 
threshold (performance standard). 
•
Phase I: Benchmarking (Years 1-2): This initial phase establishes a building’s energy performance 
baseline by comparing its energy use intensity (EUI) to similar buildings. Covered Buildings (buildings 
and properties with buildings totaling the specified size threshold or larger) report their annual energy 
usage in Energy Star Portfolio Manager. The data collected in the benchmarking phase improves 
15 BAAD. 2024. Installation Costs for Zero-NOx Space and Water Heating Appliances. Available: 
https://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/community-health/building-appliance-implementation/task1_electrificationcosts-
pdf.pdf?rev=3cb66a09f3094f94b35fa7fc90cfd4ec&sc_lang=en
1018 of 1111

--- page 1019 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
15
building manager and City understanding of building energy usage and will inform GHG-emissions 
performance standards. Benchmarking also identifies underperforming facilities and prioritizes 
improvements, with studies showing benchmarked buildings achieve average annual energy savings 
of 2.4 percent.17
•
Phase II: Retro-commissioning (Years 3-4): Retro-commissioning is a process through which a 
building’s energy consuming systems are analyzed for efficiency and proper operation. The retro-
commissioning process serves two primary purposes. The first is to uncover inefficient operations, 
increase energy efficiency, and save building owners money. The second is to identify cost-effective 
opportunities to reduce building GHG emissions through electrification and energy efficiency.
•
Phase III: Performance Standard (Year 4+): Jurisdictions set phased energy or emissions targets for 
GHG reductions over time on a square feet basis. The targets are based on data collected from the 
benchmarking phase and can be met through a variety of retrofits, such as upgrades, electrification, 
or renewable energy adoption. The most cost-efficient retrofits for each building were identified in 
the retro-commissioning phase. Standards often allow flexible compliance paths, such as achieving 
specific EUI thresholds or offsetting emissions via clean energy investments. 
Policy Pros: 
•
BPS approach addresses a high degree of variability in commercial building types by focusing on 
performance-based requirements
•
Phased approach allows for structured guidance for facility managers, uncovering cost savings over 
time
•
Focuses on worst performing buildings first
•
Reduces pressure on harder to electrify equipment types (e.g. gas stoves) through phased approach, 
longer runway for electric equipment to become widely available and cost-effective on-market 
•
Robust programming examples from Cities who have already implemented 
•
Tiers off of existing State energy disclosure laws (AB 802)
Policy Cons:
•
Necessitates new staff time and staff members to implement and track BPS 
•
Does not guarantee all-electric end usage in short term until phased retro commissioning phase, 
potentially missing some appliances that could be electrified 
•
Limited building stock reach, best suited to large commercial buildings (for example buildings >25,000 
sq ft)
•
Possibility to have equity implications from increased rents in multifamily if tenant protections are 
not integrated into the policy 
Other Cities and Legislative Drivers
Commercial Building Performance Standards are already mandated by California’s statewide building 
energy benchmarking and public disclosure law (AB 802), which require owners of commercial and 
17 National Association of State Energy Officials. 2025. Benchmarking and Building Performance Standards. Available: 
https://www.naseo.org/issues/buildings/benchmarking
1019 of 1111

--- page 1020 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
16
multifamily buildings 50,000 square feet or larger to annually benchmark and report their whole-building 
energy usage to the California Energy Commission. A City BPS could implement the same threshold as the 
state or have a more stringent threshold including buildings with a smaller square footage. 
•
Compared to other policy approaches listed here, building performance standards are a well-
established policy mechanism that has been adopted by many local governments including the City 
of San Jose, City of San Francisco, and City of Brisbane. City of Brisbane Building Efficiency Program 
passed in 2019, requires annual energy and water benchmarking and reporting, and compliance with 
Beyond requirements to show that they are high performing, or improving performance for 
commercial buildings 10,000 SF and larger.19
•
City of San Jose’s Energy and Water Building Performance Ordinance passed in 2018 and requires 
commercial and multifamily buildings above 20,000 square feet to annually benchmark and report 
their energy and water usage. Beginning in 2023, building have been required to meet energy and 
water efficiency standards on a rolling five-year basis.20 
Greenhouse Gas Reductions Potential 
Commercial building space makes up over 39 million square feet within the City with 44 percent and 30 
percent coming from space and water heating respectively. The building performance standard would 
likely not result in significant GHG emissions reductions before 2030 due to the phased in nature of the 
program. However, 83,660 MT CO2e were generated by commercial buildings in 2019 These emissions 
could be reduced by 2045 depending on the final thresholds adopted by the City.21 
Community Feedback 
Across engagement events, community members were supportive of a BPS policy. In the community 
survey, approximately 58% of respondents were supportive of a BPS policy, 12% neutral, and 29% do not 
support.  The Senior Advisory Commission, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and Community 
Relations Commission were supportive of this policy pathway.
During our direct outreach to building owners and developers, respondents understood the importance 
of a BPS policy and made suggestions of how to set thresholds to be most efficient and minimize 
unnecessary costs like setting individual reductions targets measured against a buildings own emissions 
rather than a City average and including a vintage threshold to exclude new buildings which are already 
more efficient. Building owners also shared that limited physical space for electric equipment upgrades 
and complicated tenant lease structures would be challenges to implementation that building owners 
would need guidance navigating. 
Cost Effectiveness and Equity Considerations 
The cost of decarbonizing buildings under a Building Performance Standard (BPS) policy varies significantly 
based on factors such as building age, equipment types, and energy end uses. This variability necessitates 
19 https://www.brisbaneca.org/bbep
20 https://www.sanjoseca.gov/your-government/departments-offices/environmental-services/climate-smart-san-jos/energy-and-water-
building-performance-ordinance
21 City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan (Page 41) https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/93755/Climate-Action-Plan-2024-
Update?bidId= 
1020 of 1111

--- page 1021 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
17
a flexible, performance-based approach, allowing owners to prioritize cost-effective solutions tailored to 
their assets. The BPS framework’s phased implementation mitigates financial burdens:
•
Benchmarking identifies inefficiencies (e.g., leaks, malfunctioning systems) and establishes a baseline 
for improvement. Benchmarking reporting costs approximately $3,000 annually.
•
Retro-commissioning pinpoints low-cost operational optimizations (e.g., HVAC adjustments, controls 
recalibration), which typically yield 16% energy savings at an average cost of $0.30/sq. ft., often with 
payback periods under two years.
•
Performance standards are deferred for 4+ years post-benchmarking, enabling strategic capital 
planning for equipment replacements and system upgrades.
Electrification of commercial building electric retrofits will likely have to be paired with a suite of demand 
management, energy efficiency, or renewable energy projects in order to make building electrification 
economical for building owners. Specific cost-effective system upgrades include heat pump rooftop 
package units, which are the most promising electrification solution for commercial building 
electrification, offering a replicable model for a 1:1 equipment swap-out.25 Analysis from PCE found that 
for these easy to electrify units (packaged/split units with both heating and cooling) the marginal costs to 
upgrade to an all-electric packaged or split heat pump system were found to be negligible as shown in 3.
Figure 4
PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan Rooftop Package Unit Marginal Cost Analysis
Equity is addressed by allowing building-specific compliance pathways and avoiding prescriptive 
mandates that could disproportionately burden older or under-resourced properties. There are additional 
equity implications when considering multifamily housing which could exacerbate disparities and lead to 
rent increases if not properly designed. Key considerations for equitable BPS implementation include anti-
25 Rocky Mountain Institute. 2022. Medium-Size Commercial Retrofits. Available: https://rmi.org/insight/economics-of-electrifying-buildings-
medium-size-commercial-retrofits/
1021 of 1111

--- page 1022 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
18
displacement measures for buildings that receive any City subsidy, incentive, or funding. Equity 
implications and design measures for multifamily are still being investigated. Due to the phased in nature 
of this program, those considerations can be addressed over time, but before thresholds for reductions 
are finalized (year 4+). 
Policy Findings 
A BPS policy builds on state legislation and addresses a large source of emissions reductions. There is 
overall community support and flexible and cost-efficient implementation. However, a BPS policy 
obligates a significant amount of staff time. Therefore, for efficient implementation, the City could set a 
threshold that would maximize the captured square footage while minimizing the number of impacted 
building owners. A threshold that initially only applies to buildings greater than 50,000 square feet (which 
are already mandated to report benchmarking data under AB 802) would ensure the City’s building stock 
is complying with state law and allow the City to understand the benchmarking process without a 
significant staff burden. 
Policy Option 5: Municipal Electric First Policy 
Description 
This policy establishes a mechanism for local government renovations to go ‘electric first’. This means that 
new appliance purchases, renovations, and replacements should prioritize using all-electric equipment. 
This policy would also allow for technical and cost infeasibility on a project-level when an all-electric 
alternative is either not available or deemed infeasible due to cost. The main purpose of the policy is to 
position the City as the leader in decarbonization within the community as well as prepare City facilities 
for upcoming requirements. The City would also learn best practices through this approach which it can 
share with the community and electrified city facilities would serve as demonstration buildings to highlight 
the comfort, health, and safety benefits of going all-electric. 
Policy Pros: 
•
Demonstrates City leadership in building electrification
•
Availability of significant local government incentives to electrify through Peninsula Clean Energy’s 
Gov BE and Willdan GK12 program 
•
Existing resources available through County of San Mateo including staff report, model code language, 
and case studies
•
Prepares City for future requirements while incentives are available
•
Lower operating costs 
Policy Cons:
•
Limited reach as policy only covers municipal buildings 
Other Cities and Legislative Drivers
Some other jurisdictions who have implemented this policy include:
1022 of 1111

--- page 1023 ---
City of San Mateo
Electrify San Mateo: Policy Pathways Analysis
19
•
City of Mountain View: Municipal Green Building Policy (2020): requires analysis of opportunities for 
electrification upon major upgrade of City-owned buildings, and develops a minimum of LEED Gold 
for new construction.27
•
City of San Diego: Zero Emissions Municipal Buildings and Operations Policy (2022): any time a natural 
gas burning system is being replaced, requires the new equipment to be electric.28
Greenhouse Gas Reductions Potential 
In 2005 municipal natural gas use was 86,096 therms which equates to approximately 586 MT CO2e 
annually after accounting for natural gas leakage. If fully implemented, the electric first policy would aim 
to reduce these emissions over time as equipment needed replacement. The total reductions by 2030 and 
2045 would depend on the availability of all-electric replacements and the rate of equipment failure. 
Community Feedback 
Across community engagement events, there was broad support for this policy option. In the community 
survey, approximately 60% of respondents were supportive of this policy option, 15% neutral, and 24% 
do not support. Multiple constituents and building owners expressed a desire for the City to better 
understand the permitting process and technical implications, which would be achieved if the City led first 
by example. The Senior Advisory Commission, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, and 
Community Relations Commission were supportive of this policy pathway.
Cost Effectiveness and Equity Considerations 
This policy enables the City to conduct a comprehensive feasibility assessment to evaluate the cost 
differentials between electrification and gas equipment replacement for municipal facilities. By 
incorporating exemptions for projects demonstrating technical or financial infeasibility, the policy ensures 
a targeted approach to identifying the most cost-effective energy upgrades, consistent with 
methodologies applied to commercial buildings. Implementation costs will vary based on building-specific 
factors, including system age, infrastructure readiness, and operational requirements.
As these facilities are City-owned, the municipality retains full decision-making authority over capital 
expenditures, eliminating potential equity concerns that might arise in privately owned housing or 
commercial properties. Furthermore, since many City owned facilities are used by the public such as 
libraries or park properties, creating healthier and more comfortable spaces while lowering operational 
costs provide an equity benefit to the community. This approach ensures alignment with both fiscal 
responsibility and the City’s broader decarbonization objectives. 
Policy Findings
The adoption of a Municipal Electric First Policy establishes a process to systematically evaluate 
electrification opportunities during renovations and new projects for City-owned facilities. This policy 
aligns with the City’s climate goals while providing data-driven insights into cost and feasibility, enabling 
informed decision-making for future building decarbonization efforts. Furthermore, the municipal 
electrification first policy saw general support throughout the community engagement process. 
27 https://www.mountainview.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/790/637940944813700000
28 https://www.sandiego.gov/sites/default/files/zero_emissions_municipal_buildings_operations_policy.pdf 
1023 of 1111

--- page 1024 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
66 Franklin Street, Suite 300
Oakland, California 94607
 510-834-4455
www.rinconconsultants.com
June 16, 2025
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Via email: achow@cityofsanmateo.org
Subject:
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement for Electrify City of San Mateo
A major component of the Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Buildings Strategy is a robust community 
engagement process. This project aims to create an actionable roadmap with steps for City of San Mateo 
to electrify buildings based on effectiveness and equity criteria, cost-effectiveness, best available science 
and data, and community feedback. Community outreach and public input are fundamental to shaping 
effective, equitable, and successful decarbonization policies. This memorandum summarizes the 
engagement conducted by both City staff and Rincon Consultants between Spring 2023 and Spring 2025.
Executive Summary of all Outreach 
Outreach has been conducted in two phases to understand community priorities, concerns, and needed 
support for successful policy implementation. During Phase I of engagement, the City presented at 
multiple meetings to gather feedback on the equity and effectiveness criteria and educate the 
community about costs and benefits of building electrification. This included a meeting with the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, a City Council meeting, five General Plan Town Hall 
meetings, and an online survey. After Phase I of engagement, the initial suite of policy pathways was 
narrowed down to five policy pathways to advance existing building electrification within San Mateo. 
Phase II of engagement aimed at further refining these priority policies for inclusion within the final 
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Buildings Strategy. During Phase II, the community engagement efforts 
included an in-person workshop and an additional virtual workshop for community members which 
focused on the five policy pathways, a virtual information session on Building Performance Standards for 
commercial building owners, presentations at City Commissions and community and stakeholder 
meetings, and an online survey. 
Throughout the community engagement process, there have been polarized responses to building 
electrification. While most constituents care about addressing the climate crisis and agree that the City 
should pursue existing building electrification in some form, many residents also expressed concerns. 
The primary constituent values identified during Phase I and Phase II engagement that are motivating 
building electrification included:
•
Urgent need to address the climate crisis is a priority issue
•
Health and air quality benefits of building decarbonization
•
Need for local action and the City to act now
•
Availability of electric equipment incentives and rebates to support property owners 
1024 of 1111

--- page 1025 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
2
The primary concerns identified during Phase I and Phase II engagement included: 
•
Upfront costs of electric equipment 
•
On-bill or operational costs of electric equipment
•
Installation and electrical infrastructure challenges
•
Grid reliability and resilience
•
Lack of education surrounding electrification 
In general, the results of the community outreach conducted by the City point to a general desire to 
address climate change and decarbonize buildings tempered by concerns about cost and feasibility. 
Based on these findings, a focus on policies that support decarbonization when cost effective and 
efficient while providing flexible alternatives for particularly challenging cases should be prioritized. 
Below is a detailed summary of outcomes and themes from each engagement event. A record of public 
comments and photos is listed at the end of this memorandum.
Community Engagement Phase I: Community Concerns and 
Values 
During Phase I of engagement, the City held multiple events to gather feedback on the equity and 
effectiveness criteria and educate the community about costs and benefits of building electrification. The 
goal of this phase was to both provide information to the community on what building electrification is 
and why the City is pursuing it, as well as learn about the core values and concerns the community has 
around upgrading their homes and businesses. This included a meeting with the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission, a meeting with the Equity and Inclusion Task Force, a City Council meeting, 
five General Plan Town Hall meetings, and an online survey.
General Plan Town Hall Meetings
In Fall of 2023, five General Plan Town Hall meetings were held to solicit feedback on the City’s General 
Plan Update. The General Plan Town Hall events were in-person events located throughout the 
community, one event in each of San Mateo’s five districts. At each outreach event, doors opened at 5:30 
pm to allow attendees to view poster boards (example at end of memorandum) on various topics 
(circulation, land use, safety, noise, etc.) with a formal presentation on the Draft General Plan at 7:00 pm. 
An average of 60 community members attended each event.
The project team had a poster board summarizing the Sustainable Buildings Strategy project effort. 
Community members were very engaged at the Sustainable Buildings Strategy poster board. Staff 
received a mix of both supportive feedback for working on electrification requirements as well as 
concerns about costs related to electrification. 
Diversity Equity and Inclusion Task Force Presentation 
On September 22, 2023, presented to the City’s Diversity Equity and Inclusion Task Force. Feedback from 
the Task Force included: the need to include education, data, and storytelling in outreach. The Task 
Force’s biggest concerns regarding electrification were related to the electric power outages and costs 
1025 of 1111

--- page 1026 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
3
to homeowners. The Task Force also helped identify follow up opportunities for partnerships and project 
outreach.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Meeting
At the September 13, 2023 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting, staff and the 
consultant team presented the building inventory and market segmentation analysis as well as building 
electrification cost analysis. Over 120 written public comments were submitted for the item with the 
majority in support of decarbonization. 24 verbal comments were also provided at the meeting. 
Proponents of decarbonization support electrification policy efforts to reduce gas use in the community 
to combat climate change, improve air quality, and improve health. Proponents also encouraged the 
leveraging of incentives and rebates for electrification.1 For those opposed, the number one concern 
about electrification is the costs to the property owner. Other concerns include power outages, growth 
of the grid to accommodate future electric buildings, and passed on costs to renters. 
Survey
The project team also launched an online survey to assess community priorities for building 
electrification that was open December 2023 through January 10, 2024. Results of the online survey were 
shared at the January 16, 2024 City Council Study Session. A summary of the survey results is included 
below. The survey had a total of 194 respondents from a wide range of socioeconomic backgrounds as 
shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2 . 
1 San Mateo, City of. 2023. Public Comments Submitted for the August 9, 2023 SIC Meeting. Available: 
https://sanmateo.primegov.com/Portal/viewer?id=9062&type=2. 
1026 of 1111

--- page 1027 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
4
Figure 1
Household Income of Survey Respondents 
1027 of 1111

--- page 1028 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
5
Figure 2
Race of Survey Respondents 
The Phase I survey primarily focused on what priorities and concerns the community had relating to 
buildings and building decarbonization. As shown in Figure 3, affordable energy costs was the highest-
ranking quality for San Mateo Buildings, followed by a tie between Health and Safety and Resilience. 
Climate and sustainability ranked fourth followed by Modern Appliances and Functionality. 
Respondents also provided feedback on their biggest concerns regarding building electrification in San 
Mateo. Figure 4 shows that increasing energy bills was the largest concern relating to building 
electrification. This concern was followed by concern over increased housing/rent costs as the second 
most common concern. Respondents also ranked difficulty in accessing rebates (3rd) and building 
electrification ignoring other more pressing building issues (4th) as primary issues that would need to be 
addressed. 
1028 of 1111

--- page 1029 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
6
Figure 3
Survey Respondents Most Important Building Qualities
1029 of 1111

--- page 1030 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
7
Figure 4
Concerns Relating to Building Electrification in San Mateo
 
These survey results highlighted major concerns of building electrification of both upfront and on-bill 
cost, reliability concerns, and challenges accessing the funding and financing opportunities meant to 
decrease the cost of electrification. These topics were carried through into Phase II of outreach as the 
project team worked to refine the policy options based on community feedback. 
1030 of 1111

--- page 1031 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
8
City Council Meeting 
In January of 2024, Rincon Consultants and City staff provided a presentation to City Council on the Phase 
I results. The presentation focused on the results of the building segmentation analysis, cost analysis, 
engagement to date, and initial policy recommendations. During this meeting five policy options were 
provided for City Council feedback including: 
1.
Continue adopted reach codes and focus on outreach and incentives (Business as Usual)
2.
Explore and adopt new reach codes to encourage and require electrification 
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of the Bay Area Air District’s Zero NOx 
requirements 
4.
Establish Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings 
5.
Adopt an electric-first policy for City facilities 
City Council provided feedback which included direction for City Staff to continue exploring the 
feasibility, cost, and community support for each of the five options. 
Community Engagement Phase II: Policy Pathways Feedback
Following direction from City Council, City staff with support from Rincon Consultants, conducted 
additional outreach on the five policy strategies presented to City Council during Phase I. Phase II 
outreach events included an in-person community workshop, virtual community workshop, virtual 
meeting with commercial building owners, presentations to community and developer groups, and 
several upcoming Commission meetings. A second survey was also developed and distributed through 
these and other City channels. The second survey was developed to get more detailed information about 
support for/concern around the five policy pathways. 
Each community meeting and survey was advertised to the community through multiple avenues 
including the City’s social media channels, e-newsletter, and at City events, and to individuals who 
attended prior events. 
The following sections detail the feedback received from the community during each engagement 
opportunity. 
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting 
Feedback Meeting Summary 
The in-person community feedback meeting was advertised to the community through multiple avenues 
including the City’s social media channels, City e-newsletter, and direct emails. There were 20 attendees. 
The in-person community feedback meeting took place on March 5th, 2025 from 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
at the San Mateo Public Library. The goals of the meeting were for participants to:
1)
Understand the definition and importance of existing building electrification in the context of climate 
change and the City of San Mateo’s climate goals
2)
Note an overview and timeline of the City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy
3)
Recognize previously shared concerns and solutions about existing building electrification 
1031 of 1111

--- page 1032 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
9
4)
Be introduced to the five policy options and how each would impact the community 
5)
Share community feedback on the policy options through an interactive “Sailboat” Activity and 
Voting Activity 
A total of 25 community members attended the feedback meeting. City of San Mateo Sustainability 
Analyst, Andrea Chow, began the meeting and introduced Ryan Gardener, Director of Climate Action 
and Adaptation at Rincon Consultants, who gave a 25-minute presentation on goals one through four 
described above. Community members had the opportunity to ask questions a various points during the 
presentation. 
After the presentation, community members were split into three groups to participate in the Sailboat 
Activity facilitated by a City or Rincon staff member. Each group contained a variety of members 
including industry professionals like contractors, climate activists, students, and renters and 
homeowners who have electrified portions of their own homes. The Sailboat Activity helped community 
members brainstorm electrification challenges and support solutions to help the City achieve its 
decarbonization goals. The activity featured a poster board with a sailboat heading for an island while 
being supported by wind and held back by an anchor. The island represents the City’s decarbonization 
goals, the anchor represents barriers and challenges keeping the City from achieving its goals, and the 
wind represents various policy and support solutions to help the City reach its goals. Using post-it notes, 
participants were asked to first brainstorm various “anchors” or barriers to success. Then, participants 
were asked to brainstorm various solutions, or “wind”, to overcome such “anchors”. The activity lasted 
approximately 25 minutes.
After the Sailboat Activity, community members were asked to participate in a final Voting Activity 
where they used post-its on a large posterboard to vote for as many of the five policy options that they 
would support the City adopt. There was also a “do nothing” option where participants could show that 
they did not support any electrification policy. Any community member who voted and left their email 
on a post-it was entered into a raffle for the chance to win one $50 visa gift card. 
Key results from each activity are included below, and a full record of all activity responses and photos 
are included in the Appendix. 
Sailboat Activity Themes 
Between the three groups, participants shared 30 “anchor” comments and 41 “wind” comments. Overall, 
the main concerns in the “anchor” category included costs, lack of education, grid reliability, equity, 
supply issues, and resistant social factors. The main support requested in the “wind” category included 
cost savings, education and outreach, grid reliability, equity programs, adequate supply, and a changing 
market. Below is a summary of comments in each section. 
Anchor Comments
1)
Cost
a.
Unexpected upgrades
b.
Expensive quotes
c.
Speed of installation
d.
$52,000 to fully electrify and $30k to $40k in rebates 
1032 of 1111

--- page 1033 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
10
e.
Uncertainty of federal incentives
2)
Lack of Education 
f.
Complicated topic 
g.
Confusing software
h.
Confusing permitting process
i.
Lack of communication between City departments 
3)
Grid Reliability 
j.
Unexpected utility shut offs
k.
Demand response software
l.
Emergencies 
4)
Equity 
m. Unclear how renters fit into electrification
n.
Concerns with mandates
5)
Supply issues
o.
Equipment availability
p.
Contractor availability 
6)
Social factors: people and industries are resistant/ have a fear of change
q.
Loss of aesthetics (fireplaces, etc.) 
r.
Perception of convenience/ procrastination 
s.
Too many setup variations (space, house layout)
Wind Comments
1)
Cost Savings
a.
We need incentives – Credits & Rebates, lower interest loans and On bill loans (PG&E) 
b.
We need to waive city building permit fees for electric upgrades 
c.
Operation Cost – Gas, Water, Heater is more expensive 
d.
Cost of Rebuilding after disaster is way more
e.
Solar + Batteries + All Electric = Lower energy costs 
f.
Better health – Lower medical bills 
2)
Education/ Outreach Programs 
g.
Home Tours – Peer to Peer Education (led by non-profits)
h.
Collaborate and share solutions with other jurisdiction (like Cupertino or San Carlos) 
i.
Need a “Vision” to strive for and rally behind 
j.
Volunteer Advisor Program 
k.
Residential education on AC & Heat Pumps
l.
Collaboration between contractors, City, residents, and non-profits
1033 of 1111

--- page 1034 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
11
m. Targeted marketing to those who already have solar/ those who installed an appliance 10 years 
back 
n.
Contractor training 
o.
Communications tool to consider upgrade costs specific to home insulation, wiring return flow 
ducts
p.
Education about climate benefits, health benefits, safety benefits
q.
Electrification Starter Pack 
r.
Peninsula Clean Energy Help Desk
s.
Advertising/ signage for electrified homes with QR code to more resources 
t.
Need data about what works and what hasn’t 
3)
Grid reliability 
u.
Solar + Batteries + All Electric = Resiliency
4)
Equity Programs 
v.
Support for renters
w. Credits people of color 
x.
0% interest rate or community fund for people with low income 
5)
Supply chain 
y.
Need guaranteed supply of the incentivized electrified appliances
z.
Need service availability
6)
Social factors: changing market
aa. When the electric appliances perform better, they will be more attractive than gas
bb. Gas exposure causes health problems 
cc. Green homes
Voting Activity Results 
There was support for the following policy options:
1)
Business as Usual: 0 supporters
2)
Reach Codes for Renovations: 9 supporters
3)
Zero NOx Equipment: 14 supporters
4)
Commercial Building Performance Standard: 11 supporters
5)
Municipal Electric First Policy: 11 supporters 
6)
Do Nothing: 0 supporters
1034 of 1111

--- page 1035 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
12
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting
Feedback Meeting Summary 
The virtual community feedback meeting took place on March 13th, 2025 from 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. via 
Zoom to provide an alternative time to the in-person meeting for community members to actively 
engage with the policy feedback process. The goals and meeting format were the same as the in-person 
event. 11community members participated in the virtual feedback meeting. 
Andrea Chow and Ryan Gardner facilitated the meeting. After the 25-minute presentation, community 
members participated in the same Sailboat Activity as the in-person meeting but in a virtual format. 
Participants remained in one large group using the engagement software Mural. Community members 
could enter comments into the Mural board themselves or leave comments in the chat or unmute 
themselves and leave verbal comments for Rincon staff to add onto the Mural board on their behalf. 
After the Sailboat Activity, community members were asked to take an exit poll to vote for as many of 
the five policy options that they would support the City adopt. There was also a “do nothing” option 
where participants could show that they did not support any electrification policy. Any community 
member who voted was entered into a raffle for the chance to win one $50 visa gift card. 
Key results from the virtual Sailboat Activity and exit poll are included below, and a full record of all 
activity responses, meeting chat, and photos are included in the Appendix. 
Sailboat Activity Themes 
Participants shared 9 “anchor” comments and 12 “wind” comments. Overall, the main 
concerns in the “anchor” category included costs, lack of education, grid reliability, 
technology and engineering challenges, equity, and legislative red tape. The main 
support requested in the “wind” category included: cost savings, education, equity, and 
technology solutions. Below is a summary of comments in each section. 
Anchor Comments
1)
Cost
a.
Large percentage of buildings that cannot replace at end of life at a reasonable cost
2)
Lack of education 
b.
Lack of information and support for implementation
c.
Lack of cohesive city support for resident transitions
3)
Grid reliability 
d.
power outages/ need grid resiliency
4)
Technology and engineering challenges
e.
lack of drop-in products (40G small diameter water heater will not be available for another 
few years)
f.
difficult targets are multifamily homes in City of San Mateo are not well suited for heat pump 
upgrades. Electrical power is an issue, as requirements for engineered solutions
1035 of 1111

--- page 1036 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
13
5)
Equity
g.
Rent increases in multifamily
6)
Legislative red tape
h.
PG&E policies against solar
Wind Comments
1)
Cost savings 
a.
Start with low hanging fruit 
b.
must identify easy targets where building envelope is more important than heat pumps
2)
Education 
c.
Peer coaching 
d.
Collaboration with San Mateo County Heat Pump Advocates 
e.
Need info on total GHG reductions for each option 
f.
Work together with manufacturers of electric equipment
g.
Watt diets 
h.
Learn form other Bay Area cities 
3)
Equity 
i.
Tie incentives to renter protections 
j.
exemptions for difficult cases
4)
Technology solutions 
k.
Saddle mounts and "copper" battery powered stoves
Exit Poll Results 
Of the five people voted and entered their emails, there was support for the following policy options:
1)
Business as Usual: 2 supporters
2)
Reach Codes for Renovations: 3 supporters
3)
Zero NOx Equipment: 0 supporters
4)
Commercial Building Performance Standard: 2 supporters
5)
Municipal Electric First Policy: 1 supporters 
6)
Do Nothing: 1 supporters
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Feedback Meeting Summary
The San Mateo United Homeowners Association (SMUHA) meets regularly to coordinate efforts 
between neighborhood and homeowner associations. The project team presented at the March 20th 
meeting at 7pm. There were 10 attendees.
1036 of 1111

--- page 1037 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
14
Results and Themes 
Similar to other feedback, most attendees voiced concern about the potential costs to property owners 
and the potential for costs to be passed on to renters. There was discussion of grid resilience and PG&E 
power safety shut offs. Most attendees were opposed to the City moving too quickly on building 
electrification policy. 
Commercial Building Performance Standard Information Session 
Feedback Meeting Summary 
The virtual Commercial BPS Information Session was advertised to building owners with buildings above 
50,000 square feet through email. City staff spoke at the Chamber of Commerce Public Policy Group and 
Chamber of Commerce Developers Roundtable to promote this event. The City and Rincon Consultants 
created a BPS 1-pager explaining the relevance of the policy to distribute to building owners (available at 
end of this memorandum). 
The virtual Commercial BPS Information Session took place on April 10th, 2025 from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 
a.m. over zoom. The goals of the meeting were for participants to:
1)
Learn about the importance of a Building Performance Standard in the context of the City’s climate 
goals and legislation advancing a BPS across the state
2)
Note an overview and timeline of the City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy
3)
Learn about the phased implementation process of a Building Performance Standard
4)
Share feedback, concerns, and ask questions about the policy
A total of six building owners attended the information session. City of San Mateo Sustainability Analyst, 
Andrea Chow, began the meeting and introduced Ryan Gardener, Director of Climate Action and 
Adaptation at Rincon Consultants, who gave a 25-minute presentation on goals one through three 
described above. After the presentation, building owners had the opportunity to share feedback, 
concerns, and ask questions about a potential BPS. 
Key results from the discussion are included below, and a full record of all activity responses and photos 
are included in the Appendix. 
Results and Themes 
Overall participants were thankful for the event as they were able to learn valuable information and share 
their feedback and desires for implementation of the policy. Several building owners from both retail and 
multi-family backgrounds shared insights as to how a BPS might affect them and the ways in which the 
policy thresholds could be structured to make implementation more successful. The main comments 
included:
1)
Setting a threshold based on an average of all commercial buildings (comparing old buildings to all-
electric, new construction) could skew the threshold to require old buildings to convert to all-electric 
which could be financially infeasible. One idea provided by an attendee was to set an individual 
threshold where buildings must reduce their emissions compared to their own historical emissions 
rather than meet a City or building type average.
1037 of 1111

--- page 1038 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
15
4)
Converting to electric appliances also creates a possible space issue as electric rooms are 
increasingly taking up more space and old buildings may not have room for it. Relocating equipment 
due to space limitations poses increased engineering and financial burdens. 
5)
For new construction that must meet the recent Title 24 requirements, can there be a vintage 
threshold to avoid unnecessary financial and time burden for buildings that are already well-
performing. 
6)
For landlords with complicated tenant and lease structures, landlords would need City support 
to navigate conversations with tenants and financial responsibility.
Survey 
Survey Summary 
An online survey was created to collect community feedback from those who were unable to participate 
in any of the other engagement events. It was shared broadly through City email listservs, social media, 
and during City events including the State of the City event. The survey was also advertised at the end of 
every engagement meeting so participants could share it with their networks. 
The Phase II survey aimed to gauge support for the five policy pathways while being brief and accessible. 
The survey provided a background on the project and its importance, defined the five policy options, and 
asked community members which of the policies they would support. Respondents could choose options 
“Do not support”, “Neutral”, “Support”, or “Not sure.” Respondents also had the opportunity to leave 
other feedback in a comment box. 
Results and Themes 
The survey had a total of 217 respondents from a wide range of socioeconomic backgrounds as shown in 
Figure 5and Figure 6. 
1038 of 1111

--- page 1039 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
16
Figure 5
Household Income of Survey Respondents 
1039 of 1111

--- page 1040 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
17
Figure 6
Race of Survey Respondents 
Of the five policy pathways, support for each policy was polarized with large percentages of constituents 
supporting and opposing each policy. The results of each policy are seen in Figure 7 through Figure 11 
below. Although answers were polarized, a majority of constituents supported policy options 1, 2, 4, and 
5. Policy option 3 was the only policy that had a majority “do not support” vote at 47.47% versus a 43.78% 
support vote. 
1040 of 1111

--- page 1041 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
18
Figure 7
Policy Option 1 Survey Results
1041 of 1111

--- page 1042 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
19
Figure 8
Policy Option 2 Survey Results
1042 of 1111

--- page 1043 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
20
Figure 9
Policy Option 3 Survey Results
1043 of 1111

--- page 1044 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
21
Figure 10 Policy Option 4 Survey Results
1044 of 1111

--- page 1045 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
22
Figure 11 Policy Option 5 Survey Results
Senior Advisory Commission
Feedback Meeting Summary
The project team presented to the Senior Advisory Commission on May 12, 2025. The Commissioners 
did not provide a formal policy recommendation and provided general feedback on the policy pathways. 
In general, the Commissioners agreed with the need to address climate through building decarbonization 
and electrification, but had reservations around requirements which could result in high upfront costs 
(specifically Policy Option 3) for those on fixed incomes.
Results and Themes 
•
Most commissioners not supportive of Policy Option 3 due to the potentially high upfront costs
•
Lots of discussion about upfront costs and concern for community members on a fixed income
•
General understanding and support of project goal and need to electrify
•
Some interest and discussion in Policy Option 4, one commissioner pointed out how this was 
adopted in a lot of other cities
•
Support of pursuing policy options along with providing resources and programs to help 
homeowners transition
•
Noted need for technical support especially for older folks with less understanding of new 
technologies 
1045 of 1111

--- page 1046 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
23
•
Commissioners were happy to see support options from Peninsula Clean Energy 
•
Two commissioners voiced support for Policy Option 1, 2, and 5
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
Feedback Meeting Summary
The project team presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on May 14, 2025. The 
Commission’s policy recommendation supported Policy Options  1, 2, 4, and 5 with consideration of 
additional engagement and/or hardship exemptions where needed.  
Results and Themes
•
Discussion of greenhouse gas emission impact of different measures
•
Discussion of City funds and other programs/resources to support homeowners in electrification 
transition noted support for other programs like sewer lateral replacements
•
Need for programs like PCE concierge services to support transition
•
Some interest in Policy Option 3 but worried about compliance and concern for timeline
•
Concerns over Policy 2 and 3 were primarily tied to potential for high costs in edge cases. 
•
Interest in hardship exemption language in future ordinances to help with cases that are hard-to-
electrify
•
Some commissioners noted the need to phase in Policy 4 to ensure the City understands the 
costs/feasibility of commercial electrification
•
Discussion of compliance challenges
Community Relations Commission
Feedback Meeting Summary
The project team presented to the Community Relations Commission on May 21 that included five 
Commissioners. The Commissioners made a unanimous motion to support all five policy pathways.
Results and Themes
•
Commissioner discussion of engagement and messaging about current resources, programs, and 
rebates. Pointed out how some community members do not access information online resources 
and the need for in-person presentations and other channels
•
Commissioner discussion of language access to resources and programs and the need for 
different programs based on income-level
•
Discussion of contractor workforce transition
1046 of 1111

--- page 1047 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
24
•
All commissioners supportive of the need for existing building decarbonization policies and 
commissioners made a motion to support all five policy pathways
Attachments
Attachment 1
General Plan Town Hall Meetings Poster Board
Attachment 2
In-person Feedback Meeting photos, comments, and voting board 
Attachment 3
Virtual Feedback Meeting Mural Board
Attachment 4
Building Performance Standard Marketing One Pager
1047 of 1111

--- page 1048 ---
Attachment 1
General Plan Town Hall Meetings Poster Board
1048 of 1111

--- page 1049 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
1-1
1049 of 1111

--- page 1050 ---
Attachment 2
In-person Feedback Meeting photos, comments, and voting board
1050 of 1111

--- page 1051 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
2-1
1051 of 1111

--- page 1052 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
2-2
1052 of 1111

--- page 1053 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
2-3
1053 of 1111

--- page 1054 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
2-4
1054 of 1111

--- page 1055 ---
Attachment 3
Virtual Feedback Meeting Mural Board, exit poll, and comments
1055 of 1111

--- page 1056 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
3-1
1056 of 1111

--- page 1057 ---
Attachment 4
Building Performance Standard Marketing One Pager 
1057 of 1111

--- page 1058 ---
City of San Mateo
Summary of Conducted Community Engagement
4-1
1058 of 1111

--- page 1059 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POST PACKET 
 
 PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
1059 of 1111

--- page 1060 ---
1
From:
GTL <
>
Sent:
Monday, June 16, 2025 9:11 AM
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Fw: (No Subject)
To: city clerk and all council members, 
City clerk, please include this letter for public view and for public records. Thank you, Gab T. Laughlin 
Sent with Proton Mail secure email.  
------- Forwarded Message ------- 
Date: On Saturday, June 14th, 2025 at 7:25 PM 
Subject: (No Subject) 
To: rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>, aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>, dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>, 
idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org <idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>, nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org 
<nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
CC: 
 
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council, 
The following is a stock letter and I am forwarding it to you since I agree with it. Please see message 
below this letter for my personal thoughts in addition to this stock letter:  
I am a local housing provider in your city, and I am concerned with the proposals to retrofit existing 
properties to all-electric systems.  
Conversion to all-electric is a major capital improvement that is very costly and complex. Mandating 
such a change should not be taken lightly without input from property owners and operators who will 
bear the cost of these new requirements. 
Should you continue with electrification of residential buildings, please consider the following: 
• The city should make funding available to help offset costs for the retrofit. This includes building
and permit fees and other expenses, such as potential loss of income during construction.
• The city should give property owners the maximum time allowed to comply.
• The city should not adopt additional restrictions or regulations on the rental housing market that
would make the retrofit even more cost-prohibitive or enact limitations that would constrain housing
providers’ control of their properties.
• The city should prioritize an incentive-based approach for phasing out natural gas appliances
instead of costly, unfunded mandates.
Property owners would be placed in the impossible position of being forced to make huge upfront 
investments – at a time when debt service costs are high – with little more than a hope of eventual 
modest cost savings. 
My concerns: 
1060 of 1111

--- page 1061 ---
2
 
It should not be mandated to retrofit all buildings and residential houses to use only electricity and 
not a combination of gas and electricity.  
 
There are not enough licensed electricians or contractors to do the job - retrofitting would be an 
impossible task for a home owner, housing provider and other businesses to do in a reasonable 
time. There is no regulations on costs an electrician would charge, and since demand would be high 
and supply of electricians low, there would be price gouging. The cost to retrofit older buildings 
would mean completely re-wiring the entire building/house. The cost would be immense and there is 
no justification for this - what authority does the council members have to even consider this 
proposal to force everyone to comply with retrofitting to go all electric?  
 
Electricity is more expense than gas. What happens to senor citizens who own their home and have 
to now come up with money to pay for the retrofit or complete re-wiring of their aged homes? How 
can on a fixed income or living off of their saving, pay for utilities when electric bill will be higher than 
a gas bill? 
 
The power grid goes down, there is no backup for anything - it has happened with solar flares, too 
much demand for electricity as cold spells in Texas and north east US, there is a domino effect, 
where one power provider goes down then others will go down. An example: In 1982 high winds 
knocked over power lines and it had a ripple effect and took out the power from SF to San Diego and 
all the way to Las Vegas NV, In 1996, two major outages effecting western Canada, Idaho, Montana, 
Utah, New Mexico, CA, and Arizona which effected 3 million people the electricity went out due to 
voltage instability in the grid.  
 
California imports electricity from Mexico and surrounding states, CA it is not self sufficient.  
 
California is becoming a failed state because of these types of regulatory adventures.  
 
The people that have the ability, and those that are young enough, are leaving the state and are also 
the people who provide income through taxes to the state, the state is biting the hand that feed it 
through these kinds of policies.  
 
Gabby Tedeschi-Laughlin 
 
 
 
 
 
1061 of 1111

--- page 1062 ---
-o0o- JACO PROPERTIES, LLC -o0o- 
“A San Francisco Bay Area Workforce Housing Provider” 
P.O. Box 570 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
June 16, 2025 
 
San Mateo City Council 
Mayor Rob Newsom – rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org 
Deputy Mayor Adam Lorraine – aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org 
Councilmember Danielle Cwirko-Godycki – dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org 
Councilmember Lisa Diaz Nash – ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org 
Councilmember Nicole Fernandez – nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org 
Council Clerk – clerk@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
Re: 
Agenda Item 41 - “Forced All-Electric Retrofit” 
 
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council, 
 
I am a local housing provider in San Mateo (we provide workforce housing in San Mateo and 
several other local communities on the peninsula), and I am concerned with the proposals to 
retrofit existing properties to all-electric systems. 
 
Conversion to all-electric is a major capital improvement that is very costly and complex. 
Mandating such a change should not be taken lightly without input from property owners and 
operators who will bear the cost of these new requirements. 
 
Should you continue with electrification of residential buildings, please consider the following: 
 
• The city should make funding available to help offset costs for the retrofit. This includes 
building and permit fees and other expenses, such tenant displacement payments and temporary 
housing as well as potential loss of income during construction. 
 
• The city should give property owners the maximum time allowed to comply. 
 
• The city should not adopt additional restrictions or regulations on the rental housing market that 
would make the retrofit even more cost-prohibitive or enact limitations that would constrain 
housing providers’ control of their properties. 
 
• The city should prioritize an incentive-based approach for phasing out natural gas appliances 
instead of costly, unfunded mandates. 
 
Property owners would be placed in the impossible position of being forced to make huge 
upfront investments at a time when debt service costs are high (some of our insurance premiums 
have increased from 350%) with little more than a hope of eventual modest cost savings. 
 
Please do your due diligence before any final adoption of new mandates. 
 
Sincerely, 
By, Michael Johnston 
For, Jaco Properties, LLC 
1062 of 1111

--- page 1063 ---
1
From:
Z. L. <
>
Sent:
Monday, June 16, 2025 8:00 AM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Recommendations for item #41, Electrify San Mateo
Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Council, 
Thank you for ongoing, strategic climate leadership in these very tough times. Here are my 
recommendations for item #41, Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy, on the June 16, 
2025 Council agenda: 
1. I support adoption of building codes that eliminate gas in new construction,
2. I strongly supportadoption of building codes that eliminate gas in retrofit construction;
these codes will deliver the most significant reductions in Greenhouse Gases,
3. I strongly supportacceleration of NOx air quality standards for gas water heater and
furnace replacement; these codes will also deliver the most significant reductions in
Greenhouse Gases,
4. I support adoption of building performance standards for commercial buildings, and
5. I support electrification of city buildings.
I thank you for this opportunity, 
Ziyi Lu 
1063 of 1111

--- page 1064 ---
From:
John McKenna
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Agenda Item #41 - City Council Meeting 6.16.25
Date:
Monday, June 16, 2025 3:57:08 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council,
I am the father of an 11-year-old daughter and I’m very concerned about her future.
Collectively, we are not acting with the urgency that the climate situation demands
and deserves. The science is clear and it is well-documented that the cost of
addressing the climate crisis will never be less expensive than it is right now – the
longer we wait, the greater the cost and the suffering. Time is running out. We must
act now to preserve a livable planet for future generations.
That being said, I want to thank the City of San Mateo for prioritizing this issue and
working to put a plan in place to decarbonize. San Mateo has proven to be a leader –
we need that to continue and we need more cities to follow.
I respectfully ask the City Council to please support the boldest and most meaningful
versions of the pathways outlined in tonight’s presentation. We are in a "yes, and"
moment. Following just one or two of these pathways will not adequately address the
challenge we have before us – each of the pathways offer solutions to different
problems so we need all of them, in one form or another, to be adopted in order to
meet the City’s goals. While taking these actions will confront the climate crisis, it’s
helpful to also highlight the co-benefits of these electrification pathways which include
better local air quality, improved public health, increased safety, greater resiliency,
more comfortable buildings, and lower energy costs. It’s also important to understand
that there are excellent resources and financial support mechanisms in place to assist
with this transition, particularly for low-income communities.
Thank you for your consideration and thank you for taking this issue seriously and
acting accordingly.
Sincerely,
John McKenna
1064 of 1111

--- page 1065 ---
From:
Elaine Salinger
To:
San Mateo City Council Members
Cc:
San Mateo City Council Clerk
Subject:
San Mateo"s Sustainable Building Strategy
Date:
Friday, June 13, 2025 10:08:36 PM
Dear Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Council, 
Thank you for your climate leadership. As the leader of Citizens Climate Lobby San
Mateo County Chapter, I am speaking for over 1200 members. Here are my
recommendations for item #41, Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy,
on the June 16, 2025 Council agenda:
1. I support adoption of building codes that eliminate gas in new construction,
2. I strongly support adoption of building codes that eliminate gas in retrofit
construction; these codes will deliver the most significant reductions in
Greenhouse Gases,
3. I strongly support acceleration of NOx air quality standards for gas water
heater and furnace replacement; these codes will also deliver the most
significant reductions in Greenhouse Gases,
4. I support adoption of building performance standards for commercial
buildings, and 
5. I support electrification of city buildings.
Thank you and I will try to join the meeting on Monday evening. 
Elaine Salinger, Group Leader
San Mateo County Chapter 
1065 of 1111

--- page 1066 ---
1
From:
Sent:
Friday, June 13, 2025 7:56 AM
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
gas/electric
The city should stay out of regulating building codes - we have enough regulations without city's getting 
involved. 
The all electric concept may not be supported by the supply which the state controls not city's. Until the city 
starts generation of electrical power - the city should stay out of regulating building code requirement. 
Joe Sully 
1066 of 1111

--- page 1067 ---
From:
l watanuki
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Item #41 - Electrify San Mateo - Sustainable Building Strategy Policy Feed-back
Date:
Monday, June 16, 2025 2:12:26 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,
I am a local housing provider in your city, and I am concerned with the proposals to retrofit
existing properties to all-electric systems.
Conversion to all-electric is a major capital improvement that is very costly and complex.
Mandating such a change should not be taken lightly without input from property owners
who will bear the cost of these new requirements.
Should you continue with electrification of residential buildings, please consider the
following:
• The city should make funding available to help offset costs for the retrofit, including
building and permit fees and other expenses, such as potential loss of income during
construction.
• The city should give property owners the maximum time allowed to comply.
• The city should not adopt additional restrictions or regulations on the rental housing
market that would make the retrofit even more cost-prohibitive.
• The city should prioritize an incentive-based approach for phasing out natural gas
appliances instead of costly, unfunded mandates.
Property owners have to make huge upfront investments – at a time when debt service costs
are high – with little hope of modest cost savings.
Please do your due diligence before any final adoption of new mandates.
Best, 
Laurie Watanuki
1067 of 1111

--- page 1068 ---
1
From:
William Williams 
Sent:
Friday, June 13, 2025 11:04 AM
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Electrify San Mateo
Andrea: 
How is a disabled 70 year old resident supposed to pay for city mandated equipment upgrades and the 
correspondingly higher utility charges? 
Will I be expected to live without hot water? 
X Bill Williams, San Mateo 6/13/25 
Sent from Outlook 
1068 of 1111

--- page 1069 ---
ELECTRIFY
SAN MATEO

BUILDING FOR
THE FUTURE

City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy

City Council

6.16.2025

1069 of 1111



--- page 1070 ---
Staff Recommendation
Receive an informational report on the "Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable 
Building Strategy" project and provide direction on the policy pathways for 
inclusion in the final Sustainable Building Strategy.
2
1070 of 1111

--- page 1071 ---
Project
Overview

1071 of 1111



--- page 1072 ---
Electrify San Mateo Background
• Building energy use represents 38% of San Mateo's GHG emissions
• Building electrification is key in reducing fossil gas use and switching to 
clean carbon-free electricity provided by Peninsula Clean Energy
• Co-benefits of electric buildings
4
1072 of 1111

--- page 1073 ---
Local Policy Context Paves the Way for Building 
Decarbonization
• City of San Mateo Reach Codes
• New Construction 
• City of San Mateo Policy: Climate Action 
Plan (CAP)
• BE 1: All-electric new construction
• BE 2: All-electric existing buildings
• BE 2 = most significant driver of 
GHG reductions
• Bay Area Air District (formerly BAAQMD) 
Zero NOx Space and Water Heating 
Requirements
• Zero NOx water heating by 2027
• Zero NOx space heating by 2029
5
1073 of 1111

--- page 1074 ---
Sustainable Buildings Strategy Goals 
• Develop an actionable roadmap with 
concrete steps for City of San Mateo to 
electrify existing buildings​
• Align approach to meet climate goals 
while balancing costs and other impacts
• Use best available science and data
• Listen to the community: engage early 
and often, two phases of community 
outreach
6
1074 of 1111

--- page 1075 ---
Strategy Development Timeline
Summer 2023
Fall 2023
Winter 
23-24
Spring 
2025
Summer 
2025
•
Development of Equity 
+ Effectiveness 
Criteria
•
Identify range of 
feasible policy options
•
Building Inventory and 
Market Segmentation 
Analysis
•
Phase 1: Community 
Outreach: Effectiveness + 
Equity Criteria Feedback 
•
Results of building 
inventory and market 
segmentation 
•
Draft prioritized policies list 
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback for equity and 
effectiveness criteria
•
Draft policies & pathways list- 
Community feedback
•
Phase 2: Outreach: 
Community feedback on 
policy pathways
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback in prioritized policy 
list
•
Drafting of pathway
•
Upcoming Council 
meeting: Sustainable 
Building Strategy 
adoption
7
1075 of 1111

--- page 1076 ---
Community Engagement 
▪Phase I
o
Understand Community Values and Concerns in 
following engagement: 
▪Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting
▪Five General Plan Town Hall meetings
▪Online survey
▪City Council meeting
▪Phase II
o
Present Five Policy Pathways, Understand Community 
Concerns and Needed Support in following 
engagement:
▪One in-person and one virtual community feedback 
meeting
▪Commerical Building Performance Standard Info meeting
▪Presentations at partner meetings and community 
meetings
▪Online survey 
▪Three Commission meetings
8
1076 of 1111

--- page 1077 ---
Existing Building Decarbonization Policy Types
Option 1: Business 
as Usual
Option 2: Reach 
Codes for 
Renovations
Option 3: Zero NOx 
Equipment 
Requirements
Option 4: 
Commercial Building 
Performance 
Standards
Option 5: Municipal 
Electric First Policy
9
1077 of 1111

--- page 1078 ---
Phase II: Community Concerns
▪Installation Cost
•
Short-term investment can be high due to 
unexpected repairs/ upgrades 
▪Installation and Electric Infrastructure Challenges 
•
Lack of space or need to upgrade electric panels 
▪On-bill Costs
•
long term operational costs of electric appliances  
▪Grid Reliability 
•
Power outages from PSPS and increased electricity 
demand could strain the grid
▪Lack of Education
•
Need for a "help-desk" and peer-to-peer coaching
10
1078 of 1111

--- page 1079 ---
On-Bill Cost Impacts
▪Water heaters and 
HVAC save money on 
bill with PCE. 
▪Rate choice is important 
(choose e-elec).
▪Gas rates expected to 
increase faster than 
electricity rates over 
time.
11
1079 of 1111

--- page 1080 ---
Educational Resources
▪Under each policy the City would expand engagement and direct the 
community to robust resources
▪PCE "Concierge Service” “https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/residential/home-upgrade-services/ 
12
1080 of 1111

--- page 1081 ---
Existing Building 
Electrification 
Policy Pathways
1081 of 1111

--- page 1082 ---
Option 1: Business as Usual
• Continue to adopt new construction "reach codes" 
(ordinances that surpass the state's buildings code) to 
require more sustainable new buildings than the state 
code; AB 306 impacts
• Focus on education, outreach, and incentives for 
existing buildings
• Current incentives: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Inflation Reduction Act, and California TECH
$(7,500) savings 
compared to 
mixed-fuel
$0 (pre-wiring 
required 
by code) 
~1,070 MT CO2e/yr by 
2030 if all new buildings 
had no natural gas
14
1082 of 1111

--- page 1083 ---
Option 1: Business As Usual
Community Engagement
Engagement Event
Online Survey
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Community Relations Commission
Level of Support
Highly 
Favorable
Favorable
Polarized
Unfavorable
Highly 
Unfavorable
15
1083 of 1111

--- page 1084 ---
Option 2: Reach Codes for Renovations – AC to HP
• Requires new air conditioning units to 
provide heating and cooling; AB 306 
impacts
• Heat pump is cost parity or up to 
$1,500 more than traditional AC
• PCE has a $1,500 rebate
• Avoids cost of furnace under future 
BAAD rules ($10,000+)
$0 to $(1,500) savings 
compared to AC
$0 (same as AC)  
~2,200 MT CO2e/yr 
by 2030​
16
1084 of 1111

--- page 1085 ---
Option 2: Reach Codes for Renovations – Flex 
• Required for large retrofits (e.g. $75,000+)
• Flexible options (pick one)
• Electrification + Efficiency Options
• All required to save money over lifetime
Variable but usually 
$2,000 to $4,000
$0 (non-electric options)  
~730 MT CO2e/yr 
by 2030​
17
1085 of 1111

--- page 1086 ---
Option 2 Reach Codes for Renovations
Community Engagement
Engagement Event
Online Survey
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Community Relations Commission
Level of Support
Highly 
Favorable
Favorable
Polarized
Unfavorable
Highly 
Unfavorable
18
1086 of 1111

--- page 1087 ---
Option 3: Zero NOx Equipment Requirements
• The Bay Area Air District (BAAD) will 
require property owners in nine Bay 
Area counties, including San Mateo, 
to switch their water heaters 
(starting in 2027) and space heating 
equipment (starting in 2029) to 
electric when they need to be 
replaced
• This proposed policy would move 
up the deadline so that this 
requirement would be in effect in 
ahead of BAAD’s requirements
~9,700 MT 
CO2e/yr by 2030​
19
1087 of 1111

--- page 1088 ---
Costs: Residential Upfront Water 
Heating Electrification Costs
$2,500 
$6,000
Heat Pump Water Heater
Minus PCE Rebate 
$2,000 
Minus Fed. Tax Credit
$1,500
Cost of HPWH - Rebates
$2,800
Cost of Gas Water Heater
Water 
heating
$(1,300) savings 
compared to gas
$3,500 for panel               
if needed
20
1088 of 1111

--- page 1089 ---
Costs: Residential Upfront HVAC 
Electrification Costs
Space heating
$1,500 
$17,910
Heat Pump
Minus PCE Rebate 
$2,000 
Minus Fed. Tax Credit
$14,410 
Cost of HP - Rebates
$13,632
Cost of Furnace and AC
Cost of Furnace
$6,132
$8,278 to $778 compared 
to gas (depends if AC is 
added)
$3,500 for panel                   
if needed
21
1089 of 1111

--- page 1090 ---
Option 3 Zero Nox Equipment Requirements
Community Engagement
Engagement Event
Online Survey
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Community Relations Commission
Level of Support
Highly 
Favorable
Favorable
Polarized
Unfavorable
Highly 
Unfavorable
22
1090 of 1111

--- page 1091 ---
Year 1-2: Benchmark  
Annually Report MT 
CO2e and square 
footage
Year 2-4: Retro-
commission  Engineering 
report on energy saving 
opportunities
Year 4+: Performance Standard     
Complete projects to reach the 
threshold (GHG reduction/ SF)
Option 4: Commercial Building Performance Standards
• Adopt a policy standard for commercial buildings over a specific square 
footage (ex: 20,000 SF; 50,000 already mandated by AB 802)
• Policy would require disclosing building energy use, increasing energy 
efficiency, and eventually, electrifying buildings as a phased approach
$3,000
$0.30/SF 
Variable
Variable
Less than 
~83,660 MT 
CO2e/yr by 
2045 
23
1091 of 1111

--- page 1092 ---
Option 4 Commercial Building Performance Standards
Community Engagement
Engagement Event
Consensus
Online Survey
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Commercial Building Performance Standard Information Session
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Community Relations Commission
Level of Support
Highly 
Favorable
Favorable
Polarized
Unfavorable
Highly 
Unfavorable
24
1092 of 1111

--- page 1093 ---
Community Engagement 
• Advertised event with BPS information 1-pager
• Building owners had the following suggestions and 
concerns:
▪Desire for an individual threshold where buildings must 
reduce their emissions compared to their own historical 
emissions rather than meet a City or building type 
average.
▪Desire for a vintage threshold, exempting newer buildings 
that are already well- performing
▪Concerns regarding space issues and complicated tenant 
and lease structures
25
1093 of 1111

--- page 1094 ---
Option 5: Municipal Electric First Policy 
• Require City facilities to transition to electric equipment 
upon replacement 
• Provides exemptions for infeasible projects
~145 MT CO2e/yr 
by 2030​
26
1094 of 1111

--- page 1095 ---
Option 5 Municipal Electric First Policy
Community Engagement
Engagement Event
Consensus
Online Survey
In-Person Community Feedback Meeting
Virtual Community Feedback Meeting 
San Mateo United Homeowners Association Feedback Meeting 
Senior Advisory Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission  
Community Relations Commission
Level of Support
Highly 
Favorable
Favorable
Polarized
Unfavorable
Highly 
Unfavorable
27
1095 of 1111

--- page 1096 ---
Staff Recommendation
Receive an informational report on the "Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable 
Building Strategy" project and provide direction on the policy pathways for 
inclusion in the final Sustainable Building Strategy.
28
1096 of 1111

--- page 1097 ---
Existing buildings 
making improvements
~1,070 MT CO2e 
per year by 2030 
HP: ~ 2,200 and Flex 
Path: ~ 730 MT CO2e 
per year by 2030 
~9,700 MT CO2e 
per year by 2030 
Less than ~83,660 
MT CO2e per year 
by 2045
~145 MT CO2e per 
year by 2030 
Cost saving to not install 
natural gas infrastructure 
HP: savings/no cost differential w/rebates 
Flex path: cost-efficient options; savings 
over time but upfront costs
Time of replacement usually 
cost-effective but high upfront 
costs in some scenarios  
Cost-efficiency due to flexible 
path & phased implementation; 
Equity considerations in MF
Exceptions for high-
cost scenarios 
Highly Favorable
Favorable/ 
Polarized 
Unfavorable
Favorable
Highly Favorable
29
1097 of 1111

--- page 1098 ---
1
1
San Mateo City Council
June 16, 2025
1098 of 1111

--- page 1099 ---
Who We Are…
•
San Mateo Climate Action Team
•
Aligned with 350 Silicon Valley
•
Seniors and youth, and just ordinary 
people
2
1099 of 1111

--- page 1100 ---
We Are Running Out of Time!!
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: World can emit 
GHG at current rate for only 5 years before Inflection Point!
3
1100 of 1111

--- page 1101 ---
⮚San Mateo is a national leader, through 
hard work, and City Leadership
⮚Peninsula Clean Energy provides clean 
electrical energy and can handle future 
loads.
⮚PCE offers a wider range than ever, of 
assistance to income qualified, and 
market rate customers.
⮚The cost of electrical installation is 
approaching parity with gas 
replacements.
CLIMATE ACTION IN OUR COMMUNITY
4
1101 of 1111

--- page 1102 ---
5
We Support All 5 Options in the
Decarbonization Study
1. BAU: Reach Codes for New Construction
2. Reach Codes for Renovations
3. Accelerated nitrous oxides (NOx) standards
4. Building Performance Standards - Commercial Buildings
5. Electric First Policy for City Buildings
1102 of 1111

--- page 1103 ---
Programs from PCE
•
Gas equipment fails - Be Prepared!
•
Direct install of all new electric 
equipment to replace gas – free to 
income qualified
•
One stop concierge service to provide 
support and coaching
•
Emergency hot water heaters
6
1103 of 1111

--- page 1104 ---
Greenhouse Reduction in Buildings by 2030 From 5 Options
City Bldgs.

Building Performance

Renovation Codes

New Construction Codes

Expedited Zero NOx

o

2500 5000 7500 10000

SW
B50" 44 SAN MATEO
__CLIMATE JUSTICE NOW 7 CLIMATE ACTION TEAM

1104 of 1111


--- page 1105 ---
Electrification Costs* At Parity With Gas!
• Heat pump water heater
• Sample size: 1,499 PCE projects Jan ‘21 to Apr 2025
• HPWH cost after rebates and tax credits
$ 2,533
• Typical gas water heater replacement (tank):    $ 2,500 - $ 3,500
• Typical gas water heater replacement (tankless):        $ 5,200
• Heat pump HVAC
• Sample size: 1,691 PCE projects Oct ‘22 to Apr 2025
• Heat Pump HVAC cost after rebates & tax credits:      $13,800
• Typical gas furnace replacement with AC
$16,000
• Typical gas furnace replacement w/o AC
$   6,800
*Not including electrical upgrades
8
1105 of 1111

--- page 1106 ---
Free electric appliances
• Eligibility: income-
qualified homeowner
• Free electric appliances 
+ minor home repairs
1106 of 1111

--- page 1107 ---
San Mateo County
Income guidelines

Gross annual household income
(80% area median income)

whey
B50"

__CLIMATE JUSTICE NOW

Household size

1 person

Household size

2 person

Household size

3 person

Household size

4 person

Household size

5 person

Gross annual household income

Up to $109,700

Gross annual household income

Up to $125,350

Gross annual household income

Up to $141,000

Gross annual household income

Up to $156,650

Gross annual household income

Up to $169,200

44 SAN MATEO
CLIMATE ACTION TEAM

1107 of 1111



--- page 1108 ---
11
For renters
1.EVs and EBikes
2.Portable heat pumps, 110 Volts, transportable
3.Portable induction cooktops, 110 Volts, transportable
4.Assistance with utility bill payments
5.EV multi family charging stations thru PCE
1108 of 1111

--- page 1109 ---
BAY AREA AIR DISTRICT RULES 9.4 AND 9.6
●Bay Area Air District has adopted rules under the Clean Air Act, 
that prevent replacing gas water heaters with gas, and gas 
furnaces with gas, effective January 1, 2027, and 2029
●Air District has NOT asked for inclusion in the State 
Implementation Plan, for concern about being disallowed 
under the current Administration
●South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) had 
taken a “market” approach, but has now rejected that 
approach.
1109 of 1111

--- page 1110 ---
Assembly Bill 306 - THE END OF REACH CODES
●Places 6 year “temporary” moratorium on new Reach Codes 
- including AC2HP, and Retrofits; effective June 1, 2025 
October 1, 2025, and only if following a building code other 
than the normal state process
●Ostensibly for the purpose of speeding housing rebuild in 
Los Angeles, after fires
●This is an Assembly Speaker Bill
1110 of 1111

--- page 1111 ---
ae FROM
Fa Fue]

THANK YOU

\ | Reduce Emissions

7"

1111 of 1111
