source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0b0d4cfc745cdc0dd1ba39ebda9cf05bb44290d4289186bd5ffe72c0e82a321f
pages: 186
ocr_pages: 25
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
September 6, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
 Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
REVISED AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: September 6, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 840 0679 9538      Passcode: 647181
Mayor Rick Bonilla will teleconference into this meeting from:
261 S. F St., Oxnard, CA.
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Suicide Prevention Month 
2.
Home Maintenance Awards – San Mateo United Homeowners Association 
3.
Wildfire Presentation –  San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department.
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of August 15, 2022.
1 of 186

--- page 2 ---
5.
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap
Closure Project in the amount of $153,000; approve a contingency in the amount of $10,000; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the agreement and amendments within the contingency in substantially the
form presented.
6.
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Housing Assistance Program – Agreement and Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to award an agreement to HIP Housing to provide operational subsidies for resident services
in the amount of $105,000; to authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form
presented; and to appropriate $531,409 of new grant funds to fund the second year of all Permanent Local
Housing Allocation activities.
7.
Mobile Parking Revenue Collection – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with PayByPhone Technologies Inc. to assign the agreement to
PayByPhone US Inc. and authorize the Public Works Director to approve future amendments within the scope of
the agreement and its existing dollar amount of $219,000.
8.
Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project – Agreements
Approve an agreement with American Asphalt Repair & Resurfacing Co., Inc. for street repair work for the
Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project in the amount of $2,874,374 and establish a contingency reserve
of $431,000; approve an agreement with Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. for construction inspection support in the
amount of $278,199.80 and establish a contingency reserve of $29,000; and authorize the Public Works Director
to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the amount of the
contingency reserves.
9.
Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Contingency Amendment
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve associated with the Anvil Builders, Inc. construction contract for
the Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade project in the amount of $3,500,000 for a total of $5,500,000; and
authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
10.
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to enter into an agreement with Herc Rentals,
Inc. for a temporary standby generator required to support the Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade project in an
amount not-to-exceed $222,090.41 for an estimated period of ten months; establish a contingency reserve of
$110,046; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
11.
Disposable Food Service Ware Amendments – Ordinance Adoption 
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service Ware
Ordinance” to recodify a hardship exemption and eliminate duplicative language to correct a clerical error.
12.
Unpaid Code Enforcement Abatement Costs and Citations – 2022 Proposed Property Tax Liens
Adopt a Resolution to approve the list of properties proposed for tax liens for unpaid Code Enforcement
abatement costs and citations, and direct staff to forward the list to the San Mateo County Controller’s Office to
be included in the current year tax roll.
2 of 186

--- page 3 ---
13.
Community Relations Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Appointment Recommendation
Appoint Noopur Vyas Anand to the Community Relations Commission vacancy for a full first term through June
10, 2026, and place Allison Fitzgerald on the eligibility list for one year, should another vacancy occur.
14.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package II – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 6 to the agreement with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc., to provide professional
design and engineering services during construction for Immediate Action Projects Package II in the amount of
$30,000, to revise the total agreement amount not to exceed $1,592,403.46; extend the term through December
31, 2022; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form
presented.
15.
Temporary Accounting Services Agreement – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to an agreement between the City and Maze & Associates for temporary accounting
services in the amount of $81,761 for a new agreement total of $225,876.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
16.
31-57 South B Street – Consider a Zoning Reclassification Request
Consider a request for Zoning Reclassification; and if approved, introduce an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification
for the property at 31-57 South B Street from "Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay - Mixed Use" to "Central
Business District" and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further environmental review under
the California Environmental Quality Act.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
3 of 186

--- page 4 ---
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 186

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5759-07
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 6, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of August 15, 2022.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2022-08-15 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2022-08-15 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 186

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
August 15, 2022
Conference Room C and Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
CALL TO ORDER - 
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee and Goethals
Excused: Council Member Rodriguez
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Tenant Protection Policies Work Program
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager, provided a presentation on policies to strengthen AB1482 tenant 
protection act. She provided a history of tenant protection activity in the City of San Mateo and requested 
direction on Just Cause Eviction Policy, expanding relocation payments, limiting renovation related evictions, 
establishing a right to return policy, and establishing a rental registry. 
Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Jeff LaMont stated public outreach should have been done before taking up this matter. Brian 
Ponty commented the data should be acquired first. Mitch Speigle stated he sees some of the policies as 
impacting landlords. Fernando Pena, SAMCAR, suggested the use of a constituent model for tenant/landlord 
disputes. Alane Gilbrech, SAMCAR, would like to see more collaboration of how to solve disputes. Jennifer 
Martinez stated decision making is on anecdotes, not data – need data. Ramoel Chandry Vijay stated he is 
concerned with impact on renovations. Jordan Grimes stated strong support of all the options on the table, 
study them for implementation. Anne Wilson, property owner in San Mateo, asked if there are owner 
protections. Maggie Trinh supports all the tenant protections. Nora Lihomes, Realtor, cited the need for 
protection for landlords. Suzanne Moore tenant protections are needed. Raayan Mohnteshemi stated the data is 
needed. Kiana Simmons supports tenant protections. Robert Whitehair stated the tenant registry is needed. 
Rhovy Lyn Antonio noted AB1482 was enacted and went into effect in 2020. Xin Ma stated this will divide 
community and not bring us together. Mike Caggiano stated the data is important. Justin Ally said tenant 
protections are prudent well-tailored and adopted by other cities. Sarah Fields cited the need for a rental 
registry. Cameron Gilbert stated the protections could go further. Vikas Maturi supports the policies.
Council members asked for more information, including collecting more data, researching business license 
registration, find out what county level data of homeless rate is available, how to substantiate when it is 
substantial renovation, and more information on rental registry. Council concurred on the need for balanced 
policies. 
2.
Solid Waste Rate Setting for 2023
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor, and Rick Simonson, Senior Vice President, HF&H Consultants, 
provided a presentation on the five-year rate revenue adjustment plan for funding revenue shortfalls, cost-of-
service analysis and rate impacts by customer class.
6 of 186

--- page 7 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 2
Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers. Council consensus was the potential 
solid waste rates and restructuring for 2023 were appropriate in reserves.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
7 of 186

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
August 15, 2022
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee and Goethals
Excused: Council Member Rodriguez
CEREMONIAL
1.
Safe from Wildfires Presentation – California Department of Insurance – Mary Beth Bykowsky presented
2.
San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce Update – Cheryl Angeles, President and CEO, San Mateo Area Chamber 
of Commerce, provided a presentation of the Chamber’s “Year In Review”
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 3 through 21, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, and Goethals
Noes: 
None
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of April 18, 2022, May 2, 2022, May 16, 
2022, June 6, 2022, June 20, 2022, July 18, 2022, and the Special meeting minutes of May 23, 2022.
4.
Sustainability & Infrastructure Appointment Subcommittee – Appointment Recommendation
Appoint Sigalle Michael to the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission vacancy for a full first term ending on 
June 10, 2026, and place Pam Rittelmeyer on the eligibility list, should another vacancy occur. 
5.
League of California Cities Annual Conference – Voting Delegate Designation
Designate Mayor Rick Bonilla as the City's Voting Delegate for the 2022 League of California Cities Annual 
Conference and authorize him to vote for the League’s bylaws amendments.
6.
“Minimum Wage” Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 5.92 “Minimum Wage” to add a Consumer Price Index 
percentage cap, a catch-up provision, and round the minimum wage to the nearest five cents.
Enactment:  Ordinance No. 2022-07
8 of 186

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 2
7.
National Opioid Litigation and Settlement Agreements – Direct Settlement Funds to San Mateo County
Authorize the City Manager and City Attorney to take all necessary steps and execute appropriate documents to 
direct settlement funds from the Opioid Settlement Agreements with Distributors and Janssen to San Mateo 
County for the duration of both agreements, in the approximate amount of $820,000, and confirm staff action to 
direct the first-year payment of Distributor settlement funds in the amount of $28,464.21 to the County. 
8.
San Mateo County Mobile Health Clinic – License Agreement
Approve a License Agreement with County of San Mateo to allow a Mobile Health Clinic to operate in the City’s 
public right-of-way and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
9.
360 1st Avenue – Lease Amendment
Approve an amendment to the lease for 360 1st Avenue in the Main Street Garage with A+ Mailboxes & More 
allowing for a one-year lease extension and an additional one-year option and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the lease in substantially the form presented. 
10.
Bulk Mailing and Printing – Agreements
Approve bulk mailing and printing services agreements with: 1) CMG Language Services, LLC DBA ColorPrint; and 
2) AMS Systems, Inc. DBA AMS Printing, each for an amount not to exceed $150,000 annually;  with each 
agreement providing for two 1-year extension options for up to $150,000 each year, for a total not to exceed 
amount of $450,000 for each agreement; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in 
substantially the form presented and to exercise the extension options for each agreement. 
11.
Revision of Interim Child Care Fund Guidelines – Approval
Approve the revisions of the Interim Child Care Fund Guidelines.
12.
East Hillsdale Park Construction Drawings – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Callander Associates Landscape Architecture (CALA) to provide professional design 
refinement, construction document preparation, bid assistance, and construction observation services for East 
Hillsdale Park in the amount of $167,380 with a contingency of $15,000 and authorize the Parks and Recreation 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
13.
Classification Updates – Police Department
Adopt a Resolution to approve: 1) the job specification and salary range for the new classification of Crime and 
Intelligence Analyst; and 2) reallocate 1.0 vacant Management Analyst II position to 1.0 Crime and Intelligence 
Analyst position in the Police Department.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 86 (2022)
14.
Cannabis Tax Fund Grant Program – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate funds for the Department of California Highway Patrol Cannabis Tax Fund 
Grant Program grant totaling $31,159.32; and authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and expend the funds. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 87 (2022)
15.
Cellebrite Premium Software Subscription – Agreement and Appropriation
Approve an agreement for purchase of Cellebrite Premium Unlimited Software subscription from Cellebrite, Inc. 
in the amount of $92,715.35, bringing the cumulative amount to be spent with the vendor for fiscal year 2022-23 
9 of 186

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 3
to $113,000, and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented; and 
adopt a resolution approving a fiscal year 2022-23 budget appropriation in the amount of $92,715.35 with a net-
zero impact to the general fund.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 88 (2022)
16.
Library Materials Acquisition – Agreement
Authorize the Library to spend up to $500,000 annually for fiscal years 2022-23 and 2023-24 in accordance with 
terms of the Baker & Taylor agreement approved by the City Council on August 17, 2021, to provide books and 
audiovisual materials and with the option to renew for up to three additional years.  
17.
Wastewater Treatment Plant On-Call Consulting Services – Agreements
Approve two on-call professional services agreements for the Wastewater Treatment Plant related services to 
Carollo Engineers, Inc. and Brown and Caldwell, with each agreement in the amount of $400,000 for three years, 
with two (2) one-year extension options for up to $100,000 per year, for a maximum of five (5) years and 
$600,000 for each agreement; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements substantially 
in the form presented, to issue project-specific task orders under these agreements, and to amend the 
agreements within the budget amount. 
18.
High Voltage Streetlight Conversion (Phase 3) – Agreements
Approve an agreement with St. Francis Electric, LLC for construction of the High Voltage Streetlight Conversion 
(Phase 3) Project in the amount of $2,352,230; establish a contingency reserve of $240,000; approve an 
agreement with Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. for construction inspection support in the amount of $92,243; 
establish a contingency reserve of $9,300; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders or amendments within the budget and contingency 
reserve.
19.
Use of Public Right-of-Way – Agreement
Approve a Utility Equipment Agreement (UEA) with Bandwidth IG, LLC for the construction, installation, 
maintenance, and operation of fiber optic network facilities within the public right-of-way and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form attached.
20.
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Agreement
Approve an Agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. for a temporary standby generator required to support the Dale 
Avenue Pump Station Upgrade project in an amount not-to-exceed $222,090.41 for an estimated period of ten 
months; establish a contingency reserve of $110,046; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
21.
Collection System Construction Management Services for the Clean Water Program – Amendments
Approve amendments with two professional services firms, Tanner Pacific, Inc. and Townsend Management, Inc., 
to expand the scope of as-needed construction management services under the Clean Water Program to include 
support for Wastewater Treatment Plant projects; amend the durational term of the agreements and indemnity 
provisions; maintain the originally approved not-to-exceed amounts of $3,000,000 each; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the amendments substantially in the form presented and approve future 
amendments within the approved budget.
22.
2021 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association – Annual Report
Review and accept the 2021 San Mateo Rail Corridor Transportation Management Association Annual Report.
10 of 186

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 08/15/2022
Page 4
PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment – Mary Ann Paulic, stated that Crown Castle Company wants to put up a 5G tower on her street and 
she is very concerned. Max Partl is concerned with Franklin Parkway as a fast street with major accidents, wants a lower 
speed limit, speed humps, etc. Wendy Malabuyo concerned with traffic in Bay Meadows on Franklin Parkway. Danny 
Guo stated there was an accident this weekend off of Franklin that landed in their yard. Kat stated she is also a resident 
of Bay Meadows community and is very concerned with the excess speed on Franklin Parkway and the amount of 
accidents; there have been at least three very serious accidents with major property damage.
 
NEW BUSINESS
23.
Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance – Amendment
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, provided a presentation on the corrections needed to the Disposable Food 
Ware ordinance due to a clerical error. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no 
speakers.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service 
Ware Ordinance” to recodify a hardship exemption and eliminate duplicative language, to correct a clerical 
error. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee and Goethals
Noes: 
None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Council 
Member Lee spoke regarding the SFO Roundtable meetings and asked alternates for attendance support and it was 
noted that future discussion was desired at the next liaison appointment conversation. Council Member Papan stated 
they have received emails and letters about Planning Commission members’ actions and comments and noted the City 
will be meeting regarding the Planning Commission Handbook on September 6th and informed the public they can 
attend that meeting.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned following a moment of silence in memory of Doug McCool and Jan Lamphier 
at 8:12 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
11 of 186

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4666
File ID: 22-6492
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
in the amount of $153,000; approve a contingency in the amount of $10,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the agreement and amendments within the contingency in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In September 2020, the City submitted an application to the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) for the 
Measure A/W Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 Call for Projects. In December 2020, the City received notification 
that SMCTA had awarded $153,000 to design pedestrian and bicycle improvements between the existing 28th Avenue 
bicycle boulevard and the new Hillsdale Caltrain Station. 
The project includes engineering and planning services to the City to design a Class IV separated bike lane and intersection 
improvements on 28th Avenue to connect the existing bicycle boulevard at Edison across El Camino Real to the Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station. The project will evaluate implementation of the Class IV separated bike lane on 28th Avenue from Edison 
Street to El Camino Real as proposed in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. The project will also develop and assess 
options to provide a safe crossing for bicycles and pedestrians across El Camino Real, such as video detection for bicyclists 
and vehicles and/or a new crosswalk at the El Camino Real intersection. Incorporation of green infrastructure will be 
considered where appropriate. The result will be a constructible design that encompasses the alignments best suited to 
the location based on safety, connectivity, and community engagement. 
On April 11, 2022, the Public Works Department issued a request for proposals (RFP) to select a qualified firm(s) to provide 
design and environmental services for the project. The City received proposals from three firms and evaluated the 
proposals based on each firm's understanding of the work involved, experience with similar work, quality of project team, 
and technical ability of key staff. Staff interviewed all three firms for the project: Bellecci & Associates; BKF Engineers; and 
CSG Engineering. Following interviews with each proposed project team, staff found the Bellecci & Associates team to be 
most qualified to complete the scope of work identified in the RFP. Staff recommends entering into an agreement with 
Bellecci & Associates. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available for this agreement in the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Gap Closure Project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) As part of 
12 of 186

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the project scope, a separate CEQA document will be prepared for the final design plans. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
13 of 186

--- page 14 ---
AGREEMENT WITH BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION BICYCLE ACCESS GAP CLOSURE PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES, INC., an S-Corp, (“CONSULTANT”), whose 
address is 2290 Diamond Blvd. Suite 100, Concord CA 94520. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set 
forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as 
described in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to 
perform the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a 
Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
14 of 186

--- page 15 ---
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions 
pertaining thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's 
work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on September 8, 
2022 and be completed on or about June 30, 2023. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration 
for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a 
fee in an amount of $153,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached 
and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY 
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, 
upon ten (10) days' written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under 
this Agreement upon receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, 
documents become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon 
request without additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, 
although instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the 
project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
15 of 186

--- page 16 ---
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the 
performance of this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  
CONSULTANT shall not make any such documents or information available to any individual or 
organization not employed by CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before 
any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any 
interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree 
with the performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required 
under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor 
as defined in Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work 
but not the means by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to 
make CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while providing services under this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims 
arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three 
years thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in 
Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of 
CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without 
the prior written consent of CITY. 
 
16 of 186

--- page 17 ---
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that 
CONSULTANT is skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be 
done under this Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and 
perform the work in accordance with the care, skill, and diligence ordinarily exercised by 
professionals providing similar services under similar circumstances to that of CONSULTANT 
under this Agreement, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of 
CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said 
obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition 
of this Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a 
waiver of such term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or 
violation of the same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent 
acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall 
not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the other party of any 
term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement 
shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of 
this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the 
trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, 
appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the 
other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
17 of 186

--- page 18 ---
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor 
any of its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, 
color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, 
unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair 
Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration 
Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The 
mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement 
is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by 
the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in 
connection with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by 
CONSULTANT, or is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate 
CONSULTANT for preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard 
hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed 
as follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
18 of 186

--- page 19 ---
To CONSULTANT: 
Bellecci and Associates, Inc. 
Attn:  Daniel Leary 
2290 Diamond Blvd. Suite 100 
Concord CA 94520 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either 
written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to 
execute, deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who 
have signed this Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement 
and to bind each respective party. 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event 
of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
19 of 186

--- page 20 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES, INC. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Daniel Leary 
Its Authorized Agent 
Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer 
(i.e., 
Secretary, 
Treasurer) who shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Anoop Reddy Admal  
Treasurer 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
20 of 186

--- page 21 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (“PROJECT”) will include 
design of the Class IV facility proposed in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan on 28th Avenue between 
Edison Street and El Camino Real, and multimodal connectivity across El Camino Real to provide 
a path of travel for bicyclists and pedestrians. Bellecci & Associates, Inc. (“CONSULTANT”) will 
provide civil engineering and planning services to the City of San Mateo for the design of this 
PROJECT. 
 
1. 
Project Management and Meetings 
 
1.1. 
City Kick-off Meeting - The project's goals will be identified as part of our preliminary 
design efforts and discussions with Key Stakeholders at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project Kick-Off Meeting. It is recommended that the kick-
off meeting includes staff from various City departments: Maintenance, Public Works, 
Engineering, Finance, and Planning. CONSULTANT will identify the City’s primary goals 
and objective. CONSULTANT will coordinate with the City to establish the overall 
Mission of the Project and research options to be considered. Fehr & Peers will present our 
scope of work for community outreach and engagement and seek input from City staff to 
inform this approach.  We will also provide our approach for alternatives development and 
evaluation, and 30% design effort.  At this meeting or as a follow-up to that discussion, 
Fehr & Peers will request input from the city to determine key stakeholders and other 
agency or stakeholder groups that should be integrated into our community outreach and 
engagement plan.  
 
1.2. 
Communication with City Staff – Project elements such as design alternatives, schedule, 
project costs, budget, and meetings will be communicated to the City through standing 
meetings.  
• PDT Meeting Every Two Weeks – City PM & Bellecci PM on Teams 
• Page-Turn Review Meeting for each submittal 
 
CONSULTANT will be responsible for managing both the technical and non-technical, 
organization related administrative work to deliver a bicycle gap closure project to the City. 
The key project management tasks that will be implemented by CONSULTANT include 
updating the project schedule; monitoring and updating the project budget, and scheduling 
coordination meetings. The project schedule will be created in MS Project. 
CONSULTANT will provide cost reports with invoices that highlight the approved budget, 
budget remaining, and amount spent for the invoicing period, and an estimate of the percent 
complete And monthly project updates.  
 
 
21 of 186

--- page 22 ---
1.3. 
Quality Analysis/Quality Control (QA/QC) – The Peer Reviewer assigned to the 
Caltrans Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project will be checking the following items: 
• Addressing overall project goals with the design 
• Bicycle and pedestrian interfaces 
• Constructability Issues such as Street lights vs. Utilities vs. potholing data. 
• Bid Form, Measurement and Payment clauses 
• Pedestrian and Bicycle crossings and path of travel during construction 
• Grading Plan – Elevations & Slopes to meet the Caltrans RSP A88A plan. 
• Specifications Checklist – Min. compressive strength of concrete mix design, 
asphalt paving specifications, compaction requirements, revocable bid items for 
contaminated soils, and testing. 
 
 
2. 
Community Outreach & Engagement 
 
2.1 Outreach & Engagement Plan – Following the kick-off meeting and subsequent email 
or phone correspondence with City staff, we will document our proposed outreach and 
engagement plan and send to City staff for review.  Based on City comments or requests 
for clarification, we will revise the outreach and engagement plan and submit a final 
version for City staff.   
 
2.2 Stakeholder Interviews/Workshops and Field Walk – We will meet with key 
stakeholders to discuss the project, specifically the objective, priorities, challenges, and 
opportunities. This will include an optional field walk with key stakeholders (with city 
staff), to visit the site and review potential opportunities and constraints.  We will solicit 
additional feedback from the stakeholder group and city staff while in the field, and seek 
to educate the group about potential considerations to be taken into account as we develop 
potential concepts for the project. A total of four hours of stakeholder meetings (including 
the workshop and field walk) is included in this task. 
 
 
2.3 Community Meetings/Workshops – We will prepare for and present to the community 
in person or virtually at up to two instances.  For the basis of our fee estimate, we assume 
the following community meeting topics: 
• Presenting draft concept plan and ideas, seeking input about additional 
considerations. 
• Presenting the preferred alternative to the community for feedback and support as 
we initiate the Final Design phase 
 
We will use exhibits and collateral developed as part of Task 3 below for these meetings, 
and provide some additional content based on discussions with city staff and stakeholders 
to make best use of these community meetings.  A total of 30 hours for Fehr & Peers staff 
is included for preparation for these meetings, attendance/presentation at these meetings, 
and some follow-up with city staff to confirm next steps after each event.   
22 of 186

--- page 23 ---
2.4 Website Updates & Coordination – We anticipate providing city staff with the content 
from the stakeholder meetings, community meetings, and our conceptual design efforts 
(Task 3) to be included on a project website hosted by and maintained by the city.   
 
2.5 Commission Meetings – We have included participation at up to two commission 
meetings as part of this task. 
 
3. 
Concept Development and 30% Design 
Fehr & Peers will lead the development of alternatives, evaluating potential alternatives, and 
developing a conceptual design for the selected alternative with support from Bellecci. 
3.1 Field Visit – Fehr& Peers will visit the project site and review existing conditions, including 
a qualitative assessment of multimodal operations, access, and circulation.  
 
3.2 Data Review – Fehr & Peers will develop a list of potential data that would inform our work 
and transmit to Bellecci and the City to determine the data available for this effort.  We will 
review the data provided and other data readily available from other sources. 
 
3.3 Develop & Evaluate Alternatives – Fehr & Peers will develop potential alternatives using 
the results of our field review, data review, stakeholder engagement, meetings with city staff, 
and industry best practices about bikeway design and implementation. We will review readily 
available traffic count data to understand demand for particular movements and explore 
intersection phasing options to facilitate improved bicycle and pedestrian crossings across El 
Camino Real.  We will prepare exhibits showing opportunities and constraints, corridor-level 
concepts and representative cross-sections, and relevant imagery to explain trade-offs and 
opportunities.  We will develop up to three concepts in response to discussions with City staff 
and key stakeholders. 
 
3.4 Concept Design – Once a preferred alternative has been selected, we will prepare concept 
design plans (30% design level) and a construction estimate.  We will use readily-available 
aerial imagery as a base map for our concept plans unless a more detailed topographic base 
map is made available for use for this task. We will develop a concept-level cost estimate using 
readily available cost information including Caltrans cost database or other projects in San 
Mateo our other jurisdictions in the bay area.   
 
 
4. 
Topographic Survey and Base Mapping 
 
The field surveying will be performed after the preliminary design phase and will be focused on 
topographic survey for at key conforms. Examples of items to be surveyed at the select conforms 
include curb returns, signal poles, utility boxes, drainage manholes, streetlights, asphalt, curb, flow 
line and lip of gutter, driveways, back of walk, retaining curbs, fire hydrants, sewer manholes 
within curb returns, drainage manholes, inlets, rim and inverts and others to be determined by the 
engineer and surveyors prior to the field work.   
 
CONSULTANT will collect available mapping, and to perform a professional land survey of the 
project site with a union survey crew. We will implement the following methods for Project 
23 of 186

--- page 24 ---
Mapping: 
• Send letters to Utility Companies (PG&E, AT&T, Astound, Crown castle, Comcast, SFPUC, 
Caltrans, etc.) to get each agency mapping.  
• Review City GIS Mapping 
• Perform Field Topographic Surveying  
• Back check the above items against utility mapping obtained from City and Utility Companies. 
 
This project does not anticipate any right of way acquisition, the right of way will be shown 
approximately based on record maps, APN maps and other record maps which we will obtain from 
our land survey departments. 
 
CONSULTANT will prepare utility letters. CONSULTANT will notify the owners of the known 
utilities in the project area to obtain copies of their utility base maps for use in developing the base 
plans.  The approximate locations of the utilities from the information provided by the utility 
companies will be added to the base map.   
 
CONSULTANT will visually inspect the Caltrans Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure site to 
assess possible constraints or issues to be addressed during design including existing physical 
constraints at the project site, limits of work and possible conform issues to be addressed during 
the design. CONSULTANT team will conduct a field review of the project area to collect 
information for project design and to review traffic circulation, including pedestrians, transit, 
trucks, and bicycles.   
 
Deliverable: Topographic Survey and Base Map 
 
5. 
Preliminary Environmental Study - Environmental consultant, David J. Powers and 
Associates, Inc. (DJPA) will support the City in preparing the appropriate environmental document 
under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle 
Access Gap Closure Project. This task includes developing a draft environmental document, assisting 
in circulating the document for public review, and finalizing the documents for filing per public 
comments and internal City feedback 
Deliverables: Preliminary Plans and Cost Estimate: PDF copies of Plans and Cost Estimates 
 
6. 
Utility Coordination 
 
Identify existing utilities from record drawings in conflict with the PROJECT by comparing "CAD 
BASE MAPPING" with existing utilities, and with the PROJECT layout in CAD.  Prepare letters 
to utility companies for relocation of utility boxes and submit a PG&E application on behalf of the 
City. Send notification letters to utility companies regarding adjustments to utility boxes during 
construction.   
Deliverables: Utility NTO letter, Caltrans Utility matrix and PG&E Application 
 
7. 
65% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
 
CONSULTANT design team will further develop the concept design plans and documents for the 
65% Submittal CONSULTANT will include in their proposal the proposed sheets that will be 
included as part of the 65% design. 
24 of 186

--- page 25 ---
• 65% Specifications (Technical Specs Outline): Specifications will be written in the format of the 
City’s standard contract book and Caltrans Standard Plans and Specifications, dated 2018 (where 
applicable). The City will provide a front- end boiler plate. 
• 65% Cost Estimate: Construction estimate will be in a format which is best suited for presenting the 
overall project budget. During the 100% submittal the cost estimate line items will be converted to 
the appropriate bid form items. 
CONSULTANT design team will provide the 65% PS&E to the City for review and schedule a 
meeting to review the documents. Following comments from the City, CONSULTANT design team 
will move forward with 100% PS&E 
 
8. 
100% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates 
 
A Final (100%) bid set will be prepared by the CONSULTANT design team and include technical 
specifications, a bid item sheet, and estimate of construction cost, along with final plans that include 
the sheets previously described. The final engineer’s estimate will also include a line-item bid 
schedule formatted to include in the bid package (to be filled in by each bidder). CONSULTANT will 
support the City in the preparation of the boilerplate specifications with surveying specifications and 
working days. The team will provide the City with stamped and signed original plans and specifications 
for reproducing and bidding. Final plans, bid schedule and specifications shall also be provided 
electronically, along with one stamped and signed original of the documents including a signed and stamped 
full size and half size plan set. 
 
9. 
Caltrans Encroachment Permit 
 
CONSULTANT will submit to Caltrans 100% Permit Plans along with various forms required for 
the encroachment permit. These include ADA Certifications, Storm Water Data Report – Short 
Form, Plans, Cost Estimates, and Maintenance Agreement between City of San Mateo and 
Caltrans. 
 
25 of 186

--- page 26 ---
EXHIBIT B 
 
FEE RATES 
 
 
26 of 186

--- page 27 ---
Proposal for: Professional Design Engineering Services for HillsdaleStation Bike Access Gap Closure Project
Mark Ups
ODCs
Total
$270.00 
$228.00 
$190.00 
$180.00 
$168.00 
$150.00 
$95.00 
$170.00 
$228.00 
$312.00 
LS Fee
LS Fee
Project Management & Meetings
3
20
12
35
$7,650
$0
$7,650
Field Review
4
4
$912
$0
$912
Preliminary Environmental Checklist
0
$0
$2,606
$182
$2,788
Develop, Evaluate Alternatives & 30% Plans & Estimate
0
0
0
0
0
$0
$20,000
$1,400
$21,400
Community Meetings & Commission Meetings
0
$0
$14,000
$980
$14,980
Topographic Survey 
1
16.00
2
12
31
$6,828
$0
$6,828
Utility Mapping
1
4
24.0
29
$4,588
$0
$4,588
Caltrans Encrooachment Permit
2
12
28
42
$6,936
$0
$6,936
Utility Coordination
3
9
12
$1,920
$0
$1,920
65% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates
2
18
36
60
80
24
220
$35,844
$15,000
$1,050
$51,894
100% Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates
4
21.0
34
0
37
40
136
$24,544
$8,000
$560
$33,104
9
295
101
0
97
197
24
0
2
12
509
$89,222
$57,000
$2,606
$4,172
$0
$153,000
1
2
Review to previous spreadsheet for optional services, not needed
Notes:
Distribution of Hours may vary during the performance of the services
Data Collection and Research
Base Mapping
Preliminary Design (30%)
Agency Coordination
Plans & Specifications
Basic Service Subtotal
5.1
5.2
Design 
Eng
Eng 
Intern
Land 
Surv
 Assist 
Eng
Survey 
Tech
6.1
6
Task
 #
1
4
2
3
Sen Proj 
Mnger
Prof. 
Eng I 
Proj. 
Eng 
(DE III)
Total Fee
7% Sub Mark 
Up
Other Direct 
Costs
Total  
Hours
Total Labor 
Costs
07/18/2022
Union 
Survey 
Crew
David J Powers 
(Environmental)
Fehr and Peers 
(Traffic Engineer)
6.2
City of San Mateo, CA
Tasks
Task Description 
Prin
3.1
3.2
2.2
4.2
4.1
2.1
5
27 of 186

--- page 28 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 
07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the 
CONSULTANT’s profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, 
$2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability 
arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General 
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s 
insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used). 
 
28 of 186

--- page 29 ---
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute 
with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the 
City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of 
said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance.  CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect 
this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The 
City may require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention 
or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and 
defense expenses within the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning 
shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to 
require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements re 
29 of 186

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 22-6469
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 6, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Housing Assistance Program – Agreement and Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to award an agreement to HIP Housing to provide operational subsidies for resident services in the 
amount of $105,000; to authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented; and to 
appropriate $531,409 of new grant funds to fund the second year of all Permanent Local Housing Allocation activities.
BACKGROUND:
The City received a grant allocation from the California Department of Housing and Community Development for the 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) program, which provides a permanent source of funding to all local 
governments in California to help cities and counties implement plans to increase housing affordability. This is a flexible 
funding source that can be used for a wide range of activities from increasing the housing supply to providing supportive 
services. The PLHA application requires that the City develop a 5-year plan to allocate spending, which was approved by 
City Council on July 20, 2020. The services provided in this agreement are included in the City’s 5-year plan. The first-year 
full grant amount was $341,894 and the second-year grant amount was $531,409, for a total of $873,303.
HIP Housing is a San Mateo based non-profit organization that provides shared housing, a self-sufficiency program and 
property management services that primarily serve low-income families and individuals throughout San Mateo County. In 
recent years, HIP Housing has experienced some funding gaps that have impacted its ability to adequately fund its 
programs. The City previously supported HIP Housing’s Home Sharing Program from fiscal year 2011-12 to fiscal year 2020-
21 for an average of $17,800 annually with CDBG funding. Prior to CDBG funding, the City funded the Home Sharing 
Program from the Redevelopment Agency in the amount of $25,000 annually. Due to rigorous client income verification 
and reporting requirements, which clients were often unable to meet due to limited resources and/or access to resources, 
HIP was unable to continue accepting CDBG funds. In addition, HIP Housing owns and operates six affordable housing 
complexes in the City that are home to 226 low-income people. In the past five years, operating costs have rapidly 
increased, which has resulted in a decrease of approximately $90,000 in annual income from their properties. HIP 
Housing’s units are all deed restricted and they are unable to raise rents to accommodate new fees. The $105,000 grant 
will enable HIP Housing to fill their funding gaps to more adequately provide services for their residents and customers.
In addition to the $105,000 agreement with HIP Housing described above, this appropriation will also cover two additional 
PLHA agreements. This includes an agreement with Bay Meadows Affordable Associates, LLC to provide operational 
subsidies for tenant services at the Montara affordable housing development, which was previously approved by City 
Council on February 16, 2021, and an agreement with LifeMoves for housing assistance with case management, which was 
previously approved by City Council on June 21, 2021. Both existing agreements were amended on November 23, 2021. In 
order to encompass the three agreements, the appropriation prepared by staff is for the total amount of PLHA funding 
awarded to the City of San Mateo for the second year of activities, which amounts to $531,409. 
30 of 186

--- page 31 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The $531,409 in new PLHA grant funds will be appropriated into the 2022-23 PLHA (Fund 36) operating budget in order to 
fund this agreement with HIP Housing in the amount of $105,000. The appropriation is larger than the amount of the HIP 
Housing agreement because it will incorporate all of the previously funded PLHA activities, which includes two previously 
approved agreements. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – HIP PLHA Agreement
Att 3 – HIP Funding Request
STAFF CONTACT
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager
emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
31 of 186

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROPRIATE $531,409 FROM NEW PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION ENTITLEMENT FUNDS INTO 
THE OPERATING BUDGET FOR 2022-23 AND AWARD AN AGREEMENT IN THE AMOUNT OF $105,000 TO HIP 
HOUSING TO PROVIDE OPERATIONAL SUBSIDIES FOR RESIDENT SERVICES 
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, the California Department of Housing and Community Development has made available 
$531,409 in the Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Fund to be used to increase housing affordability; 
and
WHEREAS, the City desires to award these funds to be used to subsidize operations costs for supportive 
services in an affordable housing; and to preserve existing affordable housing units through subsidizing 
operating costs; and to assist a home sharing program for matching prospective tenants to naturally affordable 
housing with supportive services; and to assist the creation of a rapid rehousing program for direct housing 
assistance with case management services; and
WHEREAS, HIP Housing is a San Mateo based non-profit organization that provides shared housing, a 
self-sufficiency program and property management services that primarily serve low-income families and 
individuals throughout San Mateo County; and
WHEREAS, HIP Housing shall be awarded a grant in the amount of $105,000 for resident services; and 
WHEREAS, this agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity that 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
A budget appropriation from the Permanent Local Housing Allocation Grant entitlement fund 
to the PLHA Fund operating budget for fiscal year 2022-23 is approved in the amount of 
$531,409; and
2.
HIP Housing shall be awarded an agreement to provide operational subsidies for resident 
services in the amount of $105,000; and 
3.
The City Manager shall execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
32 of 186

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
AGREEMENT TO PROVIDE FUNDS 
FOR COMMUNITY PURPOSES 
PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION FUND 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on this __  day of ____ 2022, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, hereinafter referred to as City, and HUMAN INVESTMENT PROJECT (HIP HOUSING), hereinafter referred 
to as Organization. 
 
The City wishes to provide support for certain community purposes that provide a benefit to low‐income San 
Mateo City residents. 
 
To achieve common goals in the community, the City and the Organization agree as follows: 
 
1. 
ORGANIZATION: The Organization is an independent contractor, organized in accordance with the laws of 
California, willing to and capable of performing such community services. 
 
2. 
SERVICES:  Organization shall provide the services and/or the improvements described in Attachment "A", 
the Organization Funding Proposal. 
 
3. 
FUNDING:  The source of City funds Permanent Local Housing Allocation Fund. Funding shall be used for 
lawful purposes.  The City reserves the right to cancel, lower or rescind the amount of funding provided in 
this agreement if state funds are less than expected or other Congressional rescissions or restrictions to the 
program occur. There shall be no liability to Organization as a result of the lowering or canceling of the 
funding under this agreement. 
 
 
In the manner prescribed by the City, the funding amount for this agreement shall not exceed $105,000. 
Organization shall provide an invoice for each request for payment that shall specify how the funds 
requested for reimbursement of costs for contracted services have been spent.  All quarterly payments 
shall be made within thirty (30) days of the Organization's submission of the funding request required 
under this Section 3. Organization shall maintain receipts related to each reimbursable expense for five (5) 
years. 
 
4. 
AGREEMENT TERM:  This agreement shall commence on July 1, 2022 and shall terminate on June 30, 2023 
and may be renewed for one additional year upon a fully executed amendment.  
 
5. 
FISCAL AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES OF ORGANIZATION:  Organization shall: 
 
 
A. 
Comply with State Regulations, particularly the provisions of “Permanent Local Housing Allocation 
Final Guidelines” dated October 2019. 
 
 
B. 
Establish and maintain a written system of accounts for budgeted funds that shall be in conformance 
with generally accepted principles of accounting.  Such system of accounts shall be subject to review, 
approval and inspection by City. 
 
 
C. 
Document all costs by maintaining complete and accurate records of all financial transactions, 
including, but not limited to, contracts, invoices, time cards, cash and charge receipts, vouchers, 
cancelled checks, bank statements and/or other official documentation evidencing in proper detail 
the nature and propriety of all transactions. 
 
33 of 186

--- page 34 ---
D. 
Independent Audits:  Organizations must perform an independent fiscal audit once a year, in 
conformance with the generally accepted standard accounting principles.  Such audits must identify 
the total funds received and disbursed as well as funds granted and expended.  The costs for such 
audits shall be at Organization's expense, unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.  The 
Organization Board of Directors must provide copies of the completed audits to the City within thirty 
(30) days of their completion and acceptance by the Organization Board of Directors. 
 
 
E. 
Disallowed Costs:  Disallowed costs are costs not allowed and approved by the City.  Organization is 
liable for repayment of disallowed costs.  Disallowed costs may be identified through Quarterly 
Reports, audits, examination of invoices, monitoring or other sources.  Organization shall be afforded 
the opportunity to respond to any adverse findings which may lead to disallowed costs.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, any and all costs identified in Attachment “A” shall 
constitute allowed costs and shall not be subject to the terms of this Section 5.E. 
 
 
F. 
For public works projects, comply with San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 3.61 and state prevailing 
wage laws, including contractor registration with the Department of Industrial Relations.  
 
G. 
Comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which 
differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
6. 
RECORDS, REPORTS AND AUDITS OF ORGANIZATION: 
 
 
A. 
Establishment and Maintenance of Records: Organization shall maintain records, including but not 
limited to books, financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, personnel, property, 
and all other pertinent records sufficient to reflect properly (1) all direct and indirect costs of 
whatever nature claimed to have been incurred and anticipated to be incurred to perform this 
Agreement, and (2) all other matters covered by this Agreement. 
 
 
B. 
Preservation of Records: Organization shall reserve and make available 10 written notice its records: 
 
 
1) 
Until the expiration of five (5) years from the date of the submission of the annual financial 
status report. 
 
 
2) 
For such longer period, if any, as is required by applicable law; or 
 
 
3) 
If this Contract is completely or partially terminated the records relating to the work 
terminated shall be preserved and made available for a period of five (5) years from the date of 
any resulting final settlement. 
   
 
4)      In order to verify the information provided, City shall have the right to inspect the books and 
records of Organization and its agent or bookkeeper upon reasonable notice.  
 
 
C. 
Program Report: Organization shall provide Program Reports to the City of San Mateo detailing 
progress made toward the provision of services as described in Attachment "A".  Reports are due by 
the 15th of the month following the end of each quarter.  Organization shall include an Annual 
Report, in addition to the final quarterly report, which summarizes the achievement of stated 
outcomes for the program year. 
 
7. 
SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION:  If Organization materially fails to comply with any term of an award, 
whether stated in a State statute or regulation, in a State plan or application, a notice of award, or 
elsewhere, the City may take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances:  
 
A. 
Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the grantee or 
subgrantee or more severe enforcement action by the awarding agency,  
34 of 186

--- page 35 ---
B. 
Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity 
or action not in compliance 
 
C. 
Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award for the grantee’s or subgrantee’s program,  
 
D. 
Withhold further awards for the program, 
 
E. 
Take other remedies that may be legally available. 
 
8. 
INTEREST OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS:  No members, officers, employees or agents of the City, shall have any 
interest, direct or indirect, in this agreement or a related subcontract. 
 
9. 
REVERSION OF ASSETS:  If the Organization is dissolved or ceases to exist, any grant funds on hand at the 
time of its dissolution shall be accounted for per Section 5.B and immediately returned to the City.   
 
10. 
ASSIGNABILITY:  Other than as approved by the City, Organization shall not assign this Agreement and shall 
not transfer any interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the City.  Notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary, the Organization may contract directly or indirectly for the provisions of services, 
as described in Attachment “A”, for programs to facilitate home sharing and to preserve affordable housing 
units. 
11.    MEDIATION:  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement; any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to 
by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from 
mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and Conciliation 
Service, or other agreed‐upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing 
party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a 
good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting 
with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless 
the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
12.   HOLD HARMLESS:  Organization agrees to hold harmless, defend, and indemnify the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of Organization’s performance or nonperformance of this Agreement.  
 
13.   INSURANCE:  Organization shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance as 
specified below: 
 
A.     Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1)     Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products‐completed operations, personal & advertising 
injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, 
either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2) 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Organization 
has no owned autoes, hired (Code 8) and non‐owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
35 of 186

--- page 36 ---
2)          Workers’  Compensation:  as  required  by  the  State  of  California,  with  Statutory  Limits,  and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the Organization maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
B.  
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1) 
Additional Insured Status:  The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents are to be covered as additional insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of 
automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the Organization; and on the 
CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf 
of the Organization including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such 
work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement 
to the Organization’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 
and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
2) 
Primary Coverage:  For any claims related to this contract, the Organization’s insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents. Any insurance or self‐insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the Organization’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
 
3) 
Notice of Cancellation:  Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall 
not be canceled, except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non‐payment) 
has been given to the City. 
 
4) 
Waiver of Subrogation:  Organization hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said Organization may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of 
any loss under such insurance.  Organization agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be 
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether 
or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
5) 
Deductibles and Self‐Insured Retentions:  Any deductibles or self‐insured retentions must be 
declared to and approved by the City. The City may require the Organization to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and 
related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.   
6) 
Acceptability of Insurers:  Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s 
rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
7) 
Verification of Coverage:  Organization shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
amendatory endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by 
the City before work commences.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the Organization’s obligation to provide them.  The City 
reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, 
including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
14.   NONDISCRIMINATION: 
 
36 of 186

--- page 37 ---
A. General:  No person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, religious affiliation or 
non‐affiliation, marital status, medical condition, sex, age, disability status, sexual orientation or 
political affiliation, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits, or be subjected to 
discrimination or harassment under this agreement. 
 
B. Employment:  Organization shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards 
of recruitment, selection, promotion, classification, compensation, performance evaluations, and 
management relations, for all employees under this agreement.  Organization's personnel policies shall 
be made available to City upon request. 
 
15. 
 GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California.  In the 
event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
16. 
PROJECT REPRESENTATION:  The City and Organization hereby designate the following agents to act as 
project representatives and receive all notices in the execution of this agreement. 
 
 
CITY:   
 
 
 
Nicky Vu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Housing Specialist 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
 
 
 
 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
ORGANIZATION:   
 
Kate Comfort Harr   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human Investment Project (HIP Housing) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800 S. Claremont #210 
 
 
 
 
 
 
San Mateo, CA 94402‐4022   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This agreement has been duly executed by the following parties: 
 
ORGANIZATION: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
a municipal corporation 
Human Investment Project (HIP Housing) 
 
By:   
By:  
 
 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
Date:  
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
 
 
 
37 of 186

--- page 38 ---
EXHIBIT A – PROJECT SCOPE 
1. 
PROJECT SUMMARY: The scope of work funded by the contract covers two PLHA elligible activity 
categories. In the first activity, funds will be used to administer HIP Housing’s Home Sharing 
Program which interviews and screens clients for housing, provides a housemate, alternative 
housing, and community resources to clients with the potential of matching persons in 
affordable home sharing arrangements. HIP Housing will match 14 San Mateo residents in Home 
sharing. A minimum of 40 current home sharing matches in San Mateo will be maintained. In the 
second activity, HIP Housing will use PLHA funds to preserve 147 low‐income units by offsetting 
operations costs that will support housing services through their Home Sharing, Self‐Sufficiency, 
and Information and Referral Programs. 
 
2. 
PRIMARY GOALS AND OUTCOMES:   
 
 
A. Goals:  
 
1) Increase the number of affordable housing opportunities for poverty‐ moderate 
income level residents of the City of San Mateo. 
2) Prevent homelessness for City of San Mateo residents by providing referrals, 
supportive services, and preserving affordable housing.  
3) Increase the number of City of San Mateo residents educated about the Home 
Sharing Program, increasing awareness of the benefits of the program and 
increasing the number of clients who apply to the program.  
4) Decrease housing costs for City of San Mateo residents. 
5) Serve 5‐7 households representing 7 adults and 10 children through the Self 
Sufficiency program. 
 
B. Objectives:  
 
1) Interview, screen and place residents who have housing with those seeking a 
place to live, reducing costs for both parties and increasing stability in their 
housing. 
2) Provide housing opportunities for homeless persons, those at‐risk of 
homelessness, persons transitioning from shelters and other vulnerable 
populations, such as emancipated Foster Youth, domestic violence clients and 
persons with disabilities.  
3) Increase the number of clients applying to home sharing through outreach 
efforts so more residents will find affordable housing through home sharing.  
4) Reduce housing costs for those placed in housing to 30% of less of their income. 
 
C.    Major Activities:  
 
1) Provide information about home sharing; interview and screen applicants; 
complete application; provide housing and community referrals; match clients in 
shared housing; facilitate Living Together Agreements; conduct mediation and 
follow‐up support to matched clients. 
2) Collaborate with service providers such as Life Moves, CID, Core Service 
Agencies, County Mental Health, Safe Harbor, Peninsula Family Services and 
other agencies to coordinate housing resources for clients. 
3) Distribute home sharing outreach materials throughout community; conduct 
monthly presentations; attend networking meetings with service providers; send 
monthly email on available HIP Housing rooms to community; conduct in‐service 
trainings.  
38 of 186

--- page 39 ---
4) During home sharing interview, collect data on income and housing costs of 
clients. Once matched in home sharing, compile statistics on percentage of 
income spent on housing.  
 
D. Indicators:  
1) Goal number one: 
i. Number of residents calling for information and resources.  
ii. Number of households interviewed for program and with application 
completed. 
iii. Number of people placed in shared housing with Living Together 
agreement completed. 
iv. Matched clients are contacted quarterly for follow‐up. 
2) Goal number two: 
i. Track demographics of clients, including information on income and 
housing status. 
ii. Document where client was referred from and is being referred to. 
iii. Track number of home visits made to persons with disabilities and 
seniors. 
3) Goal number three: 
i. Track type of outreach completed in City of San Mateo and County‐wide.
ii. Track number of presentations made. 
iii. Track how residents learned about Home sharing program. 
iv. Track number of meetings attended and other outreach activities. 
4) Goal number four: 
i. Affordability of housing measured by percent of income spent on 
housing. 
ii. Track information in database of clients housing costs prior to home 
sharing and during home sharing. 
 
E. Outcomes:  
 
1) Serve 80‐100 San Mateo Households and place 14 San Mateo residents including 
Home Providers and Home Seekers. 
2) Homelessness is prevented for 36 City of San Mateo residents by matching them 
in shared housing.  
3) 3500 outreach materials will be distributed; 30 presentations will be conducted; 
monthly emails will be sent; 30 networking meetings will be attended; 33‐40 
residents will apply for home sharing services through outreach efforts.  
4) Maintain housing costs of those matched in home sharing to 30% of less of their 
income.  
 
3. 
TIMELINE: The agency will provide expenditures from July 1, 2022 – June 30, 2023. Below is the 
timeline: 
 
A. Interviewing, screening, and processing client applications: 8‐10 Monthly 
 
B. Providing housemate referrals and connection to community & other housing resources: 
Weekly contact with clients to provide resources. 
 
C.    Matching clients in home sharing arrangements: 1‐2 Monthly 
 
39 of 186

--- page 40 ---
D. Provide Bilingual Services to clients including English; Spanish; Cantonese; German; and 
Tagalog: Ongoing. 
 
E.    Check ins with homebound older adults and persons with disabilities: 1‐2 per month 
 
F.    Maintain regular business office hours (Monday‐Friday) at 800 S. Claremont #210, San 
Mateo. 
 
G. Sign Language Interpretation facilitated through Partners in Communication: As Needed.
 
H. Facilitation of Living Together Agreements: 1‐2 monthly 
 
I.    Follow up support with home sharing matched clients including mediation as needed: 
Quarterly with matches involving seniors; ongoing contact with other matches as 
needed. 
 
J.    Community outreach to raise awareness 
 
K.    Preservation of affordable units: ongoing 
 
 
4. 
INCOME VERIFICATION: The program shall serve and benefit low income San Mateo residents. 
HIP Housing shall obtain and then verify income data through personal interviews with each 
potential client. HIP Housing’s Income and Demographic Verification form will show income 
and demographic information for all members of the household and include signatures of all 
adult household members. Supporting documentation for the determination of income status 
for Home Seekers will include: 
A. One month’s worth of recent paycheck stubs  
B. Other forms of income documentation in the event that paycheck stubs are unavailable: 
a. Pension or benefit program statement (if applicable) 
b. Social security award letter (if applicable) 
c. Bank Statements 
C. Self‐certification of income will only be used in extraordinary circumstances and will not serve 
as the default method of income verification.  If a client self‐certifies their income, they must 
complete the section of the income statement providing an explanation for why they are 
unable to provide primary source documentation of income. 
 
Client signatures on the certification forms must be available on file for review at all times. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40 of 186

--- page 41 ---
EXHIBIT B ‐ FY 2022‐2023 AGREEMENT BUDGET 
Agency: Human Investment Project (HIP Housing) 
 
  
 
Activity: Home Sharing Program 
Budget Line Item 
San Mateo
Other Funding
Total Program
Labor 
 
 
Program Coordinators 
15,000.00
495,601.94
510,601.94
Supervisory Staff 
‐
147,066.00
147,066.00
Fringe Benefits 
‐
123,991.81
123,991.81
Operational Costs 
 
 
Office Supplies 
‐
5,574.00
5,574.00
Mileage 
‐
‐
‐
Program Supplies 
1,000.00
54,700.00
55,700.00
Staff Training 
1,500.00
4,970.00
6,470.00
Other Operational Expenses 
7,500.00
144,716.04
152,216.04
Total 
25,000.00
976,619.79
1,001,619.79
 
 
 
 
Activity: Affordable Housing 
Preservation (Applied to all 
programs‐ Home Sharing & Self 
Sufficiency Program) 
 
Budget Line Item 
San Mateo
Other Funding
Total Program
Labor 
 
 
Program Coordinators 
35,000.00
821,274.32
856,274.32
Supervisory Staff 
15,000.00
225,638.16
240,638.16
Fringe Benefits 
7,500.00
171,766.67
179,266.67
Operational Costs 
 
 
Office Supplies 
1,000.00
7,361.00
8,361.00
Mileage 
‐
‐
0.00
Program Supplies 
‐
66,656.50
66,656.50
Staff Training 
1,500.00
12,100.00
13,600.00
Other 
 
 
Operations/Maintenance 
20,000.00
460,283.57
480,283.57
Total 
80,000.00
1,765,080.22
1,845,080.22
 
41 of 186

--- page 42 ---
1 
 
 
 
 
 
HIP Housing Funding Request to the City of San Mateo 
FY 2022-2023 
 
Request: HIP Housing respectfully requests a grant in the amount of $105,000 from the City of San Mateo. If 
awarded, this grant will be used to: 
  
1. Replace support for HIP Housing Home Sharing Program previously provided by City of San Mateo 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)/RDA program ($25,000) 
2. Offset HIP Housing’s programs funding losses due to increased operating costs for our City of San 
Mateo based properties ($80,000) 
  
Organization Overview: HIP Housing’s mission is to invest in human potential by improving the housing and 
lives of people in our community. Our programs provide homes to 1,400+ low-income individuals, families, 
and seniors throughout San Mateo County annually through three innovative programs – the Home Sharing 
Program, Self Sufficiency Program, and Property Management and Development. 
 
HIP Housing Partnership with the City of San Mateo: HIP Housing was founded in the City of San Mateo in 
1972 and has called the City home for all 50 years. It has historically partnered with the City for support in 
two ways: 1) program funding from CDBG and 2) collaboration in affordable property preservation.  However, 
in recent years, both have been notably impacted.  
 
Program Funding Decreases:   
 
1. Community Development Block Grant (CDBG): The City of San Mateo CDBG program supported our 
Home Sharing Program from FY 2011-2012 to FY 2020-2021 for an average of $17,800 annually. 
Prior to CDBG, the City funded the Home Sharing Program from the Redevelopment Agency in the 
amount of $25,000 annually. Due to rigorous client income verification and reporting requirements, 
which clients were often unable to meet due to limited resources/access to resources, we were 
unable to continue accepting CDBG funding.  
 
On annual average, Home Sharing staff have interviewed, screened, and provided housing assistance 
to 280 individuals who either work, live or go to school in the City of San Mateo per year and 
matched 36 individuals in housing. Additionally, we have provided housing information and referrals 
to 418 individuals living in the City of San Mateo.  
 
2. Property Income from San Mateo Based Preservation Properties:  The second way the City of San 
Mateo and HIP Housing have worked together is for the acquisition and preservation of multi-family 
apartment buildings.  HIP Housing currently owns and operates six housing complexes in the City of 
San Mateo representing 147-units of deed restricted affordable housing that are home to 226 low-
income people.   
 
In the past 5-years, operating costs for our San Mateo owned properties have increased rapidly.  We now 
receive nearly $90,000 less in annual income from our properties than in years past.  This is especially difficult 
for us as because unlike market rate apartment owners, HIP Housing is not able to raise rents to 
accommodate new fees. On behalf of the entire HIP Housing team, our Board of Directors, and our clients, 
thank you for your past support and for your consideration of our funding request of $105,000.  
 
 
 
 
 
42 of 186

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-4682
File ID: 22-6513
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Mobile Parking Revenue Collection – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with PayByPhone Technologies Inc. to assign the agreement to PayByPhone 
US Inc. and authorize the Public Works Director to approve future amendments within the scope of the agreement and its 
existing dollar amount of $219,000.
BACKGROUND:
The PaybyPhone system was first implemented in 2016 as a pilot program to allow patrons the ability to pay for parking via 
their smartphone at two surface parking lots in downtown. Following the successful pilot implementation, the City 
expanded PayByPhone as part of the Downtown Parking Technology Project. 
In October 2020, City Council approved a three-year service agreement with PayByPhone Technologies Inc. to offer mobile 
parking revenue collections throughout downtown at all on-street meters and pay stations and City-owned parking 
facilities. The current agreement has a not-to-exceed amount of $219,000, which includes the transaction fee for each 
PayByPhone transaction.
PayByPhone recently notified staff they are moving all United States-based clients to their new entity name, PayByPhone 
US Inc. As such, Amendment No. 1 transfers the terms and conditions in the current agreement to PayByPhone US Inc., 
including all rights, interests, and obligations. If approved, there would be no change to the current agreement’s not-to-
exceed amount or term.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1
Att 2 – Agreement with PayByPhone Technologies Inc.
43 of 186

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
44 of 186

--- page 45 ---
P a g e  | 1               
ASSIGNMENT AND AMENDMENT  
TO THE AGREEMENT FOR MOBILE COMMERCE SERVICES 
 
This Assignment and Amendment (the “Amendment”) is made with effect ______________ (the “Amendment 
Effective Date”) between PayByPhone Technologies Inc. (“PayByPhone”), PayByPhone US Inc. (“PayByPhone 
US”), and the City of San Mateo (“City”). 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
A. PayByPhone and the City entered into the Cooperation and Service Agreement as of October 28, 2020 (the 
“Agreement”), for the provision of mobile commerce services at parking facilities and metered stalls owned 
and/or managed by the City; 
 
B. PayByPhone wishes to assign all of its rights, interests, and obligations in and to the Agreement to its 
wholly owned State of Delaware subsidiary, PayByPhone US, and PayByPhone US wishes to assume all of 
such rights, interests, and obligations. 
 
C. Pursuant to Section 13 of the Agreement, the Agreement cannot be assigned by PayByPhone without the 
prior written consent of the City; and 
 
D. The City wishes to consent to the assignment of the Agreement and the parties wish to amend the 
Agreement as set out herein with such amendments to be made effective as of the Amendment Effective 
Date; 
 
 
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein, and for other good and 
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, PayByPhone, PayByPhone US  
and City hereby agree as follows: 
 
1. Assignment and Assumption. As of the Amendment Effective Date, PayByPhone shall assign to 
PayByPhone US and PayByPhone US shall assume all rights, interests, and obligations of PayByPhone 
under the Agreement.  On such assignment and assumption, Client releases PayByPhone from any and all 
obligations under the Agreement and from any and all claims arising after the Amendment Effective Date.  
All references in the amended Agreement to “Contractor” will be read as references to PayByPhone US 
Inc. only.  In the following limited circumstances, “Contractor” will also include PayByPhone 
Technologies Inc.: 
 
a. 
To extend the Client’s obligations in sections 7 and 8 of the Agreement to cooperate in protecting 
intellectual property from unauthorized use and confidential information from disclosure to the 
intellectual property and confidential information of both PayByPhone and PayByPhone US.  
 
The parties acknowledge that, following the Amendment Effective Date, where necessary, PayByPhone US 
will utilize PayByPhone’s systems and technologies and will provide services under the amended 
Agreement under a license from PayByPhone.   
 
2. Deliverables for Assignment.  If required under the Agreement, PayByPhone US will, within a reasonable 
time following execution of this Amendment, deliver evidence of insurance coverage and business 
registrations to Client in the same or substantially similar form as the evidence PayByPhone provided prior 
to this Amendment. 
 
3. Force and Effect. Except as set forth in this Amendment, all terms and conditions of the Agreement shall 
remain in full force and effect.  
 
4. Priority Order. In the event of a conflict between the Agreement and this Amendment, the terms of this 
Amendment shall take precedence.  
 
45 of 186

--- page 46 ---
P a g e  | 2  
5. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an 
original and all of which shall be taken together and deemed to be one instrument. The parties further agree 
that a signature transmitted via facsimile shall be deemed original for all purposes hereunder.   
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be executed by their duly authorized 
representatives. 
City of San Mateo 
Signature: _____________________________  
Name:  _______________________________  
Title:  ________________________________  
 
PayByPhone US Inc. 
Signature: _____________________________  
Name:  _______________________________  
Title:  ________________________________  
Notice Address: 
c/o PayByPhone Technologies Inc. 
#403 – 1168 Hamilton St. 
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6B 2S2 
 
With a copy to: legal@paybyphone.com 
 
 
PayByPhone Technologies Inc. 
Signature:  _____________________________ 
Name:  ________________________________ 
Title:  _________________________________ 
46 of 186

--- page 47 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 1 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
        AGREEMENT WITH PAYBYPHONE TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
FOR MOBILE COMMERCE SERVICES 
FOR  
DOWNTOWN PARKING 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and PAYBYPHONE TECHNOLOGIES INC., a British Columbia corporation ("CONTRACTOR" or 
“PAYBYPHONE”), whose address is #403 – 1186 Hamilton Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain mobile commerce services hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 
 
Each party represents and warrants to the other that: 
i) it has the full corporate right and authority, and possesses all licenses, permits, authorizations 
and rights to intellectual property, necessary to enter into and perform this Agreement; 
ii) its entry into and performance of this Agreement do not and will not conflict with or result in 
a breach or violation of any agreement or order by which it is bound; and 
iii) this Agreement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligations enforceable against it in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
47 of 186

--- page 48 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 2 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
This Agreement shall enter into force for a period of three (3) years from the date signed by the CITY, 
with up to three one-year extensions unless earlier terminated in accordance with this Section.   
The contract shall be automatically extended for each additional one-year term up to the maximum of 
three extensions unless one party gives the other party at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of 
its intent not to extend the Agreement.  
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
5.1 
PRICING AND PAYMENT 
CITY agrees to pay the fees, as outlined in Exhibit B, in a total amount not to exceed $219,000 or higher 
amount approved in a written amendment to this agreement signed by both parties. All amounts 
payable hereunder are exclusive of any and all taxes, including taxes applicable on fees paid by the 
consumer, and CITY is responsible for payment of such taxes.  All prices are stated, and CITY shall pay, in 
US dollars.  Payment is due within 30 days of invoicing.  
5.2 
MERCHANT ACCOUNT 
Merchant account refers to CITY’s merchant account set up with CITY’s acquiring bank.  PayByPhone will 
cover the cost of linking one (1) CITY merchant account with PayByPhone’s gateway provider.  CITY 
agrees to cover the cost of merchant account updates including all third party fees and then-current 
PayByPhone Professional Services fees.  See Exhibit B for sample rates.  
5.3 
TRANSACTION TESTING 
PayByPhone reserves the right to execute test transactions from time to time to ensure top performance 
of the system and account. PayByPhone may execute up to ten test transactions per month without 
adjusting the CITY invoice. 
5.4 
THIRD PARTY INTEGRATION 
In the event system changes (such as upgrades) by a third party impact the PayByPhone integration with 
Company sub-systems such as enforcement, CITY agrees to cover any PayByPhone development costs 
required to maintain integration. PayByPhone will notify CITY, in advance, of any such integration costs 
that could be added. 
 
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
Should a party breach a material term and such breach remains uncorrected for thirty (30) days after 
receipt of a notice by the breaching party, the non-breaching party may, in addition to all other 
remedies available at law, terminate this Agreement by providing written notice to the breaching 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
48 of 186

--- page 49 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 3 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
party, without further obligation provided, however, that if the nature of the breach is such that it 
cannot be reasonably cured within such thirty (30) day period, the breaching party will not be deemed 
in default of this Agreement so long as such party commences efforts to effect a cure and is diligently 
pursuing such efforts. Provided, further, that if the breach is as a result of the non-payment of any fee, 
the non-breaching party may terminate this Agreement if such breach remains uncorrected for ten (10) 
days after the breaching party's receipt of notice of such breach. 
 
SECTION 7 - PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
7.1 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
7.1.1 The parties acknowledge and agree that any trademarks, patents, trade names, logos, trade 
dress, domain names, copyrights or licenses therein, or other enforceable intellectual property rights 
and whether in hard or electronic copy (collectively “Intellectual Property”) belonging to the other party, 
given to them under this Agreement is and shall remain the property of that party for the duration of 
the Term of this Agreement. 
 
7.1.2 Except as expressly stated, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or interpreted to convey, 
transfer or assign any Intellectual Property rights to the other party. 
 
7.1.3 Each party reserves the right to approve in advance the use of its Intellectual Property by the 
other party in each and every instance.   
 
7.1.4 Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason the parties will use reasonable endeavours 
to ensure that all such Intellectual Property and material are removed from display and/or destroyed at 
the request of the other party save where such Intellectual Property is held by the parties in compliance 
with any statutory obligations and/or the maintenance of proper records. 
 
7.1.5 The parties undertake that they have all necessary permissions, licenses and rights to use the 
Intellectual Property of third parties for the purposes of this Agreement.  
 
7.1.6 Each party shall indemnify (for the purposes of this clause, the “Indemnifying Party”) the other 
(for the purposes of this clause the “Indemnified Party”) against all actions, claims, proceedings, costs 
and expenses (including reasonable legal fees) arising from any actual infringement of Intellectual 
Property rights of whatever nature insofar as these relate to the Intellectual Property rights developed 
and owned by the Indemnifying Party or licensed to the Indemnified Party which claims, actions or 
proceedings arise as a result of the Indemnified Party’s use of any of the Services, except that the 
indemnity shall not apply to any actions, claims or proceedings which are attributable to any breach of 
contract or negligent act or omission on the part of the Indemnified Party or where such actions, claims 
or proceedings relate to any developments of the services carried out by or at the request of the 
Indemnified Party except where the Indemnified Party knew or ought to have known that such 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
49 of 186

--- page 50 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 4 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
development of the services requested by the Indemnified Party would result in an infringement of 
Intellectual Property rights. 
 
7.1.7 The Indemnified Party shall notify the Indemnifying Party in writing of any such action, claim or 
proceeding and shall not make any admission unless the Indemnifying Party gives prior written consent. 
 
7.1.8 At the Indemnifying Party’s request and expense, the Indemnified Party shall permit the 
Indemnifying Party to conduct all negotiations and litigation.  The Indemnified Party shall give all 
assistance as the Indemnifying Party may reasonably request and the Indemnifying Party shall pay the 
Indemnified Party’s costs and expenses so incurred. 
 
7.1.9 The Indemnifying Party may, at its expense: (i) obtain a license to enable the Indemnified party 
to continue to use the Services, or (ii) modify or replace the Services to avoid any alleged or actual 
infringement or breach, or (iii) terminate the provision of the affected elements of the Services.  Where 
the Indemnifying Party exercises options (i) or (ii) the functionality of such modification or replacement 
shall not materially affect the performance of the Services. 
 
7.2 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION 
 
7.2.1 PayByPhone maintains complete records of all information and data collected or used by 
PayByPhone from, or relating to its customer in relation to this Agreement, including, without limitation, 
any data collected from customers upon registration of a PayByPhone account, data collected on parking 
transactions including financial information, data collected on customers’ mobile devices, and derivative 
data used and stored in PayByPhone databases (the “User Data”). 
 
7.2.2 PayByPhone shall retain exclusive ownership of all rights, including Intellectual Property rights, 
in and to the User Data. 
 
7.2.3 PayByPhone may provide to the City from time to time, throughout the duration of this 
Agreement, part of the User Data for the following purposes: 
i) 
Such that the City may use the User Data for parking enforcement; 
ii) 
In respect of any enforcement proceedings for parking citations or penalties issued by the 
City during the Term of this Agreement until such time as any such proceedings are resolved; and  
 
iv) 
As the City’s internal and external auditors may reasonably request regarding 
compliance by PayByPhone with applicable laws and with its own privacy policy. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
To the extent permitted by the State Public Records Act, neither party will disclose the other party’s 
confidential or proprietary information (and any information provided by the other party that is 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
50 of 186

--- page 51 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 5 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
confidentially maintained or proprietary or which derives value from not being generally known to 
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use) except:  
i) with the other party’s consent; 
ii) to employees, agents and contractors who have a need to know in the discharge of their 
duties and who are subject to a contractual obligation to keep such information confidential 
that is at least as restrictive as this Agreement; 
iii) when required to do so by law or by any binding rule, order or request. 
Each party shall exercise reasonable commercial care in protecting the confidentiality of the other party’s 
confidential information disclosed to it.  
 
For purposes of this Section, the parties agree that confidential or proprietary information does not 
include any information that is (a) already known to the receiving party at the time of disclosure 
hereunder (other than from the other party hereto) as demonstrated by its written records; (b) now or 
hereafter becomes publicly known other than through acts or omissions of the receiving party, or 
anyone to whom the receiving party disclosed such information; (c) disclosed to the receiving party, by 
a third party, under no obligation of confidentiality to the disclosing party or any other party; or (d) 
independently developed by the receiving party without reliance on the confidential information of the 
disclosing party as shown by its written records. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 – DISCLAIMER, INDEMNITY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
11.1      DISCLAIMER 
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, PAYBYPHONE DOES NOT MAKE, AND HEREBY 
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS, ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING 
THE PAYBYPHONE MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICES INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. CITY 
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PAYBYPHONE MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICES AND SERVICES FURNISHED BY 
PAYBYPHONE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY SERVERS OR OTHER 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
51 of 186

--- page 52 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 6 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, APPLICATIONS AND ANY OTHER ITEMS USED OR PROVIDED BY PAYBYPHONE 
OR ANY THIRD PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH PROVIDING ACCESS TO OR HOSTING ANY OF THE 
FOREGOING OR THE PERFORMANCE OF ANY SERVICES BY PAYBYPHONE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT) ARE 
PROVIDED BY PAYBYPHONE “AS IS”. 
11.2       INDEMNIFICATION 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnity CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the 
extend arising out of CONTRACTOR’S negligent performance of this Agreement, except for those claims 
arising out of CITY’s negligence or wilful misconduct.  CONTACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
11.3       LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE FOR CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR INCIDENTAL 
DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY DAMAGES RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE OR PROFITS 
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER IN AN ACTION BASED ON 
CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY, EVEN IF THE PARTY HAS 
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 
11.4       PARKING RATES 
CITY will be given access to confirm the parking rates at each location via the PayByPhone back office 
system. PayByPhone will make every attempt at ensuring the rates are configured correctly; upon 
completion of each location setup, it is the CITY’s responsibility to ensure all rates are configured 
correctly.  Failing to do so shall exclude PayByPhone from any liability.  CITY shall provide PayByPhone 
with sufficient notice of any rates change during PayByPhone standard business hours.   
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
52 of 186

--- page 53 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 7 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
53 of 186

--- page 54 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 8 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
To CITY: 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
PayByPhone Technologies Inc. 
Attn:  Legal Department 
#403 – 1186 Hamilton Street 
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6B 2S2 
CANADA 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
54 of 186

--- page 55 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 9 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
SECTION 23 – NO AGENCY 
 
Each party, in all matters relating to this Agreement, will act as an independent contractor and 
independent employers.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, neither party will have 
authority and will not represent that it has any authority to assume or create any obligation, express or 
implied, on behalf of the other, or to represent the other as an agent, employee or in any other 
capacity.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to have established any agency, joint venture 
or partnership between the parties.  Neither party shall make any warranties or representations on 
behalf of the other party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall be unenforceable or invalid under any 
applicable law or be so held by applicable court decision, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not 
render this Agreement unenforceable or invalid as a whole, and, in such event, such provision shall be 
changed and interpreted so as to best accomplish the objectives of such unenforceable or invalid 
provision within the limits of applicable law or applicable court decisions. 
 
SECTION 25 – FORCE MAJEURE 
 
If performance hereunder is prevented, restricted or interfered with by any act or condition 
whatsoever beyond the reasonable control of a party, the party so affected, upon giving prompt notice 
to the other party, shall be excused from such performance to the extent of such prevention, 
restriction or interference. 
 
SECTION 26 – COUNTERPARTS 
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an 
original and all of which shall be taken together and deemed to be one instrument.  The parties further 
agree that a signature transmitted via facsimile shall be deemed original for all purposes hereunder. 
 
SECTION 27 – CAPTIONS 
 
The captions used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect in any way the 
meaning or interpretation of the provision set forth herein. 
 
SECTION 28 – AGREEMENT APPROVAL 
 
Each party hereby represents and warrants that all necessary corporate and/or governmental 
approvals for this Agreement have been obtained, and the person whose signature appears below has 
the authority necessary to execute this Agreement on behalf of the party indicated. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
55 of 186

--- page 56 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 10 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
 
SECTION 29 – SOPHISTICATION OF PARTIES 
 
Each party to this Agreement represents that it is a sophisticated commercial party capable of 
understanding all of the terms of this Agreement, that it has had an opportunity to review this 
Agreement with its counsel, and that it enters this Agreement with full knowledge of the terms of the 
agreement. 
 
SECTION 30 – CITY’S CONDUCT OF BUSINESS THROUGH AFFILIATES 
 
The parties acknowledge that CITY may carry out its business through affiliates. CITY agrees to cause its 
affiliates to take such actions and to execute such documents as may be reasonably required to give 
effect to this Agreement as though references to CITY in this Agreement were references to CITY and 
those of its affiliates through which it carries on the business of owning and operating parking facilities. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
56 of 186

--- page 57 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 11 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and PAYBYPHONE TECHNOLOGIES INC. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Roamy Valera 
CEO 
Its Authorized Agent 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
57 of 186

--- page 58 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 12 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
SECTION 1 - PayByPhone Mobile Payment Platform And Applications 
1.1  
PAYBYPHONE MOBILE PAYMENT APPLICATION 
PayByPhone agrees to roll out the PayByPhone mobile payment service for use at CITY’s managed and 
owned parking facilities as agreed upon by PayByPhone and CITY, to allow for consumers to pay for the 
use of those facilities through personal wireless devices (e.g., cellular telephones) or other wireless 
systems. 
1.2 
PAYBYPHONE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM 
PayByPhone will operate and manage a software application for CITY that will provide near real time 
information and management reports on the transactions conducted utilizing the PayByPhone Parking 
Payment Application (the “Management Information System”). PayByPhone will host the Management 
Information System on its network. CITY will access the Management Information System through a 
browser-based program installed on CITY’s computer hardware. 
1.3 
COMPUTER, NETWORKING AND TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS 
PayByPhone will own or possess, and will operate and maintain, all computer and networking hardware 
and software and data required to operate the PayByPhone mobile payment services service as 
contemplated in this Agreement, other than CITY’s existing computer and telecommunications systems. 
1.4 
MOBILE PAYMENT SERVICE ENFORCEMENT 
CITY agrees to supply Wireless Devices to employees in the field to provide real time confirmation of 
validly parked vehicles. 
1.5 
REPORTS 
PayByPhone will provide CITY with a set of standard reports in the self-serve PayByPhone Service 
Management Interface System.  Any changes or customizations to the standard set of reports will be 
subject to then-current PayByPhone Professional Services fees.  See Exhibit B for sample rates.  
 
SECTION 2 – MARKETING, PROMOTION, AND USER EDUCATION 
2.1 
SIGNAGE 
PayByPhone will provide the first round of signage at CITY’s location offering PayByPhone as mobile 
payment service provider.  PayByPhone will provide one sign to be located at each paystation, plus one 
at each level of the parking structure without a paystation.  Additionally, one decal will be placed on 
each paystation and/or meter.  CITY agrees to provide adequate space for PayByPhone signage at each 
parking facility at which the PayByPhone mobile payment services service is to be available, with sign 
size and placement to be mutually agreed by PayByPhone and CITY acting reasonably. CITY agrees that 
signs will be hung and/or located near payment machines at parking facilities enabled with the 
PayByPhone mobile payment services service.  CITY will be responsible for installation of all decals and 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
58 of 186

--- page 59 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 13 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
signs required for implementation. CITY agrees to supply all future decals and signage, including new 
locations.  CITY agrees to supply replacement decals which may be required in the future. 
 
Standard signage artwork is included in the standard implementation project.  Professional Services 
associated with custom signage or changes to standard signage are billable at the then current 
professional services rates. See Exhibit B for sample rates.  All signage must comply with the PayByPhone 
Consumer Branding Standards.  
2.2     MARKETING EVENTS 
PayByPhone may conduct on-site marketing events and campaigns for the service, whereby PayByPhone 
will inform parking lot consumers of the availability of the PayByPhone mobile payment services as well 
as any promotions available, with the knowledge and approval of CITY which is not to be unreasonably 
withheld.   
2.3      CITY TRAINING 
PayByPhone will provide initial training to CITY using a “Train the Trainer” model on the self-served 
PayByPhone Service Management Interface (SMI).  The said CITY Trainer will, at its own expense, train 
its staff and employees, including patrollers, to operate the mobile payment services and related 
applications and technology.  Additional training sessions are available at the then current professional 
services rates.  See Exhibit B for sample rates 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
59 of 186

--- page 60 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 14 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
 
SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED: 
PayByPhone Mobile Payment Service 
SYSTEM WILL: 
1. Register consumers by phone or online who wish to pay for parking by cell phone or web-enabled 
device. 
2. Activate and collect payment via credit or debit card for parking using PayByPhone in accordance 
with parking rates specified by the CITY and the PayByPhone Terms and Conditions. 
3. Display payment status of license plate, space or meter number on internet-capable handheld device 
such as mobile phone, handheld computer or other Wireless Device for enforcement. 
4. Provide a secure web-based administration interface for rates control, management and accounting 
reports.  
PRICING: 
One Time Setup Fees: 
Mobile payment services setup 
$1,5001 
Each locations setup after initial deployment phase 
$250 
Integration with IPS (data push to Management System) 
Included 
Monthly Fees: 
Monthly minimum 
$1502 
Per Transaction Charges: 
CITY or Consumer pays 
$0.25 
NOTES: 
1. 
One time set-up fee includes, but is not limited to development, testing and implementation of a 
dedicated CITY account within the PayByPhone system; merchant account integration and testing; 
set up and training on reporting, customer service and other elements of the PayByPhone Service 
Management Interface, signage design, marketing coordination.  Setup fees are invoiced at contract 
signing. 
2. 
Monthly fees apply when mobile payment services fees (transaction charges) per calendar month 
total less than as specified here. CITY is responsible for covering the difference between the monthly 
minimum and the total fees. 
3. 
CITY’s own credit card processing and merchant banking fees will apply. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
60 of 186

--- page 61 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 15 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
4. 
In the event that PayByPhone is the only form of payment, the CITY will be responsible for 100% of 
the call centre cost as a pass through. 
5. 
All fees and charges are payable within 30 days of invoicing. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
61 of 186

--- page 62 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 16 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
 
PayByPhone Professional Services Sample Rates Table & Definitions 
 
Resource 
Office Hours Rate per hour 
After Hours Rate per hour 
Senior Architect 
$250  
$315  
Senior Product Manager 
$250  
$315  
Creative Services 
$200  
$250  
Project Manager 
$200  
$250  
Programmer / Developer 
$200  
$250  
Implementation Manager 
$175 
$225 
Consumer Adoption Strategist 
$150  
$200  
 Application Trainer 
$125  
$150  
Support Agent 
$125  
$150  
Tester 
$125  
$150  
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
62 of 186

--- page 63 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 17 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
Resource 
Descriptions 
Senior Architect 
A PayByPhone Architect will lead the definition and 
implementation of the product software architectures. They 
will transform the requirements created by the Product 
Manager into a set of architecture and design documents 
that can be used by the rest of the team to create the 
solution. The PayByPhone Architect is responsible for 
matching technologies to the proposed requirements. 
Senior Product Manger 
A PayByPhone Product Manager specifies market 
requirements for current and future products. Working with 
the Project Manager, software development team, CITY and 
CITY management team, the Product Manager is 
responsible for driving a solution across development teams 
through market requirements, product contracts and 
positioning. 
Creative Services 
The PayByPhone Creative Team will execute highly effective 
and proven design concepts, layouts, graphic elements and 
systems. Our Creative Manager will plan and arrange 
signage, stickers, decals and marketing collateral including 
web content according to the CITY’s parking environment, 
marketing strategies and objectives, taking into 
consideration the usability and visibility of each sign.   
Project Manager 
A PayByPhone Project Manager will create and maintain 
project plans that communicate tasks, milestones, and 
status and resource allocation. Making use of Project 
Management Lifecycle Methodology, they are ultimately 
responsible for project execution. In addition to exercising 
their knowledge of project management best practices, the 
PayByPhone project manager serves as business liaison, 
budget manager, customer relations manager, facilitator, 
negotiator, risk manager, change agent, task tracker, 
problem solver and implementer. 
Implementation Manager 
Manage / coordinate and implement ALL technical aspects 
required to set up the project.  Liaise with Parking Operator 
staff to ensure data is complete and correct. Coordinate 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
63 of 186

--- page 64 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 18 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
internal development resources and provide updates to 
project management and commercial team on timing, 
dependencies etc. Manages the pickle process. Provide 
technical training to CITY personnel. 
Consumer Adoption Strategist 
A PayByPhone Consumer Adoption Strategist will work with 
the key CITY contacts to develop and implement a plan to 
maximize the CITY’s goals for the PayByPhone service.  
Learning from hundreds of CITY implementations, access to 
the latest data analytics and considerable expertise in 
mobile and consumer technology usage are incorporated 
into an ongoing plan to drive maximum usage and customer 
convenience. 
Application Trainer 
A PayByPhone Applications Trainer will design and deliver 
training programs for the PayByPhone system. They will also 
design training course materials and other documents such 
as handouts, manuals and exercises.  Training is typically 
conducted via a web session, either one on one in a train-
the-trainer scenario or in a group setting.   
Support Agent 
A PayByPhone support agent interacts with CITY contacts to 
address inquiries regarding the PayByPhone system, 
reporting interface, log-ins and general administration. 
Tester 
The PayByPhone Quality Assurance (QA) testers will 
thoroughly evaluate, stress-test and troubleshoot all new 
code, programs and software. The PayByPhone QA testers 
will log and prioritized any issues/bugs found and work 
closely with the Software Development team for a 
resolution. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
64 of 186

--- page 65 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 19 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  On an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed 
operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If 
a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  CGL policy extensions including: non-owned automobile liability coverage 
for $1,000,000 and legal liability for damage to hired autos coverage for $50,000. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the applicable jurisdiction, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Cyber Liability: coverage with a limit of no less than $1,000,000. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the CGL policy (including the non-owned automobile liability coverage and legal liability for damage to 
hired autos extensions set out above) with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance. 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
65 of 186

--- page 66 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 20 of 20 
Rev. 9/17 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to the City. The City may request the 
Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to pay 
losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.   
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 11729C5F-5EC5-4E16-A2CA-50C34940572B
66 of 186

--- page 67 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 11729C5F5EC54E16A2CA50C34940572B
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: PayByPhone Agreement_Final.docx
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 20
Signatures: 3
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 1
Alonso Barahona
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 174.250.28.4   
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             10/9/2020 4:37:28 PM
Holder: Alonso Barahona
             abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Roamy Valera
rvalera@paybyphone.com
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 98.203.83.121
Sent: 10/9/2020 4:39:11 PM
Viewed: 10/11/2020 5:59:04 AM 
Signed: 10/11/2020 6:01:04 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 10/11/2020 5:59:04 AM
      ID: 15d08c07-8889-4ed2-89d8-b8bddc77d0f6
Gabrielle Whelan
gwhelan@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 73.93.152.189
Sent: 10/11/2020 6:01:07 AM
Viewed: 10/12/2020 8:53:12 AM 
Signed: 10/12/2020 8:53:34 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 10/12/2020 8:53:12 AM
      ID: 93f0f223-5a9b-4ef8-a4cd-5b47e87f1000
Alonso Barahona
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
Management Analyst
City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 174.250.56.5
Sent: 10/12/2020 8:53:36 AM
Viewed: 10/27/2020 10:01:56 AM 
Signed: 10/27/2020 10:02:02 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Brad B. Underwood
bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org
Director of Public Works
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 76.14.0.98
Sent: 10/27/2020 10:02:04 AM
Viewed: 10/28/2020 12:19:38 PM 
Signed: 10/28/2020 12:19:43 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 10/28/2020 12:18:18 PM
      ID: 4a73c604-acae-4cbe-8698-5a2d9775a9b1
67 of 186

--- page 68 ---
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Alesha Boyd
aboyd@cityofsanmateo.org
Management Analyst
Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 10/28/2020 12:19:47 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Carla Talavera
ctalavera@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 10/28/2020 12:19:48 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Molly Poland
poland@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 10/28/2020 12:19:49 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 10/28/2020 12:19:50 PM
Viewed: 10/28/2020 1:48:46 PM 
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
10/9/2020 4:39:11 PM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
10/28/2020 12:19:38 PM
Signing Complete
Security Checked
10/28/2020 12:19:43 PM
Completed
Security Checked
10/28/2020 12:19:50 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure
68 of 186

--- page 69 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Roamy Valera, Gabrielle Whelan, Brad B. Underwood
69 of 186

--- page 70 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically
70 of 186

--- page 71 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.
 
71 of 186

--- page 72 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR   Account Number : 10-466
File ID: 22-6536
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 6, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project – Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with American Asphalt Repair & Resurfacing Co., Inc. for street repair work for the Citywide Street 
Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project in the amount of $2,874,374 and establish a contingency reserve of $431,000; approve an 
agreement with Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. for construction inspection support in the amount of $278,199.80 and establish 
a contingency reserve of $29,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders within the amount of the contingency reserves.
BACKGROUND:
The Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project (Project) is part of the Public Works Pavement Management Program. 
The Project will repair approximately 17 miles of streets across approximately 95 locations with an Engineer’s Estimate for 
the Project of $3,600,000. 
Agreement with American Asphalt Repair & Resurfacing Co., Inc. (American Asphalt)
The Project was advertised on June 28, 2022, and a total of four (4) bids were received and opened on July 28, 2022. The 
bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount.
Company Name
Total Bid Amount
American Asphalt, Inc.
$2,874,374.00
VSS International, Inc.
Doolittle Construction, Inc.
$2,972,000.00
$3,575,400.00
Pavement Coatings, Inc.
$3,585,590.20
After review of the bid documents, staff determined that American Asphalt’s bid is the lowest responsible and responsive 
bid and therefore recommends awarding the project to American Asphalt.
Agreement with Ghirardelli Associates, Inc.
Public Works does not have sufficient staff resources to inspect and oversee all construction activities. In May 2020, the 
City issued a Request for Proposals for on-call construction management services including inspection, general 
construction management, and specialty support services. Proposals were evaluated and three on-call construction 
management firms were selected: CSG Consultants, Inc., Ghirardelli Associates, Inc., and MNS Engineers, Inc. Staff 
requested proposals from all three on-call consultants and only Ghirardelli Associates and CSG Consultants submitted 
proposals. Staff determined Ghirardelli’s scope and budget are appropriate for the requested support services, and based 
on prior favorable experience working with Ghirardelli Associates, staff recommends awarding the construction inspection 
agreement to Ghirardelli Associates, Inc.
72 of 186

--- page 73 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 2 - Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A 
Project (#467008) to award these agreements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement (American Asphalt)
Att 2 – Agreement (Ghirardelli Associates, Inc.)
Att 3 – Location Map
STAFF CONTACT
Leo Chow, Associate Engineer
lchow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7344
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
73 of 186

--- page 74 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 1 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
AGREEMENT WITH AMERICAN ASPHALT REPAIR & RESURFACING CO., INC. 
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
FOR 
CITYWIDE STREET SLURRY SEAL PACKAGE 2-A PROJECT 
CITY PROJECT NO. 467008-46000-1010-46350 
 
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the 
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called 
"City") and AMERICAN ASPHALT REPAIR & RESURFACING CO., INC., a corporation, with offices at 
24200 Clawiter Road, Hayward, CA 94545 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of 
____________________.   
 
RECITALS: 
 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and 
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement. 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter 
described. 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the 
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled: 
 
CITYWIDE STREET SLURRY SEAL PACKAGE 2-A PROJECT 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 467008-46000-1010-46350 
 
2. 
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of two million eight 
hundred seventy-four thousand three hundred seventy-four dollar ($2,874,374.00) in full payment 
for the work set forth above. 
 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described 
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a 
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and 
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book. 
 
3. 
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this 
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which 
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Numbers 1 and 2 issued to the 
Contract Book, the State of California Standard Specifications 2018 Edition, the State of California 
74 of 186

--- page 75 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 2 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
Department of Transportation Standard Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and 
the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to as the “contract documents”). 
 
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract 
documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, 
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them, 
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed 
by all of the parties hereto. 
 
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so 
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the 
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any 
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. 
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book. 
 
4. 
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the 
Contract Book. 
 
5. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall 
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties 
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, 
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City 
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be 
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may, 
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and 
necessary therefor. 
 
6. 
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. 
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week 
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess 
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit 
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the 
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during 
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in 
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections 
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California. 
 
7. 
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations 
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who 
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering 
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, 
75 of 186

--- page 76 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 3 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for 
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is 
understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the 
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials 
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. 
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776. 
 
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal 
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price 
Index escalator. 
 
8. 
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, 
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement 
by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
9. 
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years 
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement. 
 
10. Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, defend, and 
indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this 
Agreement, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused 
by passive negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents; 
provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or expense 
arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City or (b) the active negligence of 
the City; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract, 
workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer as defined by the 
Insurance Code. Contractor will defend City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims. 
 
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs 
(that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the 
provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees 
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number 
of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Agreement shall have 
to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce 
the provisions of the contract documents. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and 
that any differences will be resolved amicably. 
 
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
76 of 186

--- page 77 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 4 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not 
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  
 
a. 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature 
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the 
plural and vice versa. 
 
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon 
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The 
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued 
in the County of San Mateo. 
 
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract 
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, 
modify, or place any construction on any provisions. 
 
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed 
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to 
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to 
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents. 
 
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, 
77 of 186

--- page 78 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 5 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all 
reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention. 
 
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection 
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any 
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; 
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives. 
 
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be 
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial 
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work 
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements 
of the contract documents. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
78 of 186

--- page 79 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 6 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and AMERICAN 
ASPHALT REPAIR & RESURFACING CO., INC. has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Shel Waggener 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
  
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
79 of 186

--- page 80 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 7 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
Exhibit A  
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five years thereafter, insurance 
against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the 
performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
 
1. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury 
and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location 
(ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
2. 
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
3. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or 
disease.  
4. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
5. 
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
 
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the City. 
 
Self-Insured Retentions  
 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the 
contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its 
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to 
the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. 
The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by 
either the named insured or City. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions  
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1. 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 
38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
2. 
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, 
employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it.  
3. 
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
with notice to the City. 
 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
80 of 186

--- page 81 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 8 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction coverage. Such 
coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest may appear. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an Installation Floater may be 
acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that provides for the improvement, 
remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery 
and equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for any building, 
structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, 
including during transit, installation, and testing at the City’s site. 
 
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies) 
 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. 
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the contract or 
the beginning of contract work. 
2. 
Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five years after 
completion of contract work.  
3. 
If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a 
retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must purchase 
extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five years after completion of contract work.  
4. 
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
5. 
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution 
Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services involve mold 
identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, 
and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
 
Acceptability of Insurers  
 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
 
Waiver of Subrogation  
 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be 
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a 
waiver of subrogation in favor of the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and 
subcontractors.  
 
Verification of Coverage  
 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory 
endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy 
of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work 
begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, at any time.    
  
Subcontractors  
 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements stated 
herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. 
For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
 
Surety Bonds  
 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. 
Bid bond 
2. 
Performance bond 
3. 
Payment bond 
81 of 186

--- page 82 ---
Construction Contract 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Rev 7/21 
4. 
Maintenance bond 
 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the Performance 
Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If the warranty period 
specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is 
required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the 
State of California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances 
 
82 of 186

--- page 83 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
AGREEMENT WITH GHIRARDELLI ASSOCIATES, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
CITYWIDE STREET SLURRY SEAL PACKAGE 2-A PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Ghirardelli Associates, Inc., a corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 1970 
Broadway, Suite 1220, Oakland, CA 94612. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain professional inspection services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional inspection 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
83 of 186

--- page 84 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on issuance of the Notice 
to Proceed (“NTP”) and be completed within 12 months of issuance of the NTP. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $278,199.80, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
84 of 186

--- page 85 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit B to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
85 of 186

--- page 86 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
86 of 186

--- page 87 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. 
Attn:  Randall Bruner, President 
1970 Broadway, Suite 1220, Oakland, 
CA 94612 
 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
87 of 186

--- page 88 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
88 of 186

--- page 89 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Ghirardelli Associates, Inc. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch  
Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Randall Bruner 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
89 of 186

--- page 90 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
 
 
SCOPE OF WORK 
Ghirardelli is proud to bring its experience with similar slurry seal projects. Our approach for this type of project is built 
around the qualifications and experience of our staff and lessons learned from previous projects with the City of San 
Mateo. Our team realizes that the success of any construction project depends on the ability of the construction 
management team to proactively identify and anticipate issues and resolve these potential issues promptly before 
they impact the project budget and schedule. 
Ghirardelli will provide construction inspection services on the project, including, but not limited to the following: 
• 
Inspect and observe construction contractor’s work daily for compliance with the contract documents, 
environmental documents, state laws, regulations, etc. 
• 
Provide construction contractor with acceptability or deficiencies in work and required actions for contract 
compliance. 
• 
Maintain daily inspection reports of work, including photos, descriptions of daily activities, any corrective 
actions to be taken by the Contractor, persons and equipment onsite, and any other pertinent information. 
• 
Review of materials and equipment delivered to site for compliance with submittals and contract 
documents. 
• 
Coordinate and provide material testing as required. 
• 
Review of construction contractor’s compliance with all permits, stormwater regulations and permits 
(SWPPP), and environmental documents. 
• 
Review of construction contractor’s compliance with health and safety standards and regulations and 
reporting of non-compliance. 
• 
Monitor record documents to ensure proper maintenance and completion by contractor. 
• 
Develop punch list and perform other project closeout activities, as needed. 
Daily Inspection Reports 
Ghirardelli’s inspectors (Cesar Lara and Keith Baty) will prepare a daily report for each construction day. The inspector’s 
daily reports will be provided to the City’s Resident Engineer. This information will be used for the preparation and 
evaluation of the monthly progress estimates, non-compliance issues, construction delays, compliance tests, CPM 
schedule review, liquidated damages, and claims. The daily reports will include the following information: 
• 
Date, project identification, contractor’s name, subcontractor’s name(s), and time of inspections. 
• 
Conditions (weather, moisture, soil, etc.); any inclement weather conditions that hampered or delayed the 
contractor’s operations. 
• 
Activities detail. Scheduled activities including starting and completion dates. Bid item numbers of all 
activities should be listed in the daily report. 
• 
Difficulties encountered by the contractor. 
• 
Controversial matters (disputes, questionable items, etc.). 
• 
Deficiencies and violations (including construction work, safety, labor, etc.). 
• 
Record of manpower, construction equipment, and materials testing locations and results. 
Materials Testing 
Ghirardelli’s Inspectors (Cesar Lara and Keith Baty) will coordinate all materials testing with BSK Associates. All 
materials testing (field and laboratory) will be performed at the frequency established by the contract documents 
including the City’s Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) and the Caltrans Construction Manual. Mr. Lara will review the test 
reports for compliance and maintain the required documentation, including a non-conformance log to assure that all 
failed tests are retested until meeting compliance. 
90 of 186

--- page 91 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
 
FEE PROPOSAL 
Below is the estimated fee for the Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A Project based on our review 
and understanding of the plans and specifications along with our correspondence with the City. 
Ghirardelli estimates that our fee will be $278,199.80. 
 
Hourly Rates 
PW BILL RATE 
First Shift 
Second Shift 
NAME 
ST 
OT 
DT 
ST 
OT 
DT 
Cesar Lara (Lead Inspector) 
$169.12 
$240.99 
$321.31 
$185.33 
$258.29 
$331.24 
Keith Baty (Backup Inspector) 
$179.70 
$269.56 
$359.41 
$187.59 
$269.56 
$359.41 
 
 
Fee Breakdown 
Lead Inspector (Cesar Lara) 
960 hours 
x 
$169.12/hour 
= 
$162,355.20 
Lead Inspector (Cesar Lara) 
40 hours 
x 
$240.99/hour 
= 
$   9,639.60 
Backup Inspector (Keith Baty) 
320 hours 
x 
$179.70/hour 
= 
$ 57,504.00 
Materials Testing (BSK Associates) 
$ 48,701.00 
Total Fee Estimate                                                                                                                                      $278,199.80 
 
 
Fee Assumptions 
1. Lead Inspector hours based on:  
a. 120 working days (960 hours) of work conducted during the First Shift at the Standard Rate.  
b. 40 hours of work conducted during the First Shift at the Overtime Rate.  
2. Backup Inspector hours based on 40 working days (320 hours) of work conducted during the First Shift at the 
Standard Rate.  
3. Rates and Fees are valid for the duration of the contract.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
91 of 186

--- page 92 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
 
COST ESTIMATE SUMMARY FOR MATERIALS TESTING 
 
City of San Mateo 
Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A 
City Project No. 467008-46000-1010-46350 
Quality Assurance (QA) Construction Materials Testing 
 
FIELD SERVICES 
DAYS 
HRS/DAY 
HOURS 
RATE 
EXTENSION 
Earthwork Construction 
Compaction Testing Base Failure Repairs - Group 3 Engineering Technician HMA Sampling 
and Testing - Group 3 Engineering Technician 
Slurry Seal - Group 3 Engineering Technician Nuclear Gauge 
Equipment Fee 
Trip Charge 
Trip Charge (Mileage, Bridge Toll, Parking Fees) 
4 
1 
15 
5 
20 
8 
8 
8 
32 
8 
120 
$135.00 
$135.00 
$135.00 
$64.00 
$75.00 
$4,320.00 
$1,080.00 
$16,200.00 
$320.00 
$1,500.00 
FIELD SERVICES ESTIMATE $23,420.00 
 
LABORATORY TESTING 
FREQUENCY 
SETS/UNITS 
RATE 
EXTENSION 
Base Repairs 
Modified Proctor, 6" Curve 
as required 
2 
$286.00 
$572.00 
Theoretical Maximum Density (CTM 309) 
1 per mix 
1 
$286.00 
$286.00 
HMA Testing 
Sieve Analysis - 3 Bin Samples (AASHTO T27) 
1 per 750 tons 
1 
$285.00 
$285.00 
Sand Equivalent (AASHTO T27) 
1 per 750 tons 
1 
$144.00 
$144.00 
Aggregate Moisture Content (AASHTO T255) 
1 per 750 tons 
$49.00 
$0.00 
Percent Crushed Particles (AASHTO T335) 
1 per project 
1 
$189.00 
$189.00 
LA Rattler (AASHTO T96) 
1 per project 
1 
$327.00 
$327.00 
Flat and Elongated Particles (ASTM D47915) 
1 per project 
1 
$144.00 
$144.00 
Fine Aggregate Angularity (CTM 234) 
1 per project 
1 
$92.00 
$92.00 
Asphalt Binder Content (AASHTO T308, Method A) 
1 per 750 tons 
1 
$256.00 
$256.00 
Ignition Oven Correction Factor 
1 per mix 
1 
$595.00 
$595.00 
Theoretical Maximum Density (CTM 309) 
1 per 750 tons 
1 
$286.00 
$286.00 
HMA Core Unit Weight/ Bulk Specific Gravity (CTM 308) 
if required 
$167.00 
if required 
Slurry Seal 
Sieve Analysis of Fine & Coarse Aggregate (C136) 
1 per day 
15 
$190.00 
$2,850.00 
Sand Equivalent (ASTM D2419) 
1 per day 
15 
$144.00 
$2,160.00 
Durability Index (CTM 229) 
1 per day 
15 
$286.00 
$4,290.00 
Abrasion by LA Rattler 
1 per day 
15 
$269.00 
$4,035.00 
Percent Crush Particles 
1 per day 
15 
$189.00 
$2,835.00 
Viscosity - Emulsion (AASHTO T59) 
1 every 5 days 
3 
$115.00 
$345.00 
Sieve Test - Emulsion (AASHTO T59) 
1 every 5 days 
3 
$95.00 
$285.00 
Particle Charge - Emulsion 
1 every 5 days 
3 
$165.00 
$495.00 
Residue by Evaporation - Emulsion (ASTM D244) 
1 every 5 days 
3 
$110.00 
$330.00 
LABORATORY TESTING ESTIMATE 
$20,801.00 
 
BSK SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 
HOURS 
RATE 
EXTENSION 
Registered Engineer (Review, support and reporting) 
6 
$230.00 
$1,380.00 
Project Manager (Field Oversight, Daily Report Review) 
8 
$230.00 
$1,840.00 
Administration (Data Processing, Report Prep., Field Coordination) 
4 
$90.00 
$360.00 
Certified Payroll / DIR Upload 
Monthly 
3 
$300.00 
$900.00 
ADMINISTRATION ESTIMATE 
$4,480.00 
TOTAL BUDGET ESTIMATE 
$48,701.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
92 of 186

--- page 93 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
EXHIBIT B 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
93 of 186

--- page 94 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 12 
Rev 5/22 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
94 of 186

--- page 95 ---
SHOREVIEW
SUGARLOAF
HILLSDALE
BERESFORD PARK
HAYWARD PARK
MARINA LAGOON
NORTHWEST HEIGHTS
NORTH CENTRAL
DOWNTOWN
WESTERN HILLS
±
Citywide Street Slurry Seal Package 2-A
Location Map
US 101
SR 92
ECR
ADLP
Hillsdale
Norfolk
Peninsula
US 101
SR 92
SR 92
ADLP
ECR
ECR
City of Burlingame
City of Belmont
City of Foster City
City of San Mateo
95 of 186
Legend: 
Work location:

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 22-6549
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Contingency Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an increase to the contingency reserve associated with the Anvil Builders, Inc. construction contract for the Dale 
Avenue Pump Station Upgrade project in the amount of $3,500,000 for a total of $5,500,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program includes various projects to improve the City of San Mateo’s sanitary sewer system to improve 
flow management and increase capacity to prevent sanitary sewer overflows. Included in the Basins 2 and 3 project is the 
upgrade of the Dale Avenue Pumping Station (DAPS), which consists of the replacement of mechanical, electrical, and 
instrumentation equipment in the pump station, along with other upgrades and an increase in pump station capacity. 
On October 7, 2019, City Council awarded an agreement with Anvil Builders, Inc. (Anvil) for construction of the DAPS 
Upgrade project in the amount of $20,142,000, established a contingency reserve of $2,000,000, and authorized the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement and issue change orders within the contingency amount. The contingency 
reserve was established to address and mitigate potential unknowns that may arise during construction and was 
approximately 10% of the agreement value. To date, approximately $1.8 million of the contingency has been utilized to 
issue negotiated change orders, and additional change orders are under negotiation that are anticipated to require the 
remaining contingency amount. An increase to the contingency reserve is now requested because the remaining balance is 
not sufficient to address upcoming change orders that are still being designed, reviewed, and negotiated. 
Based on the currently known and anticipated scope of work, staff has estimated a potential cost impact of approximately 
$3,000,000 to $3,500,000. The remaining contingency balance is not sufficient to issue a contract change order of this 
amount and time is of the essence to procure the necessary equipment due to lengthy vendor lead times. To reduce 
contract time extensions, streamline procurements, and provide flexibility for staff to negotiate contract change orders in 
a timely manner, staff recommends increasing the contingency reserve. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The initial authorized agreement with Anvil for construction was in the amount of $20,142,000. The original contingency 
reserve established was $2,000,000. This request increases the contingency by $3,500,000 to a total of $5,500,000. 
Funding for this additional contingency amount is available within the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements 
project. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
96 of 186

--- page 97 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
97 of 186

--- page 98 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 22-6560
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Temporary Standby Generator for Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure to enter into an agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. for a 
temporary standby generator required to support the Dale Avenue Pump Station Upgrade project in an amount not-to-
exceed $222,090.41 for an estimated period of ten months; establish a contingency reserve of $110,046; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
This City Council item was originally brought before the City Council as a consent calendar item at its regular meeting on 
August 15, 2022.  However, the agenda report recommendation inadvertently omitted the adoption of a resolution for the 
approval of an alternative purchasing procedure.  That procedure and the agenda report addressed an agreement with 
Herc Rentals, Inc. for the rental of a temporary standby generator for the Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS) Upgrade 
project.  This City Council action remedies the inadvertent error in the August 15, 2022 agenda report. 
The Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements (Basins 2 & 3) is a Clean Water Program project that increases capacity 
and improves flow management to prevent sanitary sewer overflows in several areas throughout the City, including at 
DAPS. The DAPS Upgrade project comprises force main refurbishment, pump station equipment upgrades, and 
replacement of the existing emergency standby generator. 
In October 2019, City Council awarded an agreement to Anvil Builders, Inc. (Anvil) to construct the DAPS Upgrade project. 
Much of Anvil’s scope is nearly complete; however, there is still work associated with installation of the permanent 
emergency standby generator. The emergency standby generator at DAPS provides backup power supply for the pumps 
and facility during a power failure scenario. Due to permitting requirements to comply with the latest air quality emission 
standards, installation of the new emergency standby generator will take approximately ten more months to complete. 
While installing the new generator, a temporary standby generator is required to ensure continuous power capability. 
To date, Anvil has utilized Herc Rentals, Inc. (Herc) as a subcontractor to provide a temporary generator for the DAPS 
Upgrade project. Anvil includes an industry standard 18% markup on the temporary generator costs to facilitate their 
subcontract with Herc. Since a temporary generator will be required for approximately ten more months, it is proposed 
that the temporary generator be procured directly by the City to save on markup costs, which equate to approximately 
$3,800 per month. 
Staff requested quotes from four temporary generator rental vendors. The only response and quote received was from 
Herc.  Therefore, staff recommends awarding an agreement to Herc, and establishing a contingency of $110,046 to cover 
98 of 186

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the rental costs for five additional months, if needed. 
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the City Council may approve other alternative purchasing
procedures upon a finding by the City Council prior to or concurrent with the award of contract that the procedures are in
the best interests of the City for the particular contract. Based on the above facts, staff recommends that City Council 
adopt a resolution approving an alternative purchasing procedure based on a finding that it is in the best interests of the 
City and approve the continued rental of an emergency generator from Herc Rentals, Inc.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements project to fund the agreement with 
Herc Rentals, Inc. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The resolution addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This 
project is subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of 
which are included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that 
was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
99 of 186

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.
(2022)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH HERC RENTALS, 
INC. FOR A TEMPORARY EMERGENCY STANDBY GENERATOR REGARDING THE DALE AVENUE PUMP 
STATION
WHEREAS, the Dale Avenue Pump Station (DAPS) Upgrade Project comprises force main 
refurbishment, pump station equipment upgrades, and replacement of the existing standby generator; 
and
WHEREAS, due to permitting requirements to comply with the latest air quality emission standards, 
installation of the new emergency standby generator will take approximately ten more months to complete; 
and
WHEREAS, while installing the new generator, a temporary emergency standby generator is 
required to ensure continuous power capability; and
WHEREAS, staff requested Anvil Builders, Inc., the contractor for the project, to facilitate the 
rental of a temporary emergency standby generator, which includes an 18% markup; and
WHEREAS, the markup of the temporary emergency standby generator rental would cost less if 
the City directly procured the rental; and
WHEREAS, the City requested written quotes from four vendors and received one response 
from Herc Rentals, Inc.; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the City Council may 
approve other alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding by the City Council prior to or 
concurrent with the award of contract that the procedures are in the best interests of the City for the 
particular contract; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of an agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc. for the 
continued rental of a temporary emergency standby generator for the Dale Avenue Pump Station because 
it is competitively priced and ensures safe operations until a new generator is installed.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1.
The agreement addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support 
the Clean Water Program. This project is subject to the requirements of the California 
Environmental Act (CEQA), the general components of which are included as part of the 
Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that 
was prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council 
on June 6, 2016.
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the proposed agreement with 
Herc Rentals, Inc. is in the best interest of the City because:
100 of 186

--- page 101 ---
a)
An emergency standby generator located at the Dale Avenue Pump Station needs to be replaced to 
satisfy regulatory compliance; and
b)
Herc Rentals, Inc. has supplied a temporary emergency standby generator at a competitive 
price through Anvil Builders, Inc.; and
c)
The City requested written quotes from four rental vendors, and received one written quote 
from Herc Rentals, Inc.; and
d)
Procuring a temporary emergency standby generator directly from Herc Rentals, 
Inc. would save the City from contractor markup costs.
3.
The agreement with Herc Rentals, Inc., for the supply of a temporary emergency 
standby generator, in an amount not to exceed of $222,090.41, with a contingency 
of $110,046, is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement on behalf of the 
City and issue change orders within the contingency amount in substantially the form 
submitted.
5.
The City Council action of August 15, 2022 approving the subject agreement with 
Herc Rentals, Inc. is hereby rescinded.  
101 of 186

--- page 102 ---
Purchase Contract 
 
Page 1 of 1 
Rev 9/17 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. 
NO SUBSTITUTIONS accepted without approval of City of San 
Mateo (“City”). 
2. 
Prices must be F.O.B. destination.  DO NOT ship collect. 
3. 
The City is EXEMPT from payment of FEDERAL EXCISE TAX 
under Chapter 32, IRS Code.  Federal Tax ID #94-6000422.  Items are 
for the exclusive use of the City and not for resale. 
4. 
MAIL invoices in duplicate to:  
        City of San Mateo, 330 W 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403 
5. 
The Lessor assumes all risks in connection with the merchandise 
ordered until delivery to City as specified and accepted by City. 
6. 
Merchandise is subject to inspection and test by City at the place 
of destination.  If any merchandise is found at any time to be defective 
or nonconforming, the City, in addition to all other rights, shall have 
the right, in whole or in part, to reject and return the merchandise at 
Lessor’s expense and to receive full credit for it, or to require its 
replacement without additional cost to City. 
7. 
City may terminate this agreement and be relieved of the payment 
for any consideration if Lessor fails to perform the terms of this 
contract at the time and in the manner required. The cost to City shall 
be deducted from any sum due the Lessor under this agreement, and 
the balance, if any, shall be paid to the contractor upon demand. 
8. 
Lessor warrants that all goods and services supplied to City 
hereunder are fit for City’s intended purpose, are free from design 
defects, are good quality, and free from defects in material and 
workmanship, and do not infringe upon any patents, trademarks, 
copyrights, trade secrets, or other industrial or intellectual property 
rights.  These warranties shall survive any inspection, delivery, and 
acceptance.  All goods and services provided to City shall comply with 
all federal, CAL OSHA, and local safety rules and regulations. 
9. 
Billing shall occur on the date of acceptance of the merchandise 
or on the date of receipt of invoice, whichever is later. 
10. Waiver.  City’s waiver of a breach of term is not deemed a waiver 
of any subsequent breach of the same term. 
11. Cost of Litigation.  If legal action is necessary to enforce this 
contract, the prevailing party is entitled to receive all costs and 
expenses including reasonable attorney’s fees and reasonable costs of 
arbitration or litigation up to a maximum of $5,000. 
12. No Subcontracting or Assignment.  Lessor shall not subcontract 
the purchase contemplated by this agreement, or assign this agreement, 
without City’s prior express written authorization. 
13. Invalidity.  In the event any provision or portion of this agreement 
is held to be unenforceable or invalid by any court of competent 
jurisdiction, the remainder of the agreement shall remain in full force 
and effect. 
14. Entire Contract.  This is the entire agreement between the parties.  
Any modification must be in writing and signed by all parties. 
15. Termination.  If provider fails to perform at the time and in the 
manner required by this contract, City may terminate the contract by 
giving written notice to Lessor and paying the reasonable and 
proportionate amount for services already provided. 
16. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between the language 
of these terms and conditions and any other document or attachment 
hereto, the language of these terms and conditions shall control. 
17. Interest of Contractor.  Lessor covenants that it presently has no 
interest, and shall not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial 
or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
 
18. Contractor's Status.  It is expressly agreed that in the performance 
of the services required under this Agreement, Lessor shall at all times 
be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the City as to the result of the work but 
not the means by which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall 
be construed to make Lessor an agent or employee of City while 
providing services under this Agreement. 
19. Indemnity.   Lessor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of 
Lessor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising 
out of City’s sole negligence or willful misconduct.  Lessor agrees to 
defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
against any such claims. 
20. Non-Discrimination.  Lessor warrants that it is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable regulations 
governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither Lessor nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person 
because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, 
medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona 
fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair 
Employment and Housing Act. 
21. Mediation.  Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any 
party may request that it be submitted to mediation.  The parties shall 
meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the 
American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of 
Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. 
   The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted 
to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a 
good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, 
unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
22. Litigation.  Lessor shall testify at City’s request if litigation is 
brought against City in connection with Lessor’s services under this 
Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by Lessor, or is based upon 
CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, City shall compensate Lessor for 
preparation for testimony, testimony, and travel at Lessor’s standard 
hourly rates at the time of actual testimony. 
23. Notices.  All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and 
mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: 
 
To City: City of San Mateo, 330 W 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA 
94403 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To Lessor: Herc Rentals, 7727 Oakport Street, Oakland, CA 
94621 
  
 
24. Governing Law and Venue.  This Agreement shall be governed by 
the laws of the State of California and, in the event of litigation, venue 
will be in the County of San Mateo. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, City and Lessor have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
________________________________ 
Name:  __________________________ 
Title:  ___________________________ 
Dated:  __________________________ 
 
Lessor: ________________________________ 
Name: ________________________________ 
Title:   ________________________________ 
Dated: ________________________________ 
 
 
102 of 186

--- page 103 ---
Show R.A. Number on all Correspondence

RESERVATION AND a 1 R.A.No. 54294958
RENTAL CONTRACT HercRentals

Page 1 of 2
BRANCH: 705 BILLTO CUSTOMER: 1286364 SHIPPING ADDRESS
HERC OAKLAND PROSOLUTIONS CITY OF SAN MATEO DALE AVE PUMP STATION
7727 OAKPORT STREET 330 WEST 20TH AVE 1025 PATRICIA AVE
OAKLAND, CA 94621 SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1338 SAN MATEO, CA 94401
510-633-2040
650-823-1266
DESCRIPTION/CHARGES
EST START: 9/01/22 11:26 EST RETURN: 6/30/23 11:26 DROP DATE:
SHIPPED BY: ORDERED BY: ROB LEARNMONTH DROP TIME:
ORDER DATE: 7/29/22 SALESPERSON: 407 SALES COORDINATOR:
PO# / JOB#: TBD / DALE AVE PUMP STATIO
Qty Equipment # Hrs/ Min Hour Day Week Month Amount
1 1000KW GENERATOR DSL 8/ 2160.00 360.00 2160.00 5568.00 16500.00169320.00
5012100
ER CHG:
CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001 1269.90
20 CABLE 4/0 50FT CAMLOCK 8/ 23.00 3.83 23.00 65.00 126.00 26120.00
9400815
HR CHG:
CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001 195.90
12 FEMALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER 10FT 8/ 2.00 33 2.00 7,00 15.00 1848.00
9400870
HR CHG:
CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001 13.86
12 MALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER 10FT 8/ 2.00 33 2.00 7.00 15.00 1848.00
9400880 -
HR CHG:
CA PROPERTY TAX RECOVERY FEE 2217999001 13.86

* * * Items are priced per piece * * *

SALES ITEMS:
Qty Item number Unit Price
160 PREVENT MAINT $4.00 EA 4.000
3770000001 - PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE
CONTINUED

CAREFULLY READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THAT APPEAR BELOW AND ON REVERSE SIDE OF THIS PAGE ("TERMS")

RENTAL PROTECTION PLAN. Herc Rentals inc. or its affiliate ("Herc") may offer the Rental Protection Pian ("RPP") for a fee to Customer on certain Equipment and for certain types of loss or damage to limit Customer's liability for property
loss or damage. Customer must either show proof of property insurance as required in Section 8 on reverse side hereof or purchase RPP. In return for the RPP fee, if RPP covers such repair or replacement at time of claim, Herc agrees to
waive certain claims for accidental damages to or theft of such covered Equipment occurring during normal and careful use. Customer remains liable for all other damages as set forth in the Terms. RPP IS NOT INSURANCE. If Customer
accepts RPP and pays Herc the RPP fee, Herc will limit Customer's responsibility for the Equipment repair or replacement cost to $500 or 10% of {he fepair 1 replacement cost per item, incl ng ax, whichever is less. Upo faccanting
RPP, Customer agrees to pay an RPP fee equal to 15%. Customer must review the RPP Terms and Conditions posted on Hero’s website at __https:/Maaw.herctentals.com/us/program$/rental-protection-pian/terms-and-conditions. dt
before deciding whether to accept RPP. TO THE EXTENT HERC DOES NOT OFFER RPP TO CUSTOMER, OR CUSTOMER DOES NOT ACCEPT RPP, CUSTOMER MUST MAINTAIN THE INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED BY
PARAGRAPH 8.PLEASE BE AWARE THAT IF CUSTOMER DOES NOT ELECT TO TAKE RPP AND IT ELECTS TO MAINTAIN INSURANCE COVERAGE, AND IF THE CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE PROVIDED TO HERC TO
EVIDENCE SUCH INSURANCE COVERAGE IS UNACCEPTABLE TO HERC OR THE APPLICABLE POLICIES EXPIRE, CUSTOMER AGREES THAT HERG MAY CHARGE RPP FOR ALL APPLICABLE RENTALS UNTIL SUCH TIME
AS AN ACCEPTABLE AND VALID CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE IS PROVIDED AND SUCH MATTERS ARE CORRECTED TO HERC'S REASONABLE SATISFACTION. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY NOTATION ON THE RENTAL
RECORD, RPP IS NOT OFFERED ON OR AVAILABLE FOR THE RENTAL OF A PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. NOTWITHSTANDING PAYMENT OF THE RPP FEE, RPP DOES NOT APPLY, AND CUSTOMER IS LIABLE FOR, ALL
DAMAGES TO OR REPLACEMENT COST OF, THE EQUIPMENT, AS APPLICABLE, AND ANY ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND EXPENSES OF HERC: (1) CAUSED BY THE EQUIPMENT BEING USED OR OPERATED IN VIOLATION OF
ANY OF THE TERMS; (2) IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, AS DETERMINED IN HERC’S SOLE DISCRETION; AND/OR (3) IF COVERAGE IS EXCLUDED UNDER THE RPP TERMS AND CONDITIONS POSTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE.

A detailed description of fees and surcharges that may be applicable to Customer's rental can be found on Here's | tHE EQUIPMENT IS RENTED BY HERG TO THE CUSTOMER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS. CUSTOMER

website at https //www.hercrentals.com/us/programs/services-and-associated-chart es. htmlCustomer agrees REPRESENTS HAVING READ AND AGREED TO SAME.
to pay, in additfon to all rental charges, all fees and charges set forth [above] and, the following charges as PARAGRAPH 11 ON THE BACK OF THIS PAGE IS IN LIEU OF {)) ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
A A

applicable: {i) based on Customer's possession and/or use of the Equipment, all consumables, fees, licenses, STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND THE

present and future taxes and any other governmental charges, (ii) additional charges for more than one shift use; IMPLIED WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE; AND (ii) ALL OBLIGATIONS ON THE PART OF

(iii) freight, delivery, pick up, transportation charges, {iv) transportation service surcharges (v) repairs and
replacement per this contract, (vi) cleaning charge for Equipment returned with excessive dirt, concrete and/or HERC TO CUSTOMER FOR DAMAGES.
paint; (vil) fees for lost keys (vil) refueling service charges, (vil) fines for use of dyed diesel fuel in on road CUSTOMER WAIVES ALL INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF

Equipment; (ix) preventative maintenance charges and (x) emissions and environmenta! surcharges and fees, (xi) | OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE RENTAL, MAINTENANCE,
wate license fees. HERC COLLECTS THESE FEES AND CHARGES AS REVENUE AND USES THEM AT ITS USE, OPERATION, STORAGE, ERECTION, DISMANTLING OR TRANSPORTATION OF THE EQUIPMENT.
DISCRETION.

Customer is obligated to return the Equipment in a good, clean, and uncontaminated condition, free of any and all hazardous substances.

Terms are due upon receipt Not valid without Barcode

IMI

Customer Name Title

UU

Customer Signature Date I
For GREAT DEALS on USED EQUIPMENT - visit us on-line at HercRentals.com

&nbsp;
103 of&nbsp;186


--- page 104 ---
RESERVATION AND
RENTAL CONTRACT

HercRentals”

Show R.A. Number on all Correspondence

R.A.No. 54294958
Page 2 of 2

BRANCH: 705

BILL TO CUSTOMER: 1286364

SHIPPING ADDRESS

HERC OAKLAND PROSOLUTIONS
7727 OAKPORT STREET

OAKLAND, CA 94621

CITY OF SAN MATEO
330 WEST 20TH AVE

SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1338

DALE AVE PUMP STATION
1025 PATRICIA AVE

SAN MATEO, CA 94401

510-633-2040
650-823-1266

DESCRIPTION/CHARGES

EST START: 9/01/22 11:26 EST RETURN: 6/30/23 11:26 DROP DATE:
SHIPPED BY: ORDERED BY: ROB LEARNMONTH DROP TIME:
ORDER DATE: 7/29/22 SALESPERSON: 407 SALES COORDINATOR: ZACH YAWORNISKY
PO#/ JOB#: TBD / DALE AVE PUMP STATIO
Qty Equipment # Hrs/ Min Hour Day Week Month Amount
SALES ITEMS:
Qty Item number Unit Price
160 PREVENT MAINT $4.00 EA 4.000

3770000001 - PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE

DELIVERY CHARGE 340.75

PICKUP CHARGE 340.75

*** Delivery Instructions ***

P.O.C ROB LEARNMONTH 650-823-1266 Sub-total: 202591.02
Taxable Sub-total: 202591.02 Tax: 19499.39
Total: 222090.41

TRANSPORTATION-DRIVER WAIT TIME is charged if a driver spends more than 20 minutes waiting to
unload/load Equipment after scheduled delivery/pickup time. Wait time is $20 for each 20-minute
period thereafter. Customer is responsible for daily maintenance, fuel, damages, and cleaning fees
if Equipment is not cleaned before return. TO END RENTAL CHARGES, Customer must call the branch to

get a release #.

CAREFULLY READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS THAT APPEAR BELOW AND ON REVERSE SIDE OF THIS PAGE ("TERMS")

RENTAL PROTECTION PLAN. Herc Rentals Inc. or its affiliate ("Herc") may offer the Rental Protection Plan {"RPP’) for a fee to Customer on certain Equipment and for certain types of loss or damage to limit Customer's liability for property
foss or damage. Customer must either show proof of property insurance as required In Section 8 on reverse side hereof or purchase RPP. In return for the RPP fee, if RPP covers such repair or replacement at time of claim, Herc agrees to
waive certain claims for accidental damages to or theft of such covered Equipment occurring during normal and careful use. Customer remains liable for all other damages as set forth in the Terms. RPP IS NOT INSURANCE. If Customer
accepts RPP and pays Here the RPP fee, Herc will limit Customer's responsibility for the Equipment repair or replacement cost to $500 or 10% of the te air or replacement Cost er Item, nel ling tax, iuhichever is tess. Upon acceptint
RPP, Customer agrees to pay an RPP fee equal to 15%. Customer must review the RPP Terms and Conditions posted on Here’s website at _ https /Nwwwhercrentais.comius/pro -proteclion-plan/terms-and-condilions.ht
before deciding whether to accept RPP. TO THE EXTENT HERG DOES NOT OFFER RPP TO CUSTOMER, OR CUSTOMER DOES NOT ACCEPT RPP, CUSTOMER MUST MAINTAIN THE INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED BY
PARAGRAPH 8.PLEASE BE AWARE THAT IF CUSTOMER DOES NOT ELECT TO TAKE RPP AND IT ELECTS TO MAINTAIN INSURANCE COVERAGE, AND IF THE CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE PROVIDED TO HERC TO.
EVIDENCE SUCH INSURANGE COVERAGE IS UNACCEPTABLE TO HERC OR THE APPLICABLE POLICIES EXPIRE, CUSTOMER AGREES THAT HERC MAY CHARGE RPP FOR ALL APPLICABLE RENTALS UNTIL SUCH TIME
AS AN ACCEPTABLE AND VALID CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE IS PROVIDED AND SUCH MATTERS ARE CORRECTED TO HERC’S REASONABLE SATISFACTION. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY NOTATION ON THE RENTAL
RECORD, RPP IS NOT OFFERED ON OR AVAILABLE FOR THE RENTAL OF A PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. NOTWITHSTANDING PAYMENT OF THE RPP FEE, RPP DOES NOT APPLY, AND CUSTOMER IS LIABLE FOR, ALL.
DAMAGES TO OR REPLACEMENT COST OF, THE EQUIPMENT, AS APPLICABLE, AND ANY ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND EXPENSES OF HERC: (t) CAUSED BY THE EQUIPMENT BEING USED OR OPERATED IN VIOLATION OF
ANY OF THE TERMS; (2) IN CASE OF NEGLIGENCE, AS DETERMINED IN HERC’S SOLE DISCRETION; AND/OR (3) IF COVERAGE IS EXCLUDED UNDER THE RPP TERMS AND CONDITIONS POSTED ON HERC’S WEBSITE.

A detailed description of fees and Surcharges that may be applicable to Customer's rental can be found on Here’s | tHE EQUIPMENT IS RENTED BY HERC TO THE CUSTOMER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS. CUSTOMER

to pay, in adfon tale crargos-al oes and charges Sta above ard fhe folowing charges ss | REPRESENTS HAVING READ AND AGREED TO SAME.

applicable: (i) based on Customer's possession and/or use of the Equipment, all consumables, fees, licenses, | PARAGRAPH 11 ON THE BACK OF THIS PAGE IS IN LIEU OF (i) ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
present and future taxes and any other governmental charges, (ii) additional charges for more than one shift use; STATUTORY INCLUDING, But NOT LIMITED TO. THe IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY AND THE
(ili) freight, delivery, pick up, transportation charges, (iv) transportation service surcharges (v) repairs and IMPLIED WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A P. CULAR PURPOSE; AND (ii) ALL OBLIGATIONS ON THE PART OF

replacement per this contract, (vl) cleaning charge for Equipment returned with excessive dirt, concrete and/or HERC TO CUSTOMER FOR DAMAGES.

paint; (vii) fees for lost keys (vil) refueling service charges, (vill) fines for use of dyed diesel fuel in on road CUSTOMER WAIVES ALL INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF
Equipment; (ix) preventative maintenance charges and (x) emissions and environmental surcharges and fees, (xi) | OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE RENTAL, MAINTENANCE,
yenicie license fees. HERC COLLECTS THESE FEES AND CHARGES AS REVENUE AND USES THEM AT ITS USE, OPERATION, STORAGE, ERECTION, DISMANTLING OR TRANSPORTATION OF THE EQUIPMENT,

Customer is obligated to return the Equipment in a good, clean, and uncontaminated condition, free of any and all hazardous substances.

Customer Name Tile Terms are due upon receipt Not valid without Barcode

For GREAT DEALS on USED EQUIPMENT - visit us on-line at HercRentals.com

&nbsp;
104 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 105 ---
Quote #: 54294958 Date: 07/29/2022

HercRentals”

Herc Rentals Quotation

Seller: PETE KUHL Branch #: 705
E-Mail: Branch Name: 705 HERC OAKLAND PROSOLUTIONS
Phone: 510-207-8607 Address: 7727 OAKPORT STREET,
City, State: OAKLAND, CA 94621
Phone: 510-633-2040
Name: CITY OF SAN MATEO Site Name: DALE AVE PUMP STATION
Address: 330 WEST 20TH AVE Contact: ROB LEARNMONTH
City, State: SAN MATEO, CA 94403 Address: 1025 PATRICIA AVE,
Phone: 650-522-7399 City, State: SAN MATEO, CA 94401
Phone: 650-823-1266

Dear ROB LEARNMONTH,

Thank you for considering Herc Rentals and taking the time to outline your project needs. In reviewing your project, the Herc Rentals
team is well positioned to meet your requirements. We are pleased to submit our solution, which outlines the project scope, pricing
and support services. We will follow up shortly to answer any questions you may have and define next steps.

8 Scope Of Work
1000 KW Generator
(20) 50' 4/0 cables

(12) female pigtails
(12) males pigtails

Current Project Schedule

Estimated Start Date & Time: 09/01/2022 11:26 AM
Estimated Return Date: 06/30/2023

Once again, thank you for your interest in Herc Rentals, | look forward to working with you on this project. Please do not hesitate to
contact me if you have any questions about this proposal.

Sincerely
PETE KUHL
510-207-8607

Page 1

&nbsp;
105 of&nbsp;186


--- page 106 ---
Quote #; 54294958 Date: 07/29/2022

HercRentals”

Herc Rentals Quotation

1 501-2100 1000KW GENERATOR DSL S $2,160.00 $5,568.00 $16,500.00 $169,320.00
20 940-0815 CABLE 4/0 50FT CAMLOCK S $ 23.00 $ 65.00 $ 126.00 $ 26,120.00
12 940-0870 FEMALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER 1OFT Ss $ 2.00 $ 7.00 $ 15.00 $ 1,848.00
12 940-0880 MALE PIGTAIL 4/0 UNDER LOFT Ss $ 2.00 $ 7,00 $ 15.00 $ 1,848.00

___RentalProtectionPlan
Customer has either elected to provide Certificate of Insurance prior to the rental commencing or will be utilizing Herc's Rental
Protection plan.

_ Estimated Project Cost Based On Scope Of Wark

Equipment : $ 196 136.00
Transportation
Labor

Fuel

Sales / Miscellaneous
Preventative Maintenance
Rental Protection Plan
Emission & Environmental Surcharge
VLF

Transportation Surcharge
‘Estimated Subtotal
Estimated Tox
‘Estimated Total == ss

Additional Taxes & Fees May be applied & Vary by State, Locations & Application
*Please note any PM charges listed are for one billing period

*Please note additional charges may applied if drivers experience wait times/delays during delivery
*Rental Quote is valid through: 10/01/2022

_ Additional infor

Page 2

&nbsp;
106 of&nbsp;186


--- page 107 ---
Quote #: 54294958

HercRentals”

Herc Rentals Quotation

Payment Terms: Net 30 Days

Thank you for your interest in Herc Rentals. Please contact me if you have any questions or comments.

Assuring you our best attention at all times.

Sincerely,
Herc Rentals

Please see our website for a list of services and associated charges at HercRentals.com

Date: 07/29/2022

Page 3

&nbsp;
107 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 22-6423-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 6, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Disposable Food Service Ware Amendments – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance” to 
recodify a hardship exemption and eliminate duplicative language to correct a clerical error.
BACKGROUND:
On August 15, 2022, the City Council introduced the attached ordinance to correct a clerical error, recodifying San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 5.89.060 “Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption,” and removing the 
duplicate section 5.89.060 “Authorization for County Enforcement.”
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
108 of 186

--- page 109 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 5.89 “Disposable Food Service Ware” of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing food service ware is codified at Chapter 5.89 of the San 
Mateo Municipal Code; and 
WHEREAS, the ordinance was amended on April 4, 2022 to align with state laws regulating food 
packaging; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance amendment unintentionally removed San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
5.89.060 “Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption” and replaced it with language that 
duplicated Section 5.89.070 “Authorization for County Enforcement;” and
WHEREAS, this draft ordinance corrects this clerical error by re-codifying San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 5.89.060 “Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption” and eliminating the 
duplicative provision authorizing County enforcement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 5.89.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.060 Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption
(a) Grounds for an exemption. An exemption from any of the provisions of this Chapter may be granted 
by the City upon demonstration by a Food Facility to the satisfaction of the City that strict application of the 
requirements would cause undue hardship. An “undue hardship” includes, but is not limited to the following:
(1) A situation unique to the Food Facility where a suitable alternative that conforms with the 
requirements detailed in Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) does not exist for a specific application.
(2) Imposing the provisions of this Chapter would cause significant economic hardship. 
“Significant economic hardship” may be based on, but not limited to, demonstrating that suitable 
Disposable Food Service Ware is not available at a commercially reasonable price and the additional cost 
associated with providing the Disposable Food Service Ware is particularly burdensome to the Food 
Facility based on the type of operation(s) affected, the overall size of the business/operation, the 
number, type and location of its facilities, the impact on the overall financial resources of the Food 
Facility, and other factors. Reasonable added cost for a suitable item as compared to a similar item that 
the Food Facility can no longer use shall not by itself constitute adequate grounds to support an 
exemption for such item. In determining whether a significant economic hardship has been established, 
the City shall consider the following information: ability of the Food Facility to recover the additional 
expense by increasing its prices; the availability of tax credits and deductions; outside funding; and other 
options.
109 of 186

--- page 110 ---
(b) Request for an exemption. A request for an exemption from the requirements of this Chapter shall 
include all information deemed necessary by the City to render a decision, including but not limited to 
documentation showing the factual support for the requested exemption. A request for an exemption may be 
approved by the City, in whole or in part, with or without conditions. The duration of the exemption, if granted, 
shall also be determined by the City.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. This ordinance amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because 
it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment.  (Public Resources Code 
Section 21065.)
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
110 of 186

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3134
File ID: 22-6594
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Unpaid Code Enforcement Abatement Costs and Citations – 2022 Proposed Property Tax Liens
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the list of properties proposed for tax liens for unpaid Code Enforcement abatement costs 
and citations, and direct staff to forward the list to the San Mateo County Controller’s Office to be included in the current 
year tax roll.
BACKGROUND:
TAX LIENS 
This item was originally brought before the City Council as a consent calendar item at its regular meeting on July 18, 2022. 
However, the agenda report recommendation inadvertently omitted the adoption of a resolution for the approval of the 
list of properties proposed tax liens for unpaid Code Enforcement abatement costs and citations, although it did direct 
staff to forward the list to the San Mateo County Controller's Office to be included in the current year tax roll. This item 
corrects the inadvertent omission, and the proposed resolution has been updated to reflect the fact that all but two of the 
outstanding amounts due have been paid.  
That procedure and the agenda report addressed administrative citations and abatement costs that are intended to be a 
source of cost recovery for the City as it relates to providing code enforcement services. The City of San Mateo adopted 
Municipal Code Section 7.42.050 in 1990 to allow for unpaid fees and citations to be collected by the San Mateo County 
Assessor on the tax roll in the same manner as City general taxes. The City began using this collection method in 2000. This 
was the beginning of a successful annual process to collect fees that are imposed when property owners allow nuisance 
violations to exist at their properties and do not correct the conditions creating the violations after multiple directives to 
do so from the City’s Code Enforcement staff. 
The proposed list of properties identified for tax lien for uncollected Code Enforcement citations and abatement costs for 
fiscal year 2021-22 is included as Exhibit A to the proposed resolution (Attachment 1). Citations are typically issued for 
those types of violations creating exterior blight at a property, while other abatement costs are incurred when the City 
takes action to abate a violation when a property owner fails to do so, including repeat violations at the same property. 
When a citation or fee that was imposed during case processing remains unpaid, the code enforcement officer sends a 
letter to the owners informing them that the fees previously billed are due and payable. This fiscal year, 11 administrative 
citations were issued, and two (2) properties have costs associated with abatement. Of those 11 administrative citations, 
five (5) have been paid and six (6) are outstanding. The abatement costs for the two (2) properties have not been paid. 
Property owners with outstanding balances were sent notifications that their property would appear on the tax lien list if 
payment was not received by July 15, 2022. The notice included that the City Council would review and finalize the list 
during the July 18, 2022, regularly scheduled meeting. Since the July 18 Council meeting, staff has received payment for all 
111 of 186

--- page 112 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
but two of the outstanding amounts due.  Staff has provided another notice to the remaining two property owners of the 
proposed Council action on September 6, 2022, similar to the notice they previously received.
Exhibit A of the proposed resolution provides the status of unpaid and delinquent administrative citations and abatement 
costs as of August 25, 2022. It is anticipated that payments may be made up until the date of the Council meeting on 
September 6, 2022. Staff will provide an updated attachment on the date of the meeting to ensure the list is current when 
reviewed by the City Council. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
This year’s tax lien list as of July 13, 2022 totals $1,646.32. The actual amount may change depending on payments made 
after that date. The City has collected $1,300 in administrative citations during the period of July 2021 through July 13, 
2022.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution and Exhibit A
STAFF CONTACT
Christine Civiletti, Code Enforcement Manager
cciviletti@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7154
112 of 186

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. _____ (2022) 
APPROVING PROPERTY TAX LIENS FOR UNPAID CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS, 
UPAID ABATEMENT COSTS, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES  
 
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 7.42.050, the City Manager is 
authorized to forward amounts of assessments levied against properties during the preceding twelve 
months to the San Mateo County Assessor for collection on the tax rolls; and 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 7.42.040, prior to doing so, the City 
Council will hear all objections to the costs reported, the proposed assessments against properties, and 
may approve or modify the costs reported as it deems appropriate; and   
 
WHEREAS, a public hearing was duly noticed, as required by San Mateo Municipal Code section 
7.42.030, to consider whether certain unpaid administrative citations, abatement costs, and 
administrative fees related to municipal code enforcement actions should be placed on the San Mateo 
County equalized tax roll for collection with real property and other taxes; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council received the report from City staff and all other items and comments 
offered on the issue. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
RESOLVES that: 
1. This Council Action is not subject to CEQA review because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
 
2. The lists of proposed properties for tax lien for Unpaid Code Enforcement 
Administrative Citations and Abatement Fees, set forth in the attached Exhibit A, is 
approved, made and confirmed and shall constitute a special assessment against the 
property designated and if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against the property for the 
amount assessed as of the date of this resolution, until paid. 
 
3. Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 7.42.050, this Resolution, including the 
list of liens and assessments, shall be delivered to the San Mateo County Controller’s 
Office for collection on the current year tax roll in the same manner as for general 
property taxes. 
 
 
113 of 186

--- page 114 ---
Exhibit A
2022 PROPOSED PROPERTY TAX LIEN LIST FOR
UNPAID ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AND ABATEMENT COSTS
Property Owner(s)
Property Address
City, State, Zip
APN
AMOUNT
Date Cited/Charges incurred
Citation#
Owner Address
City, State, Zip
Winnie Pereira 
864 Kathryne Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
033343130
$400.00
07/23/21
1908 864 Kathryne Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
Elizabeth Kioa &/or Taiman109 S. Humboldt St
San Mateo, CA 94401
033132140
$323.16 9/2021, 12/2021, 3/2022, 6/2022
Garbage abatement 109 S. Humboldt St
San Mateo, CA 94401
TOTAL
$723.16
https://cityofsanmateoorg-my.sharepoint.com/personal/cciviletti_cityofsanmateo_org/Documents/Council ARs/2022 Tax Lien/2022 Unpaid citations and abatement updated 8-25-2022
 Updated 8/25/2022
114 of 186

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 22-6599
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Community Relations Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Appointment Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
Appoint Noopur Vyas Anand to the Community Relations Commission vacancy for a full first term through June 10, 2026, 
and place Allison Fitzgerald on the eligibility list for one year, should another vacancy occur. 
BACKGROUND:
On August 29, 2022, the Appointment Subcommittee, consisting of Mayor Rick Bonilla and Council Member Eric Rodriguez, 
with Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager Eloiza Murillo-Garcia advising, interviewed applicants to fill the vacancy 
on the Community Relations Commission left by Nicole Fernandez on June 10, 2022. 
The Appointment Subcommittee interviewed the following applicants: 
•
Allison Fitzgerald 
•
Noopur Vyas Anand 
•
John Medina 
•
Thomas Lease 
The Appointment Subcommittee recommends Noopur Vyas Anand be appointed to the Community Relations Commission 
vacancy and Allison Fitzgerald be placed on the eligibility list for one year, should another vacancy occur. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Boards, Commissions and Committees List
115 of 186

--- page 116 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
116 of 186

--- page 117 ---
Updated 8/22/2022 
 Boards, Commissions & Committees List 
 
 
Term 
 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
Term 
 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
 
 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7220 
Meeting:  3rd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Sheri Boles 
07-19-21 
06-10-26 
1 
Meghan Crowell 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
2 
Vacant 
12-02-13 
06-10-22 
1 
Jerold Nugent, Chair 
06-10-20 
06-10-24 
1 
Sharrie Overall, Vice Chair 
06-10-20 
06-10-24 
 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7212 
Meeting:  2nd & 4th Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m. Council Chambers 
 
2 
John Ebneter, Vice Chair 
06-01-15 
06-10-25 
1 
Adam Nugent 
07-19-21 
06-10-25 
1 
Seema Patel 
06-10-21 
06-10-26 
1 
Margaret Williams, Chair 
07-15-19 
06-10-23 
0 
Martin Wiggins 
06-18-18 
06-10-24 
 
LIBRARY BOARD 
(650) 522-7802 
Meeting:  4th Monday, 5:30 p.m. Main Library Cedar Rm. 
 
2 
Elizabeth De Winter 
07-20-15 
06-10-23 
1 
Lisa Diaz Nash 
09-17-18 
06-10-25 
0 
Rod Linhares, President 
02-16-21 
06-10-24 
1 
Austin Volz, Vice President 
01-03-22 
06-10-26 
0 
Shaylona Wheeler 
01-03-22 
06-10-25 
 
 
 SENIOR CITIZENS COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7400 
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in January 
4:00 p.m. San Mateo Senior Center 
 
0 
Vacant 
01-18-22 
06-10-25 
0 
Liz Foreman 
09-20-21 
06-10-23 
2 
Monika Lee, Vice Chair 
07-18-16 
06-10-24 
1 
Ellen Wang, Chair 
07-20-20 
06-10-24 
2 
Mary Webb 
02-17-15 
06-10-26 
 
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION 
(650) 522-7400 
Meeting:  1st Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Sarah Fields 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
0 
Lindsey Held, Vice Chair 
07-20-20 
06-10-23 
2 
Eric Holm, Chair 
10-06-14 
06-10-23 
2 
J. Christopher Massey, Chair 
09-21-15 
06-10-26 
2 
Heather Wolnick  
07-17-17 
06-10-25 
 
SUSTAINABILITY & INFRASTRUCTURE 
(650) 522-7153 
COMMISSION 
Meeting:  2nd Wednesday, 7:00 p.m. Council Chambers 
 
1 
Adam Loraine 
07-20-20 
06-10-24 
0 
Kimi Narita 
04-05-21 
06-10-23 
1 
Sigalle Michael 
08-15-22 
06-10-26 
2 
Clifford S. Robbins, Chair 
08-06-18 
06-10-26 
1 
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
08-06-18  
06-10-25 
 
PERSONNEL BOARD 
(650) 522-7260 
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday, 7:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
1 
Caiti Busch 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
1 
Debra Kaiser 
06-10-21 
06-10-25 
2 
Gayle Murphy, Chair 
07-20-15 
06-10-26 
1 
Robert Newsom, Vice Chair 
08-19-19 
06-10-23 
1 
Tony Villanueva 
01-19-21 
06-10-24 
 
YOUTH ACTIVITIES COUNCIL (YAC) (650) 522-7432 
Meets twice a month, Coordinator: Brandon Parra 
 
Youth from the following schools represent the voice of San Mateo 
teens:  Aragon – Hillsdale – Serra – San Mateo 
 
 
MOSQUITO & VECTOR CONTROL DISTRICT 
(650) 573-8358 
 
1 
Ed Degliantoni 
09-21-15 
12-31-21 
 
 
0 = appointed to unscheduled opening, eligible to serve a first full term 
1 = in first term currently 
2 = in second (final) term currently 
 
 
 
 
 
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further information, please contact the 
City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications:  Registered Voter of the City of San Mateo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
117 of 186

--- page 118 ---
Updated 8/22/2022 
 
 
Term 
Date 
Appt’d 
Term 
Expires 
 
 
MEASURE S OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE 
(650) 522-7040 
Meeting:  3rd Tuesday of the 2nd month of the quarter (February, May, August, November) at 6:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
2 
Naomi Chin-Fuen Hsu 
02-05-18 
06-10-24 
2 
Richard W. Hedges, Vice Chair 
02-05-18 
06-10-26 
2 
Thomas Morgan 
02-05-18 
06-10-25 
2 
Lisa Diaz Nash, Chair  
02-05-18 
06-10-26 
1 
Vince Siminitus  
11-01-18 
06-10-23 
 
CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE  
(650) 522-7164 
Meeting:  2nd Monday, every other month beginning in January, 4:00 p.m. City Hall (Room C) 
 
Robert Gooyer 
Seema Patel 
Ginger Slonaker 
Stephen Tabler, Chair 
Dianne Whitaker, Vice Chair 
 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
(650) 522-7100 
Meeting:  3rd Thursday of Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct at 3:30 p.m., City Hall (Room C) 
 
Jeff Adams  
Michael Carney  
Chris deLong  
Mark Moroni  
Margaret Taylor, Chair  
 
GENERAL PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE 
Meeting: Varies 
 
Eric Rodriguez (City Council Member) 
Rick Bonilla (City Council Member) 
Seema Patel (Planning Commissioner) 
Adam Nugent (Planning Commissioner) 
Heather Wolnick (Park and Recreation Commissioner) 
Ken Chin (San Mateo Foster City School Board Member) 
 
 
 
Board and Commission Members are appointed by the City Council. To apply for future vacancies, or for further information, please contact the 
City Clerk. Members serve a four-year term of office. Qualifications: Registered Voter of the City of San Mateo. 
 
 
/s/ PATRICE M. OLDS, CITY CLERK 
 
118 of 186

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 22-6600
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package II – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 6 to the agreement with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc., to provide professional design and 
engineering services during construction for Immediate Action Projects Package II in the amount of $30,000, to revise the 
total agreement amount not to exceed $1,592,403.46; extend the term through December 31, 2022; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes significant infrastructure upgrades at the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). 
The Immediate Action Projects Package II (IAP-II) includes scope to improve the aging solids handling systems at the 
WWTP. In August 2017, the City executed a professional design services agreement in the amount of $876,000 with 
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. (Stantec) for IAP-II. Amendment 2 was executed in March 2019, adding $517,930 for 
additional design services and engineering services during construction (ESDC). Amendment 3, executed in May 2021, 
added $79,800 for additional ESDC due to delays in the construction schedule and extended the agreement through 
December 31, 2021. 
The IAP-II project has continued to experience multiple challenges leading to additional construction delays, resulting in an 
extended timeframe during which Stantec's ESDC are necessary. As a result, Amendment 3, executed in December 2021, 
extended the term of Stantec's agreement through March 31, 2022 at no additional cost. Amendment 4 extended the 
term for a month, through April 2022, to allow time to bring Amendment 5 to the City Council, which added $88,673.46 for 
additional ESDC and extended the agreement term to September 15, 2022. The proposed Amendment 6 would add an 
additional $30,000 for a new total not-to-exceed cost of $1,592,403.46 and extend the agreement through December 31, 
2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approving Amendment 6 will increase Stantec's not-to-exceed agreement amount by $30,000 for a revised total 
agreement amount not to exceed $1,592,403.46. The IAP-II project budget includes sufficient remaining unencumbered 
funds to fund this expense. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Council adopted the Final Programmatic EIR for the Clean Water Program on June 6, 2016. In addition, under section 
15301 of the CEQA Guidelines, IAP-II is categorically exempt from CEQA review as repairs and maintenance of existing 
facilities and equipment with negligible or no expansion in use. 
119 of 186

--- page 120 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 6
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
120 of 186

--- page 121 ---
1 
AMENDMENT NO. 6 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. FOR 
Immediate Action Projects Package II 
($876,000 [Original Amount], $517,930 [Amendment 1], $79,800 [Amendment 2], 
$0 [Amendment 3], $0 [Amendment 4], $88,673.46 [Amendment 5]), $30,000 
[Amendment 6]) 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the 
State of California, and Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. (“CONSULTANT”), entered 
into an Agreement for Professional Consulting Services (“Agreement”) on August 29, 
2017 for the WWTP Immediate Action Project Package II (“Project”); and 
WHEREAS, the Agreement includes CONSULTANT’s design services for a 
sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system to be located at the CITY’s wastewater 
treatment plant; and 
WHEREAS, challenges related to the design and/or construction have resulted in 
a non-functional sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system; and 
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT are assessing potential solutions to 
address these challenges; and 
WHEREAS, CITY and CONSULTANT agree that CONSULTANT’s services 
are still required for the Project; and 
WHEREAS, the CITY and CONSULTANT desire to further amend the 
Agreement by extending the term through December 31, 2022, and adding $30,000 in 
funding for CONSULTANT’s design engineering services required to complete the 
construction of the Project that are unrelated to any alleged errors or deficiencies on 
behalf of either party; and  
WHEREAS, this Amendment is not an admission of responsibility or any waiver 
of claims by the CITY or the CONSULTANT, including but not limited to 
CONSULTANT’s claims for compensation for Task 6 Construction Phase Services 
related to the sludge cake hopper and cake pumping system, which CITY contends are 
not reimbursable because the services were required to correct alleged error or 
deficiencies of CONSULTANT. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
1.
Section 8, “Payment,” of the Agreement, first paragraph is amended to
read:
“Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon
submission of a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of
the work performed. In consideration for the full performances of the
121 of 186

--- page 122 ---
2 
 
services and any reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY 
agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials 
not to exceed $1,592,403.46. Requests for payments shall be itemized and 
correspond to the various items of work described in the Scope of Project, 
inclusive of the current Scope of Services as provided therein, and shall be 
based on the rate and cost schedule previously established.” 
 
2. 
Section 7, “Term, Progress and Completion,” of the Agreement, first 
paragraph, is amended to read:  
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and 
be completed by no later than December 31, 2022.”   
 
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CONSULTANT 
Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. 
 
______________________________ 
___________________________________ 
Azalea Mitch,  
 
 
            Kari D. Shively, PE 
Public Works Director 
 
 
Vice President 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
Date:  ____________________ 
 
 
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
_____________________________ 
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney 
122 of 186

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2011
File ID: 22-6603
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
September 06, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Temporary Accounting Services Agreement – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to an agreement between the City and Maze & Associates for temporary accounting services in 
the amount of $81,761 for a new agreement total of $225,876.
BACKGROUND:
On May 2, 2022, the City Council approved an agreement with Maze & Associates (Maze) to provide temporary accounting 
services to support implementation of a new Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 87 and the 
year-end audit. The amount of hours that are currently estimated to be needed to support the Finance Department are 
greater than what was assumed in the agreement, and staff estimates that in order to provide the necessary support to 
complete the year-end audit, additional contract authority of $81,761, which includes a 20% contingency, will be needed.  
Based on the above, staff recommends approval of Amendment No. 1 to the agreement between the City and Maze.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No additional budget appropriations are being requested. Staff backfill costs related to implementation of the enterprise 
resource planning system (ERP) will utilize budget from staff vacancy savings.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 1
Att 2 - Agreement between the City of San Mateo and Maze & Associates
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
123 of 186

--- page 124 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
MAZE & ASSOCIATES FOR
ACCOUNTING SERVICES FOR TEMPORARY SUPPORT DURING ERP IMPLEMENTATION, GASB 87 
IMPLEMENTATION, AND YEAR-END CLOSING SUPPORT
($144,115 [Original Amount] / $81,761 [added amount])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Maze & Associates (“Maze”), entered into an Agreement for accounting services for temporary support 
during ERP implementation, GASB 87 implementation, and year-end closing support (“Agreement”) on 
May 19, 2022; and
WHEREAS, City and Maze wish to amend the Agreement effective September 6, 2022 to 
increase compensation of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONTRACTOR a fee not to exceed the amount of $225,876, pursuant to rates 
stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
124 of 186

--- page 125 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and MAZE & ASSOCIATES have executed this Amendment 
No. 1 on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Drew Corbett
City Manager
Date
Timothy Krisch 
Its Authorized Agent
Chief Executive Officer
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Katherine Yuen Krisch 
Vice President
Date
125 of 186

--- page 126 ---
AGREEMENT WITH MAZE & ASSOCIATES 
FOR ACCOUNTING SERVICES 
FOR  
TEMPORARY SUPPORT DURING ERP IMPLEMENTATION, GASB 87 IMPLEMENTATION, AND YEAR-END 
CLOSING SUPPORT 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of _________ 2022, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
MAZE & ASSOCIATES, a corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 
215, Pleasant Hill, CA 94523. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain accounting services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these accounting services by reason of 
its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
126 of 186

--- page 127 ---
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2022 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2022. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee not to exceed 
the amount of $144,115, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
127 of 186

--- page 128 ---
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
128 of 186

--- page 129 ---
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
129 of 186

--- page 130 ---
To CITY: 
Rich Lee 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Maze & Associates 
Attn:  Katherine Yuen Krisch 
3478 Buskirk Ave 
STE 215 
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
130 of 186

--- page 131 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Maze & Associates have executed this

Agreement the day and year first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

Daa Og sfiafer

Drew Corbett Date
City Manager

APPROVED AS TO FORM

on Coe 1 P/2 7

Linh Nguyen Date
Assistant City Attorney

Attachments:

Exhibit A: Scope of Services
Exhibit B: Payment Rates

Exhibit C: Insurance Requirements

Contract for Services
Rev 7/21

CONTRACTOR

Chief Executive Officer

If a Corporation, can be either 1)
President or 2) Vice President plus
an additional corporate officer
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who
shall sign below.

ADDITIONAL CORPORATE
OFFICER
(if necessary per the above)

Atherine Yuen Kri
Vice President

Page 6 of 10

&nbsp;
131 of&nbsp;186


--- page 132 ---
T  925.930.0902  
Accountancy Corporation 
F  925.930.0135 
3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 215 
E  maze@mazeassociates.com 
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 
W  mazeassociates.com 
April 7, 2022 
Rich Lee 
Finance Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Rich: 
We are pleased to confirm our understanding of the additional services we are to provide for the City of San 
Mateo.  This serves as an addendum to our Consultant Agreement dated July 22, 2021 please refer to that 
contract for our general terms and conditions. 
We will continue to provide various accounting services for the City as deemed necessary up to 40 hours 
per week, from April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022.  The work is scheduled to be performed by 
Cindy Kato.  Her billing rates for the above period are $110 per hour in April and $114 per hour from May 
to September. 
In addition, we will provide the following services for the City as deemed necessary for the City, for the 
period April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022: 
•
Support services for implementation of GASB 87.  This task will be performed by Alex Lam at a
rate of $145/hr.
•
Support services for the fiscal year 2021-22 year-end audit.  In addition to Cindy Kato and Alex
Lam, Maria Munoz will also assist with this task at a rate of $160/hr.
The total contracted fees will not exceed $144,115 for the period outlined above. 
Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please contact me with any questions that you may have. 
Yours very truly, 
Maze & Associates 
RESPONSE: 
This letter correctly sets forth the understanding of the City. 
By: 
________________________________________ 
Title: 
________________________________________ 
Date: 
________________________________________ 
EXHIBIT A
132 of 186

--- page 133 ---
ly MAZE

fh WA .& ASSOCIATES

July 22, 2021

Rich Lee

Finance Director

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20" Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dear Rich:

This letter is to confirm our understanding of the terms and objectives of our engagement with the City of San
Mateo, California, (City) as well as the nature and limitations of the services we will provide.

For the period starting July 22, 2021, through approximately the end of November 2021, we will provide various
accounting services for the City as deemed necessary by the City's Finance staff.

We understand this engagement requires approximately up to 32 hours per week, Work is scheduled to be
performed primarily by Maria Munoz at a rate of $155 per hour and Alex Lam at a rate of $140 per hour. From
time to time, other professionals of our firm may assist in the engagement. Their 2021 billing rates are as follows:

2021
Hourly
Staff Level Rates
Partner $250
Manager $185 to $207
Supervisor $130 to $155
Senior Associates $115
Associates $95

The total contracted fees will not exceed $100,000 for the period of time outlined above.

Our engagement is limited to the period and the accounting services indicated above. As our services are limited
in nature, we do not verify or audit any of the information you provide to us. If we notice that an amount appears
unusual or out of the ordinary we will call it to your attention, but our engagement cannot be relied upon to disclose
errors, fraudulent financial reporting, misappropriation of assets, or noncompliance with laws and regulations that

may have occurred. However, we will inform the appropriate level of management of any material errors and of

any evidence or information that comes to our attention during the performance of our engagement that fraud may
have occurred. We will also report to the appropriate level of management any evidence or information that comes
to our attention regarding noncompliance with laws and regulations that may have occurred unless it is clearly
inconsequential. By your signature below, you understand and agree that you are responsible for preventing and
detecting fraud. Should you wish us to expand our procedures to include additional work and investigations, we
will arrange this with you in a separate engagement letter.

Our fees and costs for work will be billed monthly. The hourly rate stated covers all expenses including mileage
reimbursement. No travel time will be included in our billing.

t 925.930.0902

Accountancy Corporation F 925.930.0135
3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 215 E maze@mazeassociates.com
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 w mazeassociates.com

&nbsp;
133 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 134 ---
Invoices unpaid 30 days past the billing date may be deemed delinquent, and are subject to an interest charge of
1.0% per month. We reserve the right to suspend our services or to withdraw from this engagement in the event
that any of our invoices are deemed delinquent. In the event that any collection action is required to collect unpaid
balances due us, you agree to reimburse us for our costs of collection, including attorneys' fees.

If billings are past due in excess of 90 days of the invoice date, at our election, we may stop all work until your
account is brought current or withdraw from this engagement. The City acknowledges and agrees that we are not
required to continue work in the event of the City’s failure to pay on a timely basis for services rendered as
required by this engagement letter. The City further acknowledges and agrees that in the event we stop work or
withdraw from this engagement as a result of the City’s failure to pay on a timely basis for services rendered as
required by this engagement letter, we shall not be liable for any damages that occur as a result of our ceasing to
render services.

It is our policy to keep records related to this engagement for seven years. However, we do not keep any original
client records, so we will return those to you at the completion of the services rendered under this engagement. It
is your responsibility to retain and protect your records (which includes any work product we provide to you as
well as any records that we return) for possible future use, including potential examination by government or
regulatory agencies. We do not accept responsibility for hosting client information; therefore, you have the sole
responsibility for ensuring you retain and maintain in your possession all your financial and non-financial
information, data, and records.

If a dispute arises among the parties hereto, the parties agree to first try in good faith to settle the dispute by
mediation administered within the county of Contra Costa, California, by a mediation organization, under its
applicable rules for resolving professional accounting and related services disputes before resorting to litigation.
The costs of any mediation proceeding shall be shared equally by all parties.

If, after full consideration and consultation with counsel if so desired, you agree that the foregoing terms shall
govern this engagement, please sign the copy of this letter in the space provided and return the original signed
letter to me, keeping a fully executed copy for your records.

Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please contact me with any questions that you may have.

Very truly yours,
ore 1) nooaSen

Maze & Associates

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
RESPONSE:

This letter correctly sets forth the understanding of the City.
By: Db

Title: Cy Man 4 Str

Date: g/ 4 ZI

&nbsp;
134 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 135 ---
EXHIBIT B
FY22 Year-End Closing Assistance
2021
2022
2022
2022
Actual
Estimated
Hourly 
Estimated
Hours
Hours
Rate
Project Cost
September 
Alex
10
15
145
2,175
$         
August 
Katherine
5
-
                
Maria
56
91.5
160
14,640
         
Alex
76
114
145
16,530
         
Senior Associate
8.5
12.75
120
1,530
           
July 
Maria
4
6
160
960
               
Alex
16
24
145
3,480
           
Senior Associate
2.5
3.75
120
450
               
178
267
39,765
$       
GASB 87 Implementation
Calculation 
Capitalization 
of 
of Leases 
Initial 
Initial 
that are
Evaluation
Measurement
above Threshold
Estimated Number of Leases
15
10
3
Hours per lease
2
5
10
30
50
30
110 Estimated Hours
145
$            
Alex's Hourly Rate
15,950
$       
Average
Number 
Temporary Acccounting Support
Hourly rate
of Hours
Monthly Cost
April 
110
$                         
130
                  
14,300
$             
May
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
June
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
July
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
Aug
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
Sept
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
88,400
$             
Year-end closing assistance
39,765
$          
GASB 87 Implementation
15,950
$          
Temporary accounting support
88,400
$          
Total not to exceed amount
144,115
$       
135 of 186

--- page 136 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the Contractor’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
136 of 186

--- page 137 ---
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
137 of 186

--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 26-3111
File ID: 22-6498
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 6, 2022 
SUBJECT:
31-57 South B Street – Consider a Zoning Reclassification Request
RECOMMENDATION:
Consider a request for Zoning Reclassification; and if approved, introduce an Ordinance to approve a Zoning 
Reclassification for the property at 31-57 South B Street from "Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay - Mixed 
Use" to "Central Business District" and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC, submitted a Planning Application to reclassify the zoning designation of 
the property at 31-57 South B Street (APN 034-154-030) from C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – 
Mixed Use) to CBD (Central Business District). The applicant is requesting the reclassification to match adjacent properties 
to the south and the west that have the same land use designation (Downtown Retail Core) as the subject property, and 
because the site is also located within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area of the Downtown Area Plan, the majority of 
which is zoned CBD.  
The Municipal Code allows for the processing of a Zoning Reclassification as part of a formal Planning Application (PA) that 
includes a development project or as a stand-alone PA without a development proposal. City Council Resolution #98 
(2008) states that a request for zoning reclassification requires a study session before the Planning Commission, and 
Section 27.060.040(b) of the Municipal Code requires a recommendation by the Planning Commission and a final decision 
by the City Council.
On May 10, 2022, the Planning Commission held a study session to review the zoning reclassification request and 
conceptual plans for a future mixed-use office and retail development project at this site. Commission comments were 
generally in support of the reclassification request given its adjacency to the existing CBD zone and potential for train noise 
impacts on residential uses.  
On May 11, 2022, the applicant submitted a formal Planning Application for the Zoning Reclassification but chose not to 
apply for an office/retail development proposal at this time. 
On July 26, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on the Zoning Reclassification that included staff and 
applicant presentations and public testimony. Following a period of deliberation, the Planning Commission rendered a 2-2-
0 vote (with one Commissioner absent); thereby resulting in the lack of a recommendation to approve or deny the Zoning 
Reclassification due to the split vote. A summary of the Commission’s deliberation and staff analysis for the zoning 
reclassification request is included in the Discussion section below, and the draft ordinance is included for reference as 
Attachment 1.   
138 of 186

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DISCUSSION: 
California State law (Government Code Section 65400) provides the City’s legislative body the authority to implement the 
City’s adopted General Plan, so that it will serve as an effective guide for orderly growth and development. To implement 
the General Plan, State law provides the City Council the authority to review and update the City’s zoning ordinance and 
zoning map to ensure that the various land uses authorized by the zoning ordinance are compatible with the objectives, 
policies, general land uses, and programs specified in the General Plan (Government Code Section 65860). 
Site Description 
The project site is 16,413 square feet (0.37 acres) in size and is generally bounded by South B Street to the west, 
commercial buildings to the north, the Downtown Caltrain Station to the east, and First Avenue to the south. The project 
site has a current General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core and is zoned C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood 
Commercial/ Residential Overlay – Mixed Use). 
As part of the Planning Application, the applicant included a justification letter (Attachment 2) that cites several reasons as 
a basis for the City to approve the reclassification of the subject property to CBD. The two primary reasons include that the 
reclassification would match adjacent properties to the south and the west that have the same land use designation 
(Downtown Retail Core) as the subject property, and that the reclassification would link the CBD zoning requirements with 
the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan goals and policies to foster a thriving retail core area. 
General Plan and Zoning Code 
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core. The Downtown Retail Core land use 
designation was established to provide for development of land pursuant to the General Plan and Downtown Plan goals 
and policies to create an emphasis on a strong retail shopping core in downtown. The Land Use, Zoning, and Required 
Frontage Maps are included as Attachment 3. The applicable policies for the Downtown Retail Core area include ensuring 
that new developments “optimize the development potential of property in major commercial areas such as the 
Downtown Retail Core” (GP, LU 2.10) and “preserve the downtown’s core shopping area” (DAP, II.1). A list of applicable 
policies is included as Attachment 4. 
The site has a current zoning designation of C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use) and is 
proposed to be reclassified to CBD (Central Business District). The San Mateo Municipal Code includes different use 
allowances and development standards for C1 and CBD.
The C1 zoning district is intended to create and maintain neighborhood shopping areas with standards that provide for 
compatibility with surrounding residential areas, and allows for retail uses serving the immediate neighborhood, limited 
office space and personal service uses (SMMC 27.30.005 Purpose). With the current zoning designation of C1-2/R5, future 
development projects would be subject to Municipal Code (SMMC 27.30) development standards pertaining to floor area 
ratio (FAR), setbacks, parcel coverage, and R3 development standards for residential uses, which limits density to a 
maximum of 50 units per acre (SMMC 27.22). Under C1-2/R5, the subject site has a maximum of 2.0 floor area ratio (FAR) 
for non-residential projects, and up to 3.0 FAR for projects with residential use as part the project. 
In contrast, the purpose of the proposed CBD (Central Business District) zoning designation is to implement the General 
Plan and Downtown Plan goals and policies to encourage and foster a thriving retail core area in downtown (SMMC 
27.38.010 Purpose). The Municipal Code requirements for CBD include development standards pertaining to floor area 
ratio, ground floor open space, building line and setbacks for open space, retail frontage requirement, and limits density to 
a maximum of 50 dwelling units per acre. Under the proposed CBD zoning designation, the subject site would have a 
maximum FAR of 3.0, with or without any residential component. The reclassification would enable the subject property’s 
zoning designation to align with its General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core. A summary data sheet 
showing the different zoning standards for the two zones is included as Attachment 5. 
Downtown Area Plan 
The project site is also located within the City’s Downtown Area Plan (Plan). The Plan establishes goals and policies to 
139 of 186

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
implement the overall vision of the Downtown area. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include: 
•
Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place 
•
Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses 
•
Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown 
The Downtown Area Plan is comprised of seven sub-areas, including the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area, where the 
subject site is located (See Figure 2 of the Downtown Area Plan). The goals and policies for the Downtown Retail Core Sub-
Area generally encourage a concentration of retail shopping and active commercial uses on the ground floor level, with 
office or residential uses on upper levels to support ground-level businesses. The Plan envisions a future Downtown Retail 
Core that includes a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to fostering retail vitality and Downtown’s 
pedestrian-oriented environment, and providing an entry feature at the entryways to Downtown in the vicinity of South B 
Street/First Avenue intersection (Attachment 4 – Applicable Policies). To implement the goals and policies of the General 
Plan and Downtown Area Plan for the retail core, the City has two tools: CDB development standards and Downtown 
Retail Core Design Guidelines. Both the CDB and the design guidelines were established to work together to implement the 
goals and policies for the retail core area.  Overall, the proposed reclassification to CBD would better align subject project’s 
zoning designation with its current Downtown Retail Core land use designation and align the city’s goals and policies with 
the tools to implement the Downtown Area Plan. 
Housing Crisis Act 
Senate Bill 330 (Housing Crisis Act, Government Code Section 66300(b)(1)(A)) requires the City to review and evaluate 
zoning reclassifications to ensure the change does not constitute a downzoning for residential development purposes 
under the State law. The proposed zoning reclassification does not involve a change in the allowable building height, 
maximum allowable density, or floor area ratio (FAR); nor would it increase requirements for lot size, setbacks, or other 
development requirements or standards that would lessen the intensity of housing. The proposed CBD zoning designation 
also allows for a maximum residential density of 50 dwelling units per acre, which is the same maximum residential density 
allowed for properties in the C1-3/R5 zoning district. Therefore, there would be no net loss in residential capacity as a 
result of this zoning reclassification. 
Zoning Reclassification Findings 
The request for the zoning reclassification to CBD would better align the site with its Downtown Retail Core land use 
designation to maintain downtown’s commercial vitality and continuity within the retail core. The reclassification would 
also be consistent with the Downtown Area Plan because the zoning code provisions for the CBD includes development 
standards that were established to provide a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality 
and the Downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment in the Downtown Retail Core sub-area. While the C1 District’s 
standards and requirements can also support the Downtown Retail Core land uses, they do not directly align with the land 
use and goals and policies of the Downtown Area Plan.
The reclassification would also be consistent with State law (SB 330 Housing Crisis Act) in that it would not change the 
allowed land uses or the maximum allowable residential density. 
PLANNING COMMISSION DELIBERATION AND RECOMMENDATION
The Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, on July 26, 2022, to review the request for Zoning 
Reclassification. The Commission considered information contained in the staff report, staff and applicant presentations, 
and public comment prior to its deliberation. The resulting 2-2-0 tie vote therefore resulted in no action by the Planning 
Commission.  
The two Commissioners in support of the reclassification wanted to achieve greater consistency with the adopted General 
Plan and Downtown Plan; cited the importance of the CBD zoning designation in creating a thriving a retail core because of 
the Required Retail Frontage code provisions; expressed concern that the size of the lot may be too small to accommodate 
ground floor retail, office, and residential uses at the upper levels and pertinent amenities/services; cited the importance 
of concentrating office uses near transit to reduce reliance on vehicles for commute purposes; and highlighted the 
importance of providing housing near transit, but not necessarily on every site that is near transit.
140 of 186

--- page 141 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The other two Commissioners opposed to the request wanted the reclassification request to be reviewed concurrent with 
a development proposal in order to consider it holistically; expressed the need for transit oriented development projects 
that include residential units; articulated concerns that the city is losing sites where housing may be built as many pipeline 
projects appear to be commercial with a few residential units; mentioned the need for more residents to support a vibrant 
Downtown in the evenings; and highlighted the City’s ability to encourage inclusion of housing under the C1 zoning 
designation which incentivizes housing as part of a mixed-use project to gain an additional 1.0 FAR.   
 
It should be noted a study session was held on May 10, 2022, where three of the four seated Planning Commissioners 
reviewed the proposed Zoning Reclassification and a conceptual development project (with one commissioner absent). 
Two commissioners expressed support of the reclassification, and one did not. 
    
Given the split nature of the vote and one absent Commissioner, staff has included a draft ordinance for Council 
consideration. 
NEXT STEPS:
Should the City Council indicate a majority interest in approving the ordinance, staff recommends introducing the 
ordinance by making a motion to approve the recommendation below, and following this meeting staff would bring the 
ordinance back for a second reading and adoption. The ordinance and map amendment would then go into effect 30 days 
after adoption. 
Introduce an ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification for the property at 31-57 South B Street from C1-2/R5 
to CBD and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further environmental review under 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
Should the City Council indicate a majority interest in denying the reclassification, staff would bring back a resolution with 
denial findings based upon the City Council’s input at this meeting. The Council may also direct the applicant to submit the 
development proposal application to consider the zoning reclassification with the full project. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting, on April 11, 2022, in which six members of the public 
attended. Questions and comments were focused primarily on the development project and proposed uses. The 
applicant’s neighborhood meeting summary and presentation are available on the city’s What’s Happening webpage. 
The video recording for both the May 10, 2022 Planning Commission study session and the July 26, 2022 Planning 
Commission public hearing are available on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal. 
Public comments received to date are included in Attachment 6. Any public comments received after publication of this 
agenda report will be forwarded to the City Council for consideration at the public hearing and will be posted to this item 
online as “Post Packet Public Comments.” 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with the processing of this planning application are covered by the applicant fees paid.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
If the Zoning Reclassification is denied, no environmental review is required pursuant to the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. 
If the Zoning Reclassification is approved, staff has included findings for a Categorical Exemption pursuant to the CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15305 (Class 5 – Minor Alterations in Land Use Limitations) because the site has an average slope of less 
than 20 percent and the reclassification would not result in changes in land use or density, the subject property’s General 
Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core would remain unchanged, the maximum 3.0 FAR intensity would not 
141 of 186

--- page 142 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
change, the maximum density of 50 units per acre would remain the same, and the zoning reclassification would be 
consistent with the City’s adopted General Plan and Downtown Area Plan. 
The project is also separately and independently exempt under the “common sense” exemption, CEQA Section 
15061(b)(3), because it can be seen with certainty that the adoption of the zoning reclassification does not involve the 
construction or alteration of facilities that will have a significant effect on the environment. The reclassification to CBD is 
consistent with the General Plan land use designation for the property. Furthermore, any future development of the site 
would be subject to a project specific environmental assessment consistent with the CEQA statues and guidelines in effect 
at that time.      
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code sections 65090 and 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing 
requirements, the notice for this public hearing was published in a local newspaper of general circulation, posted in three 
public facilities, and noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the City Council meeting: 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List,” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list accordance. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Ordinance 
Att 2 - Applicant’s Letter 
Att 3 - Zoning, Land Use, and Required Retail Frontage Maps
Att 4 - Applicable Policies
Att 5 - Summary Data Sheet
Att 6 - Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216
142 of 186

--- page 143 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending the Zoning Map of the City of San Mateo to Reclassify the Site at 31-57 South B Street from C1-2/R5 
(Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay-Mixed Use) to CBD (Central Business District) in Order to 
Implement the General Plan Land Use Policies and Land Use Map
WHEREAS, the property owner (DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC) has submitted a planning application 
(PA-2022-002) requesting zoning reclassification of the property located at 31-57 South B Street (APN 034-154-
030); and
WHEREAS, the California State law (Government Code Section 65400) provides the legislative body of 
the city with the authority to implement the general plan, or elements of the general plan, so that it will serve as 
an effective guide for orderly growth and development; and
WHEREAS, the City Council, as the legislative body of the City of San Mateo, adopted the City of San 
Mateo’s General Plan “Vision 2030” on October 18, 2010, which included land use policies and land use 
designations for properties within the City; and
WHEREAS, the General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core was established to provide 
for development of land pursuant to the goals and policies of the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan; and
WHEREAS, the CBD (Central Business District) zoning designation and Downtown Retail Core Design 
Guidelines were established to work together to implement the General Plan and Downtown Plan goals and 
policies, to improve the quality of the retail core, and to encourage and foster a thriving Downtown Retail Core 
area and; and
WHEREAS, the City Council desires that the zoning classifications for all properties be consistent with the 
land use policies and the land use map of the General Plan; and
WHEREAS, the subject property has a current General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail 
Core and a zoning designation of C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use); and
WHEREAS, the zoning reclassification from C1-2/R5 to CBD would be more compatible with the subject 
property’s Downtown Retail Core land use designation; and
WHEREAS, the zoning reclassification would ensure that subsequent new development at the subject 
property would be subject to CBD development standards and Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines to 
ensure that new development would contribute to a thriving retail core; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed study session on May 10, 2022, at which time 
the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and provided feedback
WHEREAS, on the Pre-Application for the Zoning Reclassification and conceptual design of a 
development project; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Government Code Section 65090 and 65091, the Planning 
Commission held a public hearing on July 26, 2022 pursuant to the notice required by law for zoning 
143 of 186

--- page 144 ---
reclassifications, at which time the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and 
rendered a 2-2-0 vote citing their reasons in support and opposition to the reclassification; and
WHEREAS, the applicant requested the item be scheduled for review by the City Council which is the 
final decision-making body for zoning reclassification requests;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.
At a duly noticed public hearing on September 6, 2022, the City Council of the City of San Mateo 
reviewed and considered the staff report dated September 6, 2022, and attachments thereto, the Categorical 
Exemption, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines as follows:
(a) CONFOMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN. The City Council finds and determines that the proposed 
zoning map amendment and zoning reclassification of the subject property is in conformance with the 
Downtown Retail Core land use designation of the General Plan of the City of San Mateo, because one of the 
main intents of the CBD (Central Business District) is to maintain downtown’s commercial vitality and continuity 
within the retail core.
(b) CONFORMANCE WITH DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN. The City Council finds and determines that the 
proposed zoning map amendment and zoning reclassification is in conformance with 2009 Downtown Area Plan 
because the zoning standards for the CBD (Central Business District) includes development standards that were 
established to provide a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and 
downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment in the Downtown Retail Core sub-area.
(c) INTENT OF ZONING CODE. The zoning reclassification conforms to the purpose of Municipal Code 
Section 27.38.010(c) in that the reclassification ensures that the zoning code provisions regarding the required 
retail frontage area, as designated by the Downtown Plan, would apply to the subject property. Additionally, the 
reclassification provides standards for the use of properties designated as CBD District (Central Business District) 
that regulate and guide future development of the site.
(d) CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW. The City Council finds and determines that the proposed zoning 
map amendment and zoning reclassification of the property located at 31-57 South B Street from C1-2/R5 to 
CBD is consistent with Senate Bill 330 (Housing Crisis Act, Government Code Section 66300(b)(1)(A)) in that:
(1) the proposed change in zoning designation would not reduce the allowable building height, 
maximum allowable density, or floor area ratio (FAR) for residential developments; nor would it increase 
requirements for lot size requirements, setbacks, or other development standards that would reduce 
residential density;
(2) the proposed CBD zoning designation allows for a maximum residential density of 50 
dwelling units per acre, which is the same maximum residential density allowed for properties in the C1-
2/R5 zoning district; and
(3) therefore, there is no net loss in residential capacity.
144 of 186

--- page 145 ---
Section 2. Zoning Map.
The Zoning Map of the City of San Mateo is hereby amended to indicate as follows: the property 
generally known as 31-57 South B Street (APN: APN 034-154-030) as depicted in Exhibit A, attached hereto, shall 
be rezoned from C1-2/R5 to CBD, and the Zoning Map shall be amended to reflect this reclassification.
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, Class 5 Section 15305 (Minor Alterations in Land Use Limitations), adoption of this zoning 
reclassification to amend the City’s zoning map is categorically exempt because the affected area has an average 
slope of less than 20 percent and the reclassification would not result in changes in land use or density. The 
subject property’s General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core, and maximum density of 50 units 
per acre would remain unchanged after the reclassification. The project is also separately and independently 
exempt under the “common sense” exemption, CEQA Section 15061(b)(3), because it can be seen with certainty 
that the adoption of the zoning reclassification does not involve the construction or alteration of facilities that 
will have a significant effect on the environment. The reclassification to CBD is consistent with the General Plan 
land use designation for the property. Furthermore, any future development of the site would be subject to a 
project specific environmental assessment consistent with the CEQA statues and guidelines in effect at that 
time.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
145 of 186

--- page 146 ---
( Att 2 - Applicant's Letter

HARVEST

Manira Sandhir
Planning Manager

City of San Mateo =f ee
EC EV
330 West 20th Avente Lig NNING DIVISION

San Mateo, CA 94403 MAY 5 7 022

t. 4
Dear Ms. Sandhir: Development el

Community

DTSM Donut Delite Venture, LLC (“Applicant”) requests that 31-57 B Street (APN 034-15-4030)
(“Property”) be rezoned from the C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial) zoning district to the CBD
(Central Business District) zoning district. The reclassification would result in the Property having the
same zoning and development rights as properties located immediately to the Property’s south and
west that are in the same Downtown Area Plan Sub-Area and that have the same General Plan,
Downtown Area Plan, FAR, and Required Retail Frontage Zone designations.

Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.80.010(b), the owner of the area proposed to be reclassified has
the right initiate a reclassification. The Applicant owns all of the property requested to be reclassified
and therefore requests initiation of the processing of a reclassification of the Property. In the event the
City determines it appropriate to also reclassify additional parcels within the Downtown Retail Core
fronting B Street (or if other property owners request to be added to the reclassification), the Applicant
owns 50% or more in area of all the property similarly situated south of Baldwin Ave and would
therefore be authorized to request reclassification of such additional property under Municipal Code
Section 27.80.010(a) (see Exhibit A.)

As explained further below, it appears that within the Downtown Area Plan, neighborhood commercial
uses and the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning designation were intended to be limited to the area
north of Baldwin Avenue in the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area and not in the Downtown Retail Core
Sub-Area where the Property is located. It appears that the current neighborhood commercial zoning
designation on the property is contrary to the intent of the Downtown Area Plan and may have been the
result of an inadvertent error or a delay in rezoning the property to be consistent with the Downtown
Area Plan.

As shown on Downtown Area Plan Figure 2 and 4, the Downtown Area Plan Area is divided into several
Sub-Areas. The Property is located within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area. This Sub-Area is located
approximately 3 parcels south of the boundary of the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area to the north.
Baldwin Avenue serves as the boundary between those two sub areas.

1 Because the Property is surrounded on three sides with properties that share the requested CBD zoning district,
such a rezoning would be well supported under the caselaw that analyzes the rezoning of a limited number of
parcels of land. See, e.g., Arcadia Development Co. v. City of Morgan Hill (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1526, 1536.

&nbsp;
146 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 147 ---
df

HARVEST

N

ATA

ua _OF1MW AUS S
HLIOMS TI
“usgluvwyiaa s

|, USPS
___ DOWNTOWN

RETAIL CORE
E GRD AVE a

£ 4TH AVE

Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 2

Downtown Area Plan Neighborhood Commercial Policies

The Downtown Area Plan explains that the future condition of the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area is to
support existing uses “including neighborhood commercial uses along B Street.” Consistent with this
intent, the General Plan and Downton Area Plan designates the private parcels along B Street

“Neighborhood Commercial/Medium-High Density Multi-Family” (the green parcels in the figure below).

&nbsp;
147 of&nbsp;186


--- page 148 ---
bis detu isha Lt fi"

Neen Le

es os on ell

ot ay,
a
a
a

a feneeeceas
ang =e F pal!
a

eee:

i]

o1°t

mosme °
4
@

~ar
a
a
a
_l
I
®
_
a
a
5

OsLYN
ase

Aa: -a-

Ge Pik: Downtoen Plaza GS Medium Density Multi-Family
Neighberhord Commercial!
Downtown Retsa Care TJ Medium-High Density Muli-Famiy
Ge Dewrtown Reta? Core Support, EES) Public Facility- Litrary
Executive Office Co CC OService Commercial
Executive Office’ . z g
BE High Density Muls-Famity Sage homily
Hight Density Muti-Famity Trsispartation Carsigar
oo ~CsLow Density Multi-Family

Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 4

Those same green Neighborhood Commercial parcels have a FAR limitation of 2.0/3.0 which matches
the intensity limitation of the C1-2/R5 zoning designation — 2.0 FAR of commercial uses but an additional
1.0 of FAR is permitted for residential uses. (§ 27.30.050(d); Zoning Code § 27.29.110(c).)

Neighborhood Commercial is defined by the General Plan as “shopping centers serving the immediate
neighborhood and including off-street parking, or, clusters of street facing storefronts. These areas
often include uses such as supermarkets, bakeries, drugstores, restaurants, delicatessens, barber shops,
hair salons, laundromats, hardware stores, dry cleaners, small offices and other personal services.
Characterized by a low to medium FARs of 0.5 to 1.0 and heights 25 feet to 45 feet.” This definition

&nbsp;
148 of&nbsp;186


--- page 149 ---
fh

HARVEST

flows down to the zoning for those parcels with a Neighborhood Commercial/High Density Zoning
designation (C1-2/R). The intent of that district is “to create and maintain neighborhood shopping areas
under standards that provide for compatibility with surrounding residential areas. Uses include retail
sales serving the immediate neighborhood, limited office space, and personal services.” (Mun Code
27.30.005.)

However, the Property has General Plan and Downtown Area Plan Sub-Area Downtown Retail Core
designations that are not intended for neighborhood commercial uses serving the immediate
neighborhood. General Plan LU 2.10 states that the City should “[e]nsure that developments optimize
the development potential of property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core
and along South El Camino Real.” The Downtown Area Plan envisions this area to “continue to support
the retail core shopping area. . . This will require a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will
contribute to foster retail vitality...” The Plan includes the policy to “encourage the establishment of
offices with the Downtown Retail Core and commercially designated areas” (Downtown Area Plan Policy
1.8.) Downtown Area Plan Policy II.8 notes that the Downtown Retail Core permits FAR of 3.0 to
encourage the development of offices, but that this is reduced “east of the railroad tracks.” The
Property is west of the railroad tracks.

The General Plan’s Building Intensity designation supports Policy II.8 by giving the Property a 3.0 FAR
designation while the properties designated Neighborhood Commercial by the Downtown Area Plan are
designated 2.0/3.0 (which appears to only permit a 2.0 FAR of commercial uses). This is evidence of the
zoning of the Property not matching its General Plan designations because C1-2/R5 only permits 2.0 FAR
by right but an additional 1.0 of FAR is permitted for residential uses. (§ 27.30.050(d); Zoning Code §
27.29.110(c).). Thus, the FAR limitation of 2.0/3.0 is the natural fit for C1-2/R5 properties. By contrast,
the CBD district permits 3.0 FARs by right (§ 27.38.060(a)) which matches the Property's 3.0 FAR
designation.

&nbsp;
149 of&nbsp;186


--- page 150 ---
Excerpt from General Plan Map LU-5

Rezoning the Property CBD would also be consistent with the zoning of surrounding properties. All
properties with the Downtown Retail Core designation and 3.0 FAR designation are zoned CBD on the
south side of First Avenue. There are also properties to the west of Property with those designations
with the CBD zoning that are located even closer to existing residential uses than the Property:

&nbsp;
150 of&nbsp; 186


--- page 151 ---
afl

KN

Excerpt from Zoning Map

Also, the Property is the only Property with a C1-2/R5 designation that is in the Required Retail Frontage
Zone. All other properties within the Required Retail Frontage Zone have a Downtown Retail Core
designation and are zoned CBD:

Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 11

&nbsp;
151 of&nbsp;186


--- page 152 ---
TT tie

en | mnie

a
ml]
m
Fe)
>
=
zi
m
>
Las

Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 10

The Downtown Area Plan explains that this zone is intended to “maintain downtown’s commercial
vitality and continuity within the retail core.” As further evidence that it appears the Property’s current
zoning was an oversight, the implementing ordinance for the Required Retail Frontage Zone is found in
the CBD District regulations and no other zoning district. (See Mun. Code §§ 27.38.010(c); 27.38.110.)
This is strong evidence that all properties within the Required Retail Frontage Zone were intended to be
zoned CBD. It is unclear how the City would apply the detailed Required Retail Frontage standards in
Section 27.38.110, such as the uses considered consistent with the zone and minimum dimensions, if
the Property is not rezoned CBD.

In summary, there is no indication that neighborhood commercial uses were intended to be prioritized
within the Downtown Retail Core Sub Area or on properties with the Downtown Retail Core Gernal Plan
designation. Neighborhood commercial zoning instead appears to be intended to be located north of
the terminus of Baldwin Avenue in the North B Street Tilton Avenue Sub-Area that are designated
neighborhood commercial by both the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan and that have a FAR
designation of 2.0/3.0. The intent of the Downtown Area Plan appears to be to provide the Property the
same development rights as other properties located immediately to its south and west that are in the
same Sub-Area and have the same General Plan, Downtown Area Plan, FAR designations, and are in the
Required Retail Frontage Zone.

Thank you for your consideration and please feel free to reach out with any questions.

Sincerely,

Preston O’Connell
DTSM Donut Delite Venture, LLC

&nbsp;
152 of&nbsp;186


--- page 153 ---
HARVEST
Exhibit A

LANDS oF '"

= CHENG KUANG & SYLVIA
LIVING TRUST

APN: 034—-154-010

11,494 sf

IZMIRIAN FAMILY PARTNERS LP

APN: 034-154-020

(786 OR. 128)

(10)
- _548'40'00'W 110.06",

PARCEL II

3i, 35, 43 And 47 South 8 Street
1 Story Concrete Building
Building Height - 17.5 AFF
5,522 + SQ.FT.
10,00' PG&E ESMT
(1573 O.R. 365)

oe S4B4'4iW 64.02" 7057 77 7710 * “399 7

@*) PARCEL |

57 South B Street
1 Story Concrete Building
Building Height — 20.3' AFF
3,900 + SQFT. 2.0.8, PARCEL V
W'LY LINE SPRR (58 OR 317)

Owen DRIVEWAY ESMV +

W 214.95'"

3'19""

TRANSIT CENTER WAY

&nbsp;
153 of&nbsp;186


--- page 154 ---
Att 3 – Zoning, Land Use and Required Retail Frontage Maps 
 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Zoning Map  
 
Excerpt of Zoning Map focusing on the Downtown Area. 
 
 
Zoning map close up of the area surrounding the subject site.  
 
PROJECT SITE 
PROJECT SITE 
154 of 186

--- page 155 ---
Source: City of San Mateo Land Use Map 
 
Excerpt of General Plan land use map focusing on the Downtown Area. 
 
 
 
PROJECT SITE 
155 of 186

--- page 156 ---
Source: 2009 Downtown Area Plan 
 
Map of Downtown streets that are subject to the Required Retail Frontage requirement.  
 
PROJECT SITE 
156 of 186

--- page 157 ---
GENERAL PLAN – LAND USE ELEMENT 
GOAL 1d: Concentrate major high-intensity commercial office and retail development in specific focal areas, as 
delineated on the City Image Plan, Figure UD-1. 
GOAL 1f: Provide a wide range of land uses, including retail, commercial services, office, industrial, parks, open 
space, and housing, to adequately meet the needs of the community. 
GOAL 1g: Attain development which occurs in an orderly fashion and which limits adverse environmental 
impacts to the community. 
LU 1.11: Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at locations 
delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the commercial nodes delineated on the  
Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.15: Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office uses with residential 
uses at locations and intensities/densities as delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan. 
GOAL 2a: Promote economic vitality which provides jobs for existing and future residents and maintains the 
City's ability to finance public improvements and human services. 
GOAL 2c: Promote an intensity of commercial activity that enhances the business climate in the City to 
increase the level of business types which will benefit existing commercial uses.  
LU 2.4: Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the 
City with a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities while encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods.  
LU 2.10: Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the development 
potential of property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core and along South El 
Camino Real. 
LU 3.1: Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the downtown shall 
maintain a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities. 
3. DOWNTOWN.
The goals, policies, and objectives for downtown San Mateo are located in the Downtown Plan. A general
discussion of the downtown also occurs in Section 3 of this Land Use Element.
Provisions of the voter-approved Measure H, Measure P, and Measure Y which reduced building heights, floor
area ratios and residential densities, were also incorporated, including the provisions following below (the
Measure H, P and Y provisions are in italics).
a. A Specific Plan for the Downtown was adopted by the City Council in July 1985, and amended in 1993,
consistent with the provisions of Measure H as adopted by the voters in November 1991. This Specific Plan
also constituted an amendment to the previous General Plan.
GENERAL PLAN – HOUSING ELEMENT 
H 2.12: Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing commercial areas, or in 
locating adjacent or near transit nodes, where the residences can be buffered from noise and safety 
concerns and can provide adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or 
height bonuses for residential development in selected areas of the City. 
Att 4 - Applicable Policies
157 of 186

--- page 158 ---
DOWNTOWN PLAN 
 
GOALS 
 
ONE Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place Downtown San 
Mateo possesses a traditional downtown image, including an informal, cozy atmosphere. Key landmarks and 
landscaping in the form of street trees, San Mateo Creek and Central Park contribute to downtown’s unique 
character. New development should complement this character, while at the same time bringing 
contemporary elements that revitalize and energize the downtown.  
 
TWO Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of 
Uses Maintain and improve on the wide range of uses available downtown including retail and service 
establishments, entertainment uses, such as the Downtown Century Theater, residential uses and unique 
facilities, such as Central Park. Facilitate a wide mix of retail stores, service uses such as restaurants, and 
housing uses. 
 
THREE Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of 
Downtown. Allow for outdoor uses, such as cafes and sitting areas, to promote the pedestrian activity and 
multiple destination trips to the downtown. Strengthen the links between Central Park and downtown, and 
between the downtown and surrounding residential areas. 
 
POLICIES 
I.1 Downtown Core High Density/Intensity Development. Encourage the development of mixed-use high 
density residential projects and high intensity commercial projects within the Downtown Retail Core. 
 
II.1 Downtown Core Shopping Area. Preserve the downtown’s core shopping area between 1st and 5th 
Avenues from El Camino Real to the railroad.  
 
II.2 Required Retail Frontage. Require the provision of ground floor retail uses with windows on properties 
located on the primary shopping streets as identified in the Required Retail Frontage Zone Map (see map at 
the end of this chapter). In addition to traditional retailing activities, permit entertainment and cultural uses, 
and allow fast food establishments in limited instances. 
 
II.8 Office Development. Encourage the establishment of offices within the Downtown Retail Core and 
surrounding commercially designated areas. 
 
II.9 Housing in the Retail Core. Provide housing for new households that will utilize downtown businesses and 
is within proximity to the transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle ownership. 
 
II.10 Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing multi-family dwellings as 
part of mixed use developments in all downtown commercial and office land use categories, except areas 
designated service commercial and parks/open space in the General Plan. 
 
IV.2 Store Fronts in the Retail Core. Maintain the traditional store front environment of the Downtown Retail 
Core area by requiring new buildings to be constructed to the street property line. In the retail core area, 
require ground floor building walls to be dominated by windows and pedestrian entrances 
 
 
158 of 186

--- page 159 ---
IV.3 Design Guidelines. Evaluate the Downtown Design Guidelines to ensure that it:  
(1) Emphasizes the public realm - streets and sidewalks and public spaces in building design, scale, detail, 
and pattern of new developments;  
(2) Encourages building design to be compatible with the historic and architectural features common to 
many buildings in the Downtown;  
(3) Encourages a compatibility of diverse building styles; and  
(4) Encourages building details, surfaces, textures and materials that are interesting for the pedestrian. 
 
IV.6 Downtown Design Guidelines/Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines. Revise the Downtown and 
Historic District Design Guidelines to give consideration to new development within a historic preservation 
context, thereby providing a balance between preserving a unique community asset (in the form of a historic 
district with intact distinct historic and contributor structures) and providing for new development and 
improvements within the downtown area. 
 
159 of 186

--- page 160 ---
IMPLEMENT A NEW FINANCING MECHANISM FOR SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION
DOWNTOWN PARKING. INITIATIVES. In order to improve pedestrian, bicycle,
The Central Parking and Improvement District (CPID) was | shuttle, and transit access implement Downtown Area
created by the City in 1954 as a means of financing land Plan policies to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit
acquisition and construction of downtown public parking use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility.
facilities. The CPID includes on-street parking, surface

lots and five (5) parking structures. The bonds issued to Additionally, the Downtown Area Plan includes vehicle trip
fund these downtown parking facilities have been retired, reduction, bicycle and pedestrian accessibility policies.

and the City is presently examining methods to fund These policies will be employed on a case by case basis
additional downtown parking. as development is reviewed, with the goal of reducing
vehicle trips and promoting alternative means of mobility.

Funding of additional public parking in downtown should S BE
consider the following principles: =| al ie

a. Property owners should participate in the funding of
future parking expansion through assessments or
other appropriate methods.

b. Parking in-lieu fees when combined with
assessments and other parking revenues should
be maintained at a level to provide the full cost of
constructing a new parking space.

F Outdoor Seating,

Mountain View

SUPPORT THE DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO

ASSOCIATION IN CREATION OF A PROPERTY

BASED IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FOR DOWNTOWN

IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.

As a way to provide funding for additional parking

facilities, the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)

is currently exploring the formation of a Property Based

Improvement District (PBID) as well as other funding

options, including options with contributions by property

owners and/or tenants. The City should continue to
support these efforts in an attempt to address funding
issues related to the provision of additional downtown

parking facilities. at on
Outdoor
Outdoor Seating
Seating Hayward
Hayward

20 CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

160 of 186


--- page 161 ---
Downtown Retail Core

Background

The Downtown Retail Core extends from Sth Avenue to
2nd Avenue between El Camino Real and the Railroad.
3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue and B Street are the primary retail
streets (see map at end of this chapter). The two vacant
former gas station sites at 3rd Avenue/E! Camino Real
present opportunities and challenges at this gateway to
the downtown. Mills Health Center, the Downtown Century
Cinema, and the Downtown Transit Center (see next sub-
area discussion) are also included in this sub-area.

Future Conditions

Downtown Plan policies continue to support the retail
core shopping area by requiring retail uses along 2nd, 3rd
and 4th Avenues, San Mateo Drive, Ellsworth Avenue,
and B Street. This will require a good mix of ground

floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality
and downtown's pedestrian oriented environment. New
priorities for the retail core include:

a. Provide housing for new households that will utilize
downtown businesses and is within proximity to the
transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle
ownership. In order to implement this policy, the City
should allow flexibility in architectural style to facilitate
use of nontraditional housing designs, such as loft
spaces, and allow flexibility in design where more
modem forms relate to existing buildings within an
historic environment.

b. Examine the feasibility of reducing lanes on 4th
Avenue down to 3 lanes to provide pedestrian
enhancements.

c. Examine the potential for providing a public plaza in
the retail core. The City has commissioned ERA to
examine a public plaza at the northwest comer of
3rd Avenue and San Mateo Drive in conjunction with
a mixed use development at 2nd Avenue and San
Mateo Drive.

Continue to seek additional sites for parking and
actively explore alternative methods to manage
existing parking inventory. Parking inventory
management may include experimenting with lang
term/overnight reserved parking for premium fees,
use of technological advancements, encouraging
short tarm parking turn over, and other methods as
they become available.

Provide an entry feature at the entryways to
downtown in the vicinity of the 3rd Avenue/El Camino
Real intersection, 4th Avenue/El Camino Real
intersection, B Street/Sth Avenue intersection, and B
Street/1st Avenue intersection.

Improve pedestrian linkages to Central Park and
other plazas, and provide additional widened
sidewalks where adequate parking and circulation
can be maintained.

Focus on 5th Avenue/San Mateo Drive and
opportunities to directly tie Downtown to Central
Park, including physically and visually open up to
intersection at Sth/San Mateo Drive.

Look at development opportunities on 5th Avenue
and where public benefits may be used to help fund
linkages to and/or improvements in Central Park.

161 of 186


--- page 162 ---
North B Street/Tilton Avenue

Background

Uses north of Baldwin and west of Ellsworth include small
scale medical offices along San Mateo Drive, the Peninsula
Regent (200+ unit senior citizen project), the Mills Square
mixed-use high rise office/residential project and single
family homes are located on Tilton Terrace.

Along B Street there is a mix of uses including those
continued from the retail core as well as neighborhood
commercial uses that serve nearby residential areas.
Recent renovation and establishment of new uses, such as
Cappelini's restaurant, has been increasing in this area.

Future Conditions

Land use designations in the area will support existing
uses, including the neighborhood commercial uses along B
Street. The emphasis for the North B Street/Tilton Avenue
policies include:

a. Enhance North B Street area and designate it as
a unique district serving the nearby neighborhood
population. Encourage retail/restaurant uses to locate
on ground floors and office/service uses to locate in
upper level spaces, while maintaining the existing
character of this district. To further develop this unique
district, establish relationships with existing bilingual
services in the community and merchants.

b. Encourage and facilitate development of large, vacant,
underutilized parcels such as the former Blue and
White Laundry site on North B Street. Development
of underutilized parcels with significant development
which attempts to maximize use of the sites will nat
only have direct economic impacts generated by the
projects themselves, but also contribute to the overall
downtown shopping environment.

CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREAPLAN 23

162 of 186


--- page 163 ---
= : {-2-_ _—— 2s — | DOWNTOWN

FIGURE 2

==

15 @ WN

_ =Inl= = a DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
LI L_ I

= I
ist = \ — = Ln 00100.00- 870
= = | Loe | r r Lo t 1
| let === HH EE Ba) | We <0

eo i) = Scere

= Bag
CH
Q coy eo

—

LTT |
sila ae E 47H a wil
H Ss
== — a B 4
LEGEND
a RAILROAD DOWNTOWN SUB-AREAS:
POST OFFICE [7] CENTRAL CLAREMONT
TRAIN STATION [=]: DOWNTOWN RETAIL
LIBRARIES CORE
L. sanmateocreek [== GATEway
(SUBSURFACE) NORTH B
SAN MATEO CREEK TILTON AVENUE
POE me ot [5 SOUTH CLAREMONT
CT ero = riz i ; PARKS
I fd) | - property BOUNDARY GGG) WEST EL CAMINO
+} = J i — = DOWNTOWN PLAN CENTRAL PARK
ti — ba j EJ STUDY AREA —

163 of 186


--- page 164 ---
RETAIL CORE
FIGURE 3

bs

=| DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

ST MATTHEWS AVE

HLaoOMSs114
fi

aa

» as

ee

WN
a § se
SS 8
ty:

NH

Zz

CoN

paces

NSN
N

mami: bec th PAG

ie Y

Pett LOPLI ta

'

SAN

E 4TH AVE il

rc) Downtown Cinema

Tot sRailroad «= Train Station Parks/Downtown Plaza

Medium Density Multi-Family
@B@B Downtown Plan Study Area

F Neighborhood Commercial’
Downtown Retail Core s 4 ; : ,
@@@ vic-Biock Pedestrian Connections ispesmeniniis:: sinauiciiians Seeammaidiaaae:
Downtown Retail Core Support Public Facility- Library
FE] Sc Parking Facility
Executive Office

Executive Office’ ; .
——— = Required Retail Frontage High Density Multi-Family Single Family
S88 Uniform Building Line

EP Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area Service Commercial

High Density Multi-Family Transportation Comidor
EZ Historic District / Design Guidlelines Low Density Multi-Family

164 of 186


--- page 165 ---
city

DOWNTOWN
LAND USE PLAN
FIGURE 10

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

February 2009

O_ 200 400 600 800
Feet

_ Legend
HHE naitroad 8 train station
ame Required Retail Frontage
eeee 1/4 -1/2 MILE Radius from Station
Mima Downtown Plan Study Area
(—) Property Boundary

LAND USE
Downtown Retail Core

Downtown Retail Core Support

PHOn es

Executive Ojfice

Executive Office’ High Density
= Multi-Family

ao High Density Multi-Family
Low Density Multi-Family
Manufacturing

Medium Density Multi-Family

Wa ONIN aS

Neighborhood Commercial

Neigh. Gomm/ Medium-High Density
Multi-Family

Parks/ Open Space

Public Facility

Regional/Community Commercial
Regional‘Community Commercial!
High Density Multi-Family

Service Commercial

Single Family

ee le

Transportation Corridor

REQUIRED RETAIL

CTE E eee ee i

1S INVUS N

February 2009

f —o
RSET | ell & FRONTAGE ZONES
= =o | 0. — "fie —— | FIGURE 11
smartest — aS i | ! re
a ee CYPRESS DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
f L
1 | lr CITY OF SAN MATEO

SHH RAILROAD
USPS POST OFFICE
TRAIN STATION
oe @ LIBRARIES

easitas SAN MATEO CREEK (SUBSURFACE)
—— _SAN MATEO CREEK (SURFACE)

vues
a
Hy

MISSION

Tamas

CIR

ONVULSIdVI ZT
Teo

om PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY
3 mmm = DOWNTOWN PLAN STUDY AREA
qm = REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE

165 of 186


--- page 166 ---
een sian

- —"! DOWNTOWN
-—— ———] URBAN DESIGN
= PLAN
FIGURE 12
DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

Toot $=RAILROAD

TRAIN STATION
SAN MATEO CREEK
(SUBSURFACE)

SAN MATEO CREEK
(SURFACE)

PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY

DOWNTOWN PLAN
STUDY AREA

Existing Plaza

San Mateo Craak
Protection

UG

LEGEND

ES

Mid-Block Pedestrian Connections

Natrual Landscaping to Define
Downtown Boundaries

Street Trees to Unite the Areas
East of the Railroad Tracks
Application of Downtown

Gore Design Policies
Application of Historic!
Architectural Design Policies
Screening of Commercial
Areas East of RR Tracks

Application of Uniform
Building Line

166 of 186


--- page 167 ---
SUMMARY DATA SHEET 
*Based on requirements in effect as of June 30, 2022. 
NAME: 31 – 57 S. B Street, 
Zoning Reclassification 
PA: 2022-002 
ADDRESS: 31 – 57 South B Street 
LAND AREA: 16,413 sf (0.37 ac) 
ZONING:  
Current Zoning: C1-2/R5  
Proposed Zoning: CBD 
APN: 034-154-030 
 
Requirements for C1-2/R5 
Zoning District 
Requirements for CBD Zoning 
District 
FLOOR AREA: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED: 
  Non-residential only project: 
32,826 sq ft 
49,239 sf 
  Project with Residential: 
49,230 sq ft 
49,239 sf 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): 
 
 
 
Project with only Non-
Residential Uses: Max. 2.0 FAR 
 
Project with Residential Use: 
Max. 3.0 FAR 
Project with/without Residential 
Use: Max. 3.0 FAR 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
55 feet 
Same (see left column). 
STORIES:  
Subject to building height limit 
of 55 ft 
Same (see left column). 
SETBACKS: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
MINIMUM REQUIRED: 
  Front: 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Left Side: 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Right Side: 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
  Rear: 
0 
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.) 
BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK: 
Option not available. 
South B Street and First Avenue 
sides: Up to 25% of building line 
may be set back from property line 
to provide for ground floor open 
space. 
 
Alley side: Option not available. 
STREET WALL: 
45 degree from midpoint of 
public right-of-way 
Same (see left column). 
NOTES:  
The above are the key development requirements for each district; but fully inclusive of all potential 
requirements which may vary depending upon the specifics of the proposed project.   
 
 
 
167 of 186

--- page 168 ---
From: George California  
Sent: Tuesday, July 26, 2022 4:06 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PA-2022-002 .. Donut Delite project 
 
Since the developer of the new building is not constructing on-site parking, will the new owner(s) 
validate parking for residents/tenants/visitors of the building at the City Movie Theatre and Caltrain 
station parking garages?  Otherwise, the increased scale on this property will result in spillover parking 
onto already crowded street parking and into unmetered parking on similarly contested nearby 
neighborhood streets.   
         
Also, the flat, unarticulated wall of this building facing the train station is very industrial looking and 
pretty much a sight blight.  Can't that be improved to something with at least a little bit of character and 
neighborhood fit?  (Spanish? awnings? something!)   
 
__________________________ 
George Derby, San Mateo 
 
168 of 186

--- page 169 ---
From: Katrina Salas-Padilla  
Sent: Wednesday, May 11, 2022 9:47 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Concerns regarding the project proposed for the block on B Street and 1st 
  
To Whom it May Concern:  
  
My name is Katrina Salas-Padilla, soon to be Katrina Butler. I spoke yesterday during the planning 
meeting about concerns that I have to do with the proposed rezoning and building project on B St. in 
San Mateo, on the corner of what is currently Donut Delite. I believe Harvest Properties is developing 
the proposed plans for the project.  
  
My concerns were specifically about the plan for integrating the nearby latino and hispanic community 
members who regularly patron the vibrant B St corridor between Tilton and First St, and what efforts are 
in place to bolster the continued housing crisis in CA and, specifically, the SF Bay Area, particularly for 
the lower income community immediately surrounding the location of the proposed project.  
  
My fiance and I moved to San Mateo last spring, so unfortunately I was not present at the time of the 
decision to remove the grocery store in that same vicinity to replace it with a luxury apartment complex, 
or I would have vocalized these same concerns.  
  
I am a local to the greater Bay Area; I grew up in Benicia just over the bridge from Martinez and 
Concord. I did my undergraduate degree and worked for many years thereafter at Stanford University. I 
lived in San Francisco for nearly a decade prior to moving to San Mateo last year. I have seen what 
projects like the one that Harvest Properties is proposing can do to a community. More than that, I have 
devoted years of academic study to understanding precisely how displacement, specifically 
displacement due to industrial pursuits that subsequently brew gentrifying practices, can do to a 
marginalized group. In short, mental health issues rise, as do suicide rates. If you didn’t already know, 
while the pandemic lowered the overall suicide rate by 3%, it increased the rate by a combined total of 
8% among latino, black, and native american young men.  
  
Furthermore, crime will rise. In case you aren’t already aware, San Mateo crime rates are presently 
among the safest in the entire SF Bay Area. San Mateo is currently much safer than Burlingame - the city 
that Harvest Properties aspires to turn San Mateo into per his presentation last night - and it is even 
safer than the very safe town of Benicia where I grew up. 
  
This is due to the fact that San Mateo possesses one of the most inspiring elements of any other city I’ve 
found in the SF Bay Area; an extremely diverse mix of races, ethnicities, and economic classes. The 
wealth gap here is very comfortably mended by a strong middle and upper middle class, and the 
surrounding cities are able to pick up the slack enough to prevent extreme inequality from doing what it 
does best; push people who do not deserve to suffer - to their very edge.  
  
The economic views that the Harvest Properties representative proposed in last night's meeting were, at 
best, very flawed. Sure, regions that have a history of being red-lined might make prime real estate for 
developers who allow the few who own properties in such regions to profit on their coat tails, but how 
many of the working class families in the north central San Mateo area that pushes out toward the bay 
actually own their homes? I’d like to remind you that the state of California has recently put several 
measures in place to strengthen tenants rights for renters. They are also making it much harder to out 
169 of 186

--- page 170 ---
City of San Mateo  
Planning Commission 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Re: 1st & B Development in Downtown San Mateo  
Hi Julia, 
The purpose of this letter is to let the City staff know of my strong support for the proposed project at 1st 
& B in Downtown San Mateo.  
The Harvest team has recently connected with me to talk through the proposed 1st & B development, and 
I think it’s an exciting project that can bring a wide variety of benefits to the community and the City of 
San Mateo. These benefits include enhanced public realm experience, concentrating new employment 
opportunities around the existing public transit, implementing traffic calming measures, generating 
ongoing sources of revenue for the City to support needed public infrastructure, public art and resources 
for the local school district, and beautiful architecture that enhances the existing neighborhood. 
I believe there is tremendous potential for Downtown San Mateo to establish its own identity and become 
an enlivened pedestrian-oriented retail destination. The 1st & B Development proposes to build on the 
established B Street corridor and making it a vibrant and active Downtown with a highly curated public 
realm area for the community to enjoy. I agree that the current sidewalk doesn’t have enough width to 
prioritize pedestrian experience and allow for storefront openings’ spill out spaces to support restaurants 
and cafes, parklets, landscape planters, street furniture, and gathering spaces for the pubic. Without an 
upgraded and widened sidewalk, all the great features mentioned above would become missed 
opportunities.  
I like the architectural design of the building and how it pays homage to the historical Downtown both by 
using traditional brick material and the breakdown of the building scale to better relate to the established 
neighborhood. The glass volume on the top floor is modern and clean while reflecting the surrounding 
context and blending into the sky. I also appreciate the team’s commitment working towards several 
sustainability goals. Most notably, this project will likely become one of the first projects in the Peninsula 
to be constructed in mass timber which is a warm and beautiful natural material but also the regenerative 
nature and the significant reduction in carbon emissions can revolutionize how America builds. 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide my feedback and voice my support for 1st & B Development. I 
look forward to seeing the progress of the proposed development and public realm improvement. 
Best,  
Kathryn Collins 
 
170 of 186

--- page 171 ---
zone multi family complexes precisely for reasons of scarcity around affordable housing. I am not a legal 
professional, but I am a policy professional within the National Laboratory system, funded by the U.S. 
Department of Energy, and I believe that Harvest Properties’ pursuit of turning the corner of B St. and 
1st in downtown San Mateo solely into a mid-rise commercial and office building could be illegal 
according to current state regulations, and it is certainly unethical. 
  
 I haven’t even mentioned the fact that one of the only homeless resource centers is literally on the very 
next block of this proposed project’s location. I intend to forward these concerns to San Francisco 
officials who might have a vested interest in the matter, given the fact that many of the neighboring 
homeless end up on their streets at a high cost to their residents.  
  
Though I am a child of Mexican immigrants, and Spanish and English were both my first languages, I am 
also an entrepreneur, business wise, such that I have taught classes for Stanford in such subjects for 
years as a Subject Matter Expert. Given that study, I am also qualified to say that my background and 
history in this region make me a “super user”, “pro-sumer”, or particularly shaped for understanding 
what it would take to make this specific region of San Mateo vibrant and attractive to the broader Bay 
Area community without as much of a social and economic cost downstream. The key word is 
integration. People like me, like my peers - young to middle aged working professionals who are middle, 
upper middle class, and upper class, who are educated and active members of our communities - do not 
want to see MORE gentrification and MORE industrial complexes. What we would like to see is subtle 
preservation of the community gems like this particular corridor of B St. This doesn’t mean STOP ALL 
development projects, because I’m aware that at least two of the buildings on the proposed project’s 
block have been vacant for a long time. This means that building with affordable housing, homage to the 
historically diverse and primarily latino local groups, and other sustainable and environmentally focused 
elements, is crucial.  
  
We do not have enough service workers and working class employees to fill our employment needs 
around the country and that is very true in San Mateo and the SF Bay Area. The moves that Harvest 
Properties is proposing is only going to make it harder for those people to live and work in our 
community. There will not be a supply to meet the demand that the development project envisions by 
opening the door for more working professionals. And where are those working professionals coming 
from? They don’t seem to be repopulating in droves given the new hybrid lifestyle many major 
companies have promised. 
  
 What you can expect to see should you accept Harvest Properties application without consideration for 
the needs of those currently inhabiting the immediate vicinity of the project location: Aside from rising 
mental health concerns, homlessness issues, and increased crime, you’ll experience even more 
homeowners fleeing to more affordable parts of the U.S., housing prices will not rise at the rate that 
they are in other Bay Area cities as has been the case in San Mateo for months. Furthermore, you might 
even be in over your head with tenant issues which will ultimately come down to planning oversights 
that should have attempted to promote projects that address the housing and other economic issues we 
continue to face as a country and as a state, rather than contribute to them.  
  
I appreciate that two out of three of the commissioners who responded last night felt similarly to my 
above points, but to the one who did not; I encourage you to spend 15 minutes on this specific street 
corner at 9:45pm on ANY day of the week. It’s rather quiet, despite the train, and most of the dinner 
rush is gone by then. This includes most of the bar scene. Regardless, I lived in the heart of the Mission 
District as well as North Beach in San Francisco for a long time, and the bustle of a night scene is, for 
171 of 186

--- page 172 ---
some people, very attractive. This might be especially true for the kind of people you want to work and 
live in a place like downtown San Mateo; young students, recent grads, working class people with strong 
work ethics. People who have a very long life and relationship to cultivate with this city - not just those 
who want to clog the streets on weekends for brunch and then leave like with Burlingame.  
  
I will be sharing these concerns with other officials and interest groups who may also have a concern in 
the matter, and I will make an effort to continue to show up at planning meetings where this particular 
project is being discussed.  
  
Respectfully,  
Katrina Monet Salas-Padilla 
  
 
 
172 of 186

--- page 173 ---
From: Steve Sirianni <steve@allaboutparking.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, May 10, 2022 7:29 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 1st and B project 
 
Please find my attached letter of support for the Donut Delight project at 1st and B. 
 
Please call or email me if you have any questions. 
 
Thanks, 
 
Steve Sirianni, VP Sales & Client Success 
 
Specializing in First and Lasting Impressions 
 
AllAboutParking.com  
Office: 650.508.8886   |   Cell: 650.743.0051 
100 S. Ellsworth Ave. Suite 203, San Mateo, CA 94401  
 
 
 
 
173 of 186

--- page 174 ---
City of San Mateo  
Planning Commission 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: 1st & B Development in Downtown San Mateo   
 
Hi Julia,  
 
The purpose of this letter is to express my strong support for the proposed project at 1st & B in 
Downtown San Mateo.  
 
The Harvest team has recently connected with me to talk through the proposed 1st & B development, and 
I think it’s an exciting project that can bring a wide variety of benefits to the community and the City of 
San Mateo. These benefits include enhanced public realm experience, concentrating new employment 
opportunities around the existing public transit, implementing traffic calming measures, generating 
ongoing sources of revenue for the City to support needed public infrastructure, public art and resources 
for the local school district, and beautiful architecture that enhances the existing neighborhood.  
 
I believe there is tremendous potential for Downtown San Mateo to establish its own identity and become 
an enlivened pedestrian-oriented retail destination. The 1st & B Development proposes to build on the 
established B Street corridor and making it a vibrant and active Downtown with a highly curated public 
realm area for the community to enjoy. I agree that the current sidewalk doesn’t have enough width to 
prioritize pedestrian experience and allow for storefront openings’ spill out spaces to support restaurants 
and cafes, parklets, landscape planters, street furniture, and gathering spaces for the pubic. Without an 
upgraded and widened sidewalk, all the great features mentioned above would become missed 
opportunities.   
 
I like the architectural design of the building and how it pays homage to the historical Downtown both by 
using traditional brick material and the breakdown of the building scale to better relate to the established 
neighborhood. The glass volume on the top floor is modern and clean while reflecting the surrounding 
context and blending into the sky. I also appreciate the team’s commitment working towards several 
sustainability goals. Most notably, this project will likely become one of the first projects in the Peninsula 
to be constructed in mass timber which is a warm and beautiful natural material but also the regenerative 
nature and the significant reduction in carbon emissions can revolutionize how America builds.   
 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide my feedback and voice my support for 1st & B Development. I 
look forward to seeing the progress of the proposed development and public realm improvement.  
 
Best,  
 
Steve Sirianni 
steve@allaboutparking.com 
650.743.0051 
 
174 of 186

--- page 175 ---
From: Keith Weber  
Sent: Monday, May 9, 2022 3:21 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 31-57 B. St. Pre-Application (PA2021-082) 
 
I would like to respond to the following Question/Comment raised during the April 
11, 2022 pre-application community meeting.  Please include in the 5/10/22Planning 
Commission Study Session Packet: 
 
Question/Comment: When you go down B Street, there is a lot of brick and masonry type of structures. 
Is it the intention to tie into the historical feel of Downtown San Mateo?  
 
Harvest Response: Yes, this is an important concept in our design. We have the 2-story brick volume 
which relates closely to the majority of the buildings along B Street both in terms of height and 
materiality. Same concept goes for the 3-story brick volume along 1st Ave matching the 3-story buildings 
across the street. The brick base of the building ties in the materiality of the surrounding neighborhood 
with detailing and features reminiscent of some of the earlier architecture in the surrounding 
neighborhood. The curtain walls on level 4-5 fades into the sky, reduces visual impact while showcasing 
the beautiful natural material of mass timber. We also soften the building with lush landscape design 
both on the ground plane and terraces on every level of the building. Walking down the street in real life 
(as opposed to looking at a rendering), what you are really going to feel is the lower 2 – 3 story 
condition.  
 
My Response to Harvest:  I'm very glad to know that relating the proposed building 
to the Downtown Historic District is important to you and your architects.  Building a 
2-3 story brick volume that "matches" the buildings across the street is a good 
start.  However, plunking a modern glass structure on top undercuts the entire 
concept and creates a confusing mass rather than a cohesive design.  Instead of 
designing two buildings, one on top of the other, I think a more successful approach 
would be to design a single building of unified design, such as these recent buildings 
in Redwood City (photos below).  Clearly contemporary office structures, these two 
successful new buildings use a traditional architectural vocabulary while meeting 
current client needs.  
  
I look forward to a revised and more unified design that can be a successful addition 
to downtown San Mateo. 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber, 
San Mateo 
175 of 186

--- page 176 ---
Activity Monitor (All Pre

176 of 186


--- page 177 ---
From: Ana A.  
Sent: Thursday, April 28, 2022 1:47 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Harvest Properties Development Comments 
 
 
This email is to let you know that I'm generally in support of the proposed building slated for 31-57 S B 
Street in San Mateo.  
 
I own the property at 36-38 N Claremont Street. Best wishes as you move forward! 
 
Ana Athanasiu 
 
 
 
 
177 of 186

--- page 178 ---
From: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>  
Sent: Wednesday, April 20, 2022 9:32 AM 
To: lwatanuki  
Cc: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org>; Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com>; Tyler 
Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com>; Stone, Jonathan <JStone@prometheusreg.com> 
Subject: RE: 31-57 S. B Street  
 
Dear Ms. Watanuki, 
Thank you for reaching out regarding our "1st and B" project. Here is the link to the project's status page 
on the city's website (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4619/60616/31-57-S-B-Street-Pre-Application). 
The presentation to the community hearing is located here 
(https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/87617/PA-2021-082-NM-Presentation). I can 
also find out if there is a recorded video that is available or alternatively I would be happy to meet 
virtually or in person to walk you through our presentation. Look forward to be in touch and please do 
not hesitate to reach out with any additional information that maybe helpful.  
 
Best, 
Preston 
 
Preston O’Connell | Partner 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
 
direct | 510.466.1485 
main | 510.594.2050 
contact | vCard  
 
180 Grand Avenue | Suite 1400 | Oakland, CA 94610 
 
HarvestProperties.com 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: l watanuki  
Sent: Tuesday, April 19, 2022 12:28 PM 
To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Cc: Laurie Watanuki 
; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 31-57 S. B Street  
 
Dear Mr. O’Connell,  
 
I was unable to attend your neighborhood meeting on April 11. 
Do you have a video link to the neighborhood meeting?  
I am a property owner in the area. 
 
Thanks.  
 
Laurie Watanuki 
 
 
 
 
178 of 186

--- page 179 ---
From: Russ Ito  
Sent: Tuesday, April 19, 2022 11:22 AM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Donut Delite Project support 
 
Hi, Julia, 
 
Good to connect with you on another project. I just wanted to drop you an early note of support for the 
Harvest/Prometheus Donut Delite Project, at 1st and B Streets. I’ve had a chance to meet with their 
teams, and review the plans, and I think they’ve got a great concept that should fit in well in north 
downtown.  
 
Overall, I like the design a lot. It’s contemporary without being cold, and the color palette and material 
selections do a nice job of paying tribute to the historical structures nearby without aping them. It 
should also make a very nice companion structure to the Prometheus project at 303 Baldwin. 
 
Although I don’t know what their intentions are for the penthouse level, I do particularly like their use of 
floor to ceiling glass walls that, with the extensive landscaping and greenery planned around it, give the 
structure a garden pavilion quality that makes the roof almost seem to float. It would be great if that 
area were accessible to the public. Combined with the proposed rooftop open space at 303 Baldwin, we 
could have two, very elegant public/private spaces to enjoy in the neighborhood. 
 
My only concern with this project, as I said at the community meeting, relates to the bus stop on the 1st 
Avenue side. The design calls for extensive improvements to the west and south perimeters, but if the 
bus stop on 1st – and its companion on the other side of the street – isn’t moved, the amenities being 
proposed will be rendered little more than a fancy bus stop, rather than a public promenade/gathering 
space. I urge the city to look at relocating those bus stops into the CalTrain station, where they would 
make more logical sense, and help make the station more of a public transit hub versus a single service 
center. 
 
Thanks for your time, and I’m looking forward to seeing how this project evolves, and to the additional, 
community improvements that are being discussed along B Street and elsewhere in downtown.  
 
Cheers! 
 
Russ 
 
Russell Ito 
 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
 
 
179 of 186

--- page 180 ---
From: Ann Rarden  
Sent: Thursday, April 14, 2022 1:25 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: forecast for needed retail space 
  
Hi, Ms Klein--I attended the neighborhood meeting on Monday, April 11th, to learn some details of the 
pre-application planning for 31-57 S. B St.  The presentation was well done, and community questions 
seemed to be answered satisfactorily, aside from the one about current retailers being able to be 
accommodated in the new building.   
  
I didn't ask my question that evening because I felt it was more appropriately addressed to city staff like 
you.  What forecast has the city made about the need for retail space in the future?  Given the number 
of retail spaces currently for lease on 3rd and 4th Avenues and on B. St itself, I'm not sure that retail 
space is our highest need.  Having attended some housing meetings, it seems that housing that is 
affordable for families who like San Mateo and are currently renting but wish to purchase homes here 
should be our highest priority.  These families are eager to continue living in our community  I am 
dismayed when I walk by the construction on Baldwin between Ellsworth and S.B and see that site 
tauting luxury housing units for singles.  Are we missing the mark with that construction? I understand 
that Havest Properties is reluctant to include two or three affordable units in their proposed building 
because they cannot offer the amenities that renters/owners would want, but there is a laundromat 
down the block and across the street.  Could Harvest negotiate for designated parking places in the city's 
downtown garage across from the train station? 
  
I'd encourage your department and the planning commission to do some creative thinking about how to 
incorporate housing that is affordable for middle class families who will exit our city, much as they love 
the vibe, the schools, the parks, the neighbors, the commute, the rail/bus lines, if we don't tackle this 
problem.  And please don't let developers off the hook so easily with the option of off-site affordable 
housing.  I assume that's what the Build Group did for the Baldwin/Ellsworth/S. B building.    
  
Thank you in advance for your thoughtful response to this query.  
  
Ann Rarden 
 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
 
 
180 of 186

--- page 181 ---
From: Victor Hanna <victor@bettymills.com>  
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 1:13 PM 
To: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>; Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Tyler Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com>; Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: RE: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
 
Thank you Preston for the great detail.  That is very helpful. 
 
Best of luck on the project. 
 
Regards, 
Vic 
 
Victor Hanna 
Chief Betty 
The BettyMills Company 
www.BettyMills.com 
victor@bettymills.com 
650-645-6260 Direct 
 
From: Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com>  
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 9:30 AM 
To: Victor Hanna <victor@bettymills.com>; jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
Cc: Tyler Issadore <tissadore@harvestproperties.com>; Claire Wang <cwang@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: RE: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
 
This email originated from an external account, use caution when responding, clicking on links, or 
opening an attachment. 
Victor, 
Thank you kindly for reaching out and it is nice to meet you via email. We have only submitted our “pre-
application” for the project so we are very early on in the process. Typically, the entitlement process can 
take anywhere from 1-2 years where we have to go through several community hearings, planning 
commission study session, submit our major application and then planning commission/city council for 
final consideration. If approved, it will take another 12 months to get building permits. Its likely 3 years 
or more before construction would commence. Lastly, the city has strict guidelines on construction 
activities where the ownership needs to mitigate dust, work during set hours etc. Please let us know if 
you have any further questions and we would welcome the opportunity to meet in person or over the 
phone/zoom.  
 
Best, 
Preston 
 
Preston O’Connell | Partner 
Harvest Properties, Inc. 
 
direct | 510.466.1485 
main | 510.594.2050 
contact | vCard  
 
180 Grand Avenue | Suite 1400 | Oakland, CA 94610 
 
HarvestProperties.com 
181 of 186

--- page 182 ---
From: Victor Hanna <victor@bettymills.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, April 5, 2022 5:01 PM 
To: jklein@cityofsanmateo.org; Preston O'Connell <poconnell@harvestproperties.com> 
Subject: 31-57 B Street San Mateo Project 
 
Hello Julia, Preston – I just relocated our headquarters to an office space at 19 B street, which is 
adjacent to the B. Street development in pre-application.  
 
I am curious, in the best case scenario, when would ground break on the development?  I would 
anticipate a lot of construction noise and would like to have some understanding when the earliest if 
approved, this may commence. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Victor Hanna 
Chief Betty 
The BettyMills Company 
www.BettyMills.com 
victor@bettymills.com 
650-645-6260 Direct 
 
 
182 of 186

--- page 183 ---
From: 437 San Mateo 12 <437@cinemark.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, April 5, 2022 11:47 AM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 31-57 S. B St., Pre-Application 
 
Got the notice today regarding the planned project to convert 31-57 South B Street into a 42,000 square 
foot 4 story mixed commercial/office space.  Will there be a parking area underground like other 
buildings similar to this in the area?  If not where is the parking for this proposal coming from?  Main 
street parking garage gets really full as it is so I was wondering what the parking situation is going to be. 
 
Thank you, 
Mohammed Taki 
General Manager 
 
San Mateo 12 #437 
320 East 2nd Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
Office #: (650) 558-0559 
Fax #: (650) 558-0737 
E-Mail: 437@cinemark.com 
 
 
 
 
 
183 of 186

--- page 184 ---
From: Laurie Livingston  
Sent: Monday, April 4, 2022 7:50 PM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Pre-Application 31-57 S. B St 
 
Hello Julie, 
I am a resident on Saint Matthews Ave. 
In my opinion, San Mateo does NOT need more office space, especially NOT in downtown.  
I think the above proposed project is NOT appropriate. 
What we do need is a reasonably priced supermarket for residents living by the north end of downtown 
since Trags is gone, and restaurants & other gathering places downtown that genuinely welcome 
residents of all ethnicities.   
Thank-you for reading this and for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
Laurie Livingston 
 
San Mateo 94401 
 
 
184 of 186

--- page 185 ---
Mayor Bonilla and City Council Members:

My name is Russ Ito, and I live one block north and west of the Donut Delite site. I spoke in favor of changing the
zoning to CBD before the Planning Commission, on July 26, and I wish to repeat that support. The zoning should be
changed to CBD for this project.

I was seriously disappointed in the Planning Commission’s failure to recommend the change, as two of the
comunissioners stated their reluctance to support any developments in downtown that failed to include housing.
While that might be a noble ideal, it simply isn’t practical in every case. This site is just 1/3 of an acre, and as such is
too small to include housing at the economies of scale necessary to make the units viable. Trying to force residential
space into the design risks tanking the entire project. You should not allow that to happen.

The Donut Delite project cannot be all things to all people. With the zoning change to CBD, however, it can be an
ideal site for new public spaces that link the B Street corridor to 303 Baldwin, and the pedestrian mall at 1st and B
Streets. As designed, the Donut Delite project will pair perfectly with 303 Baldwin, creating a sleek, modern entry to
the B St. historic corridor. Contrary to conventional thinking, visual contrast is a GOOD thing! The value and
uniqueness of the historic properties on the street is only enhanced through contrast with contemporary designs: both
styles of architecture speaking to their own times — not aping the past.

With the zoning change to CBD and the subsequent enabling of the expanded sidewalks and public spaces around
the Donut Delite site, the project — with 303 Baldwin — will make for a modern, dynamic, and vibrant entry into the
city from the Cal Train station. Please, do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Change the zoning to CBD,
and let this project proceed as planned.

Thank you.

Russell Ito

185 of 186


--- page 186 ---
186 of 186