Ashland Police Department to remove Flock cameras from city | Politics | fox21online.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Site search Home News Local & State News US & World News Crime Education Health Politics Coffee Conversation Knowing Your Neighbor Northland Newborns Senior Spotlight Weather School Closings Sports High School College Northern Star Northwoods League Submit a Score Live Video About Us Contact Us Submit a News Tip News Team Fox 21 Careers Advertise With Us Closed Captioning General Contest Rules TV Schedule Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram iOS App Android App Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram iOS App Android App Duluth, MN Radar Forecast Superior, WI Radar Forecast Friday, July 3, 2026 Site search Menu Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home News Local & State News US & World News Crime Education Health Politics Coffee Conversation Knowing Your Neighbor Northland Newborns Senior Spotlight Weather School Closings Sports High School College Northern Star Northwoods League Hockey Schedule Submit a Score Live Video About Us Contact Us News Team Fox 21 Careers TV Schedule Submit a News Tip General Contest Rules Advertise With Us Closed Captioning Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email ON FOX 21 WORLD CUP LIVE ON FOX 21 TODAY: Egypt, Argentina & Columbia all play today Ashland Police Department to remove Flock cameras from city Jason Van Horn, Fox 21 News Jason Van Horn Managing Editor Author email Jun 30, 2026 Jun 30, 2026 Updated Jul 1, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Flock LPR Camera(Credit: flock) Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save ASHLAND, Wis. (KQDS-TV) -- The Ashland Police Department has decided to not renew its contract for Flock Safety cameras and will be removing the surveillance system. According to the Chief of Police, Brandon Marten, their one-year contract with the widely controversial Flock cameras has expired, and they will not be renewing the contract. Marten tells FOX 21 this comes as they have experienced significant periods of downtime where the cameras were frequently unavailable for use in investigations. Additionally, Marten says they have experienced ongoing concerns regarding Flock’s responsiveness to their service needs and requests. According to Flock, their systems are "license plate reader cameras built to identify vehicle details that may help generate investigative leads. That includes the license plate, along with attributes like make, model, color, and other visible characteristics." Marten says the police department was aware of the ongoing conversations about Flock within the Ashland community and the concerns that were raised. He states that their decision not to renew the agreement was made several months ag o. "We value the input and concerns of the community we serve. As the contract reaches its natural conclusion, it provides an opportunity to remove the current system and thoughtfully reevaluate the technologies available to law enforcement. Our goal is to ensure that any tools we utilize are reliable, effective, and provide meaningful value in helping us serve and protect our community," said Marten. Marten says Ashland Police have been working with Flock to have cameras removed. FOX21 has reached out to Flock for comment on the removal and has yet to hear back. Download Our Mobile App Today! Connect with Us @fox21online @fox21duluth @kqds_fox21 @FOX21Online Want to Share Something with Our Team? Email: fox21news@kqdsfox21.tv Around the Web Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Brandon Marten Ashland Flock Safety Ashland School District Wis Jason Van Horn Managing Editor Author email Follow Jason Van Horn Just Published Iran unveils casket of late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in glass case before weeping mourners in Tehran Iran begins dayslong funeral for the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, killed in war Iran begins dayslong funeral for Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, months after airstrike killed him at war's start 3 dead and others rescued after boat capsizes on Wisconsin lake Hairball rocks Bayfront Festival Park ahead of America's 250th Birthday Most Popular Articles Images Videos Commented Articles Ken Buehler, face of Duluth trains for 25-plus years, is out at railroad, museum Virginia woman arrested for making fake 911 call to distract law enforcement Two killed in head-on crash Sunday afternoon on Highway 169 in Itasca County Threat made against Itasca County Commissioner being investigated Denfeld coach accused of taking inappropriate photos of 21-year-old at car wash 'Water Contact Not Recommended' advisories issued for 5 Minnesota beaches Thomson Township car crash leaves 1 dead, other in critical condition Meet the 13-year-old drag racer from Duluth achieving great accomplishments Teen injured after masked armed men crash early morning Duluth party 148th flyovers announced for Independence Day Images Videos Commented Sorry, there are no recent results for popular commented articles. Sections Home News Weather Sports Fox Features Video STATION INFORMATION About Us Contact Us Fox 21 Careers Terms of Use Privacy Policy FCC Public File FCC Applications EEO Information Make a Payment Contact Information Fox21Online.com 2001 London Rd Duluth, MN 55812 Phone: 218-728-1622 Newsroom Email: fox21news@kqdsfox21.tv Advertise With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram iOS App Android App × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Fox 21 2001 London Rd, Duluth, MN | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Privacy Manager