--- page 1 ---
https://www.fox21online.com/news/political/ashland-police-department-to-remove-flock-cameras-from-
city/article_794afeda-e1e4-4762-84c0-3952d291204c.html
Ashland Police Department to remove Flock
cameras from city
Jason Van Horn, Fox 21 News
Jun 30, 2026
Flock LPR Camera(Credit: flock)
ASHLAND, Wis. (KQDS-TV) -- The Ashland Police Department has decided to not renew its
contract for Flock Safety cameras and will be removing the surveillance system. 
According to the Chief of Police, Brandon Marten, their one-year contract with the widely
controversial Flock cameras has expired, and they will not be renewing the contract.

--- page 2 ---
Jason Van Horn
Managing Editor
Marten tells FOX 21 this comes as they have experienced significant periods of downtime where
the cameras were frequently unavailable for use in investigations.
Additionally, Marten says they have experienced ongoing concerns regarding Flock’s
responsiveness to their service needs and requests.
According to Flock, their systems are "license plate reader cameras built to identify vehicle details
that may help generate investigative leads. That includes the license plate, along with attributes
like make, model, color, and other visible characteristics."
Marten says the police department was aware of the ongoing conversations about Flock within
the Ashland community and the concerns that were raised.
He states that their decision not to renew the agreement was made several months ago.
"We value the input and concerns of the community we serve. As the contract reaches its natural
conclusion, it provides an opportunity to remove the current system and thoughtfully reevaluate
the technologies available to law enforcement. Our goal is to ensure that any tools we utilize are
reliable, effective, and provide meaningful value in helping us serve and protect our community,"
said Marten.
Marten says Ashland Police have been working with Flock to have cameras removed.
FOX21 has reached out to Flock for comment on the removal and has yet to hear back.