--- page 1 ---
Rob Bonta, Attorney General 
 
California Department of Justice 
DIVISION OF LAW ENFORCEMENT 
John D. Marsh, Chief 
 
 
 
INFORMATION 
BULLETIN 
 
Subject: 
California Automated License Plate Reader Data 
Guidance 
 
No. 
 
2023-DLE-06 
 
Contact for information: 
 
John D. Marsh, Chief 
Division of Law Enforcement 
(916) 210-6300 
 
 
Date: 
 
10/27/2023 
 
TO: ALL CALIFORNIA STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES  
 
This Information Bulletin provides guidance to California state and local law enforcement agencies 
(collectively California LEAs) regarding the governance of Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) 
information to ensure that the storage, collection, sharing, and use of this information is consistent with 
California law.  
 
According to a recent survey and report issued by the California State Auditor1, the majority of California 
LEAs collect and use images captured by ALPR cameras. While ALPR information may be a helpful tool for 
investigative purposes, California law governs the collection, storage, sharing, and use of this data. In 
particular, Senate Bill 34 (Statutes of 2015, Chapter 532) (SB 34) imposes requirements on ALPR system 
operators and end-users regarding ALPR data collected through an ALPR system, including with whom this 
information may be shared.  
 
This Information Bulletin should serve as a reminder and a resource for California LEAs to ensure that their 
collection, storage, sharing, and use of ALPR information complies with California law.   
 
State Law Governing Use of Automated License Plate Reader Data (SB 34) 
 
Senate Bill 34 (Statutes of 2015, Chapter 532) (SB 34) became effective on January 1, 2016. That law, 
codified at California Civil Code section 1798.90.5 et seq., establishes requirements—including privacy 
safeguards— for California LEAs who collect, store, use, or share ALPR data. Additional requirements apply 
to agencies that operate an ALPR system. Key definitions from SB 34 are set forth below:  
 
• “ALPR information” is “information or data collected through the use of an ALPR system [excluding a 
transportation agency].” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5, subd. (b).)   
 
• “ALPR system” means “a searchable computerized database resulting from the operation of one or 
more mobile or fixed cameras combined with computer algorithms to read and convert images of 
registration plates and the characters they contain into computer-readable data.” (Civ. Code, § 
1798.90.5, subd. (d.) 
 
• “ALPR operator” is “a person that operates an ALPR system, but does not include a transportation 
                                                 
1 The full report is available at https://www.auditor.ca.gov/reports/2019-118/index.html

--- page 2 ---
Information Bulletin 2023-DLE-06 
California Automated License Plate Reader Data Guidance 
Page 2 
 
 
agency when subject to Section 31490 of the Streets and Highways Code.].) (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5, 
subd. (c) 
 
• An “ALPR end-user” is “a person that accesses or uses an ALPR system,” with exclusions not relevant 
to LEAs. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5, subd. (a).) 
 
• A “person” is “any natural person, public agency, partnership, firm, association, corporation, limited 
liability company, or other legal entity.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5, subd. (e).) 
 
• A “public agency” is “the state, any city, county, or city and county, or any agency or political 
subdivision of the state or a city, county, or city and county, including, but not limited to, a law 
enforcement agency.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.5, subd. (f).) 
 
GUIDANCE REGARDING SB 34  
 
As a reminder, SB 34 imposes the following affirmative obligations on “public agencies,” which includes all 
California LEAs: 
 
• A public agency “shall not sell, share, or transfer ALPR information, except to another public agency, 
and only as otherwise permitted by law.” “[T]he provision of data hosting or towing services shall 
not be considered the sale, sharing, or transferring of ALPR information.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.55, 
subd. (b).) 
 
• A public agency that operates or intends to operate an ALPR system must provide the opportunity 
for public comment at a regularly scheduled meeting of the agency before implementing the ALPR 
program. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.55, subd. (a).) 
 
• ALPR operators and end-users must develop a usage and privacy policy, which must be 
conspicuously posted on their website, and must contain provisions designed to “protect ALPR 
information from unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure.” (Civ. Code, §§ 
1798.90.53, subds. (a)-(b); 1798.90.51, subd. (a)-(b);)  
 
Agencies should carefully examine their policies and procedures to determine whether they are an ALPR 
operator and/or end-user, as defined above, and whether they have complied with the obligations of 
operators and end-users as set forth in SB 34.   
 
Prohibition on the Sale, Sharing, or Transfer of ALPR Information  
 
Regardless of whether an LEA is an ALPR operator or ALPR end-user, SB 34 prohibits any public agency from 
selling, sharing, or transferring ALPR information “except to another public agency, and only as otherwise 
permitted by law.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.55, subd. (b).) Data hosting or towing services are not considered 
the sale, sharing, or transferring of ALPR information. (Ibid.)   
 
Importantly, the definition of “public agency” is limited to state or local agencies, including law 
enforcement agencies, and does not include out-of-state or federal law enforcement agencies.  (See Civ.

--- page 3 ---
Information Bulletin 2023-DLE-06 
California Automated License Plate Reader Data Guidance 
Page 3 
 
 
Code, § 1798.90.5, subd. (f).) Accordingly, SB 34 does not permit California LEAs to share ALPR information 
with private entities or out-of-state or federal agencies, including out-of-state and federal law enforcement 
agencies. This prohibition applies to ALPR database(s) that LEAs access through private or public vendors 
who maintain ALPR information collected from multiple databases and/or public agencies.  
 
California LEAs are encouraged to review their data user agreements to ensure that they comply with SB 34 
and do not allow access to agencies other than state and local agencies, or permitted private entities for 
purposes of data hosting or towing services. 
 
In responding to a Public Records Act request or compulsory process in litigation seeking the production of 
ALPR information, California LEAs should consider all applicable privileges and exemptions depending on 
the nature of the request, bearing in mind the command in Civil Code section 1798.90.55, subdivision (b), 
that an ALPR end-user or operator “shall not sell, share, or transfer ALPR information, except to another 
public agency, and only as otherwise permitted by law.”   
 
Guidance for California LEA ALPR Operators 
 
California LEAs that operate an ALPR system are encouraged to ensure they are in compliance with the 
following SB 34 requirements:  
 
• Maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect ALPR information from 
unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.51, subd. 
(a).)  
 
• Implement a usage and privacy policy, which must be available to the public in writing and posted 
conspicuously on the LEA’s internet website.  
 
o SB 34 contains numerous requirements regarding the content of this policy. (See Civ. Code, 
§ 1798.90.51, subd. (b).) Please see the attached template policy that the California 
Department of Justice has drafted to assist California LEAs that are operators and/or end-
users in complying with SB 34.  
 
• Do the following, if the ALPR operator accesses or provides access to ALPR information (for example, 
to other LEAs by permitting access to its ALPR database): 
 
o Maintain a record of that access, including: 
 
 The date and time the information is accessed; 
 
 The license plate number or other data elements used to query the ALPR system; 
 
 The user name of the person who accesses the information and, if applicable, the 
organization or entity with whom the person is affiliated; and

--- page 4 ---
Information Bulletin 2023-DLE-06 
California Automated License Plate Reader Data Guidance 
Page 4 
 
 
 
 The purpose for accessing the information. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.52, subd. (a).) 
 
o Require that ALPR information only be used for the authorized purposes described in its 
ALPR privacy policy. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.52, subd. (b).) 
 
• Comply with the requirement to “provide an opportunity for public comment at a regularly 
scheduled public meeting of the governing body of the public agency before implementing the 
program.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.55, subd. (a).)   
o This means that agencies that have not yet implemented an ALPR program but are 
contemplating doing so must provide an opportunity for public comment regarding the 
proposed program at a regularly scheduled meeting of the agency’s governing body before 
implementing the program.  
o Although the law does not address ALPR programs that were implemented before January 1, 
2016 (when SB 34 was enacted), in keeping with the purpose of SB 34, agencies whose 
programs predate SB 34, LEAs should consider providing an opportunity for public comment 
on its ALPR program at a regularly scheduled public meeting of the agency’s governing body.  
o Agencies that implemented an ALPR program after January 1, 2016, without providing an 
opportunity for public comment, should likewise consider providing such an opportunity at a 
regularly scheduled meeting of the agency’s governing body. 
 
Guidance for California LEA ALPR End-Users 
 
LEAs that access or use an ALPR system (which, as defined above, includes a searchable computerized 
database with information obtained from ALPR cameras) should ensure they are in compliance with the 
following SB 34 requirements:  
 
• Maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect ALPR information from 
unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.53, subd. 
(a).) 
 
• Implement a usage and privacy policy, which shall be available to the public in writing and posted 
conspicuously on the agency’s website. (Civ. Code, § 1798.90.53, subd. (b)(1).)  
  
o SB 34 contains numerous requirements regarding the content of this policy. (See Civ. Code, 
§ 1798.90.53, subd. (b)(2).) Please see the attached template policy that the California 
Department of Justice has drafted to assist California LEAs that are operators and/or end-
users in complying with SB 34. 
 
As a reminder, SB 34 requires California LEAs that operate as either ALPR operators and/or end-users to 
conspicuously display their ALPR policies on their agency’s website, if they have a website. Inclusion of such 
a policy in a manual, without noting on the main web page of their agency the existence of and/or link to 
such a policy, may not satisfy SB 34’s requirement that such policies be “posted conspicuously on that 
Internet Web site.” (Civ. Code, §§ 1798.90.51, subs. (b)(1), 1798,90.53, subd. (b)(1).)

--- page 5 ---
Information Bulletin 2023-DLE-06 
California Automated License Plate Reader Data Guidance 
Page 5 
 
 
Accessing the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and CA DOJ License Plate Data 
 
In addition to the requirements in this bulletin related to ALPR data, LEAs may access NCIC and California 
Department of Justice license plate data files, to be used for law enforcement purposes only, subject to the 
authorization process and restrictions summarized in Bulletin #23-01-CJIS [Updated California Value’s Act’s 
Database Guidance]. 
 
Additional Reference Materials 
 
Going forward, as your agency utilizes ALPR technology and related file downloads, you are encouraged to 
regularly review your policies and usage to help ensure all applicable requirements are being adhered to.  
As additional reference materials, the following resources are included for your consideration as well: 
 
• California State Auditor’s Report, 2019-118 
“ALPRS: To Better Protect Individuals’ Privacy, Law Enforcement Must Increase Its Safeguards for the 
Data it Collects” 
 
 
https://www.auditor.ca.gov/reports/2019-118/index.html 
 
• DOJ Information Bulletin, 18-10-CJIS 
“California Values Act’s Database Guidance” 
 
 
https://oag.ca.gov/sites/all/files/agweb/pdfs/info_bulletins/18-10-cjis.pdf 
 
• DOJ Information Bulletin, 23-01-CJIS 
“Updated California Value’s Act’s Database Guidance” 
 
 
https://oag.ca.gov/info-bulletins  
 
For questions about this Information Bulletin, please contact Division of Law Enforcement Chief John Marsh 
at (916) 210-6300.