source: packet.pdf
sha256: 9b3a7044abae76390e6137ccdf0373cb5b08d8b35c342750aba907eb6691906c
pages: 9
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Senior Advisory Commission 
May 12, 2025
4:00 PM
San Mateo Senior Center 
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas 
San Mateo, CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Tom Lease, Chair
Ellen Wang, Vice Chair
Anna Cwirko-Godycki
Karl Lorenz
Mary Webb
PACKET
CALL TO ORDER
 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Senior Advisory Commission regular meeting minutes of March 10, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at this time.
State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be
provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
 
2.
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy – Feedback
Receive an informational report on the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy” project and provide
feedback on policy pathways.
3.
General Plan 2040 and Housing Element Update 
Receive informational presentation from Community Development Department regarding the General Plan 2040
and Housing Element Zachary Dahl, Director, Community Development.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS FROM COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for future agenda items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 9

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: seniorcommissionmailbox@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522‐7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 9

--- page 3 ---
Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – _3/10/25 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Tom Lease, Chair  
Ellen Wang, Vice Chair  
Anna Cwirko-Godycki 
Karl Lorenz 
Mary Webb 
City of San Mateo  
 Regular Meeting Minutes 
Senior Advisory Commission 
Senior Center  
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Monday, March 10th, 2025 
4:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
Chair Lease called the meeting to order at 4:02 PM. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
 
Commissioners Present: Lease, Cwirko-Godycki, Lorenz, and Wang,  
Unexcused absence: Webb  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion 
without discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
 
1. 
Approval of Minutes  
Approve the Senior Advisory Commission Meeting Minutes of January 13, 2024. 
 
Motion passed 4-0. 
 
Moved: Wang Seconded: Lease 
Ayes: Lease, Cwirko-Godycki, Lorenz, and Wang 
Noes:  
Abstained: 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
• 
Monika Lee shared information about her attendance at the Blue-Sky meeting and suggested that the 
commission follow up with the Senior Hubs initiative that was discussed. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
2. 
 
Financial Sustainability Strategy Policy 
Interim Community Services Section Manager, Tracy Brummet, presented to the Commission the proposed 
Financial Sustainability Policy and inclusion in the City’s Fee Schedule starting in Fiscal Year 2025-2026. 
Commissioners asked questions and moved to recommend adoption of the policy. 
 
Public Comment- there were no speakers  
 
Motion passed 4-0. 
 
3 of 9

--- page 4 ---
Senior Citizens Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – _3/10/25 
Page 2 
 
Moved: Lease Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki   
Ayes: Lease, Cwirko-Godycki, Lorenz, and Wang 
Noes:  
Abstained: 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
3. 
 
Update on Business Watch Program by San Mateo Police Department. 
Jeanine Ovalle, Police Communications & Public Relations Analyst, presented the Business Watch Program 
managed by the Police Department. Commissioners asked questions and provided comments. 
 
Public Comment- Monika Lee asked where cross collaboration stands as of now with the program and Age-
Friendly Business Certification program. 
 
4. 
 
Proposed Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule for Fiscal Year 2025-26 
Interim Community Services Section Manager, Tracy Brummet, presented the proposed Fee Schedule for 
Parks & Recreation for Fiscal Year 2025-26. Commissioners asked questions, provided comments and 
recommended adoption of the Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule. 
 
Public Comment- there were no speakers 
 
Motion passed 4-0 
 
Moved: Lease Seconded: Wang 
Ayes: Lease, Wang, Cwirko-Godycki and Lorenz 
Noes:  
Abstained: 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
The Commissioner’s and Community Service Manager reported on various past and future events. Commissioner 
Wang requested periodic reports on how the Senior Hubs were being worked on and requested an update on 
Public Works reporting. Zack Silva, Community Services Manager, informed Commission it will be on an upcoming 
agenda. 
 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 5:14 PM. 
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
Maria Gomez 
 
Maria Gomez, Recording Secretary 
 
4 of 9

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9872
TO:
Senior Advisory Commission
FROM:
Zachary Silva
PREPARED BY:
Parks & Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
May 12, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy – Feedback
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy” project and provide feedback 
on policy pathways.
BACKGROUND:
Building energy use represents 38% of communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo. Building electrification 
refers to the transition from gas equipment to electric equipment for space and water heating, clothes drying, cooking and 
more. While natural gas is a fossil fuel, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides carbon-free electricity communitywide. 
Electrifying existing buildings is critical to reducing communitywide greenhouse gas emissions and is a key strategy in 
attaining the objectives contained in City’s adopted Climate Action Plan. In 2023, staff began work with Rincon 
Consultants, Inc. to develop the “Electrify San Mateo: Sustainable Building Strategy.” This report provides an overview of 
the project and the five policy pathways that will be considered by City Council after engaging with the community on 
options available.
Building Electrification Background
Electrification benefits include the added health benefit of reducing gas use in the home. Commonly used appliances that 
burn gas, including stoves, heating systems, and water heaters, emit hazardous air pollutants inside a home when 
improperly ventilated, or when leaks occur. These can include benzene, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, 
formaldehyde, particulate matter and other harmful pollutants that increase the risk of respiratory disease such as 
asthma. Additionally, gas infrastructure carries an inherent safety risk due to the volatile nature of gas, including risk of 
methane leakage, damage during earthquakes, accidental explosions, or fires. 
Building electrification is also an essential approach to driving the state of California toward its ambitious climate goal of 
carbon neutrality by 2045. Additionally, at the regional level the Bay Area Air District (BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in 
the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning 
the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state starting in 2030. 
Project Background and Policy Pathways
The goal of this project is to develop a strategy to electrify San Mateo’s existing building stock, including policies and 
actions for both residential and nonresidential buildings. To date, the project team has completed a building inventory and 
market segmentation analysis and phase one of outreach focused on the concerns and opportunities related to 
electrification. The top concerns heard so far were costs, power outages and grid resilience, and the growth of the grid to 
accommodate future electric buildings. Top values were how the climate crisis is a priority issue, the need for the City to 
5 of 9

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
act now, and the availability of electric equipment incentives and rebates.
Currently, the project team is gathering feedback on five existing building electrification policy pathways. These policies 
are meant to be considered as a menu of options to achieve the City’s climate goals, while considering implementation 
and cost challenges for property owners across the City. Most local governments considering a building decarbonization 
strategy combine multiple strategies together to produce the most comprehensive, and equitable policy result.  
1.
Business as usual: City should continue with adopting reach codes for new construction and focus on outreach 
and incentives. In the past, the City adopted local building code amendments to require more sustainable new 
construction than the State code. This approach has a limited impact because new construction accounts for a 
fraction of San Mateo’s development, however, this approach is already in place and thus received community 
support to date. There are no policy-related additional costs to building owners unless they voluntarily decide 
to electrify.
 
2.
New reach codes for renovations: This approach would include the evaluation of additional reach codes to 
encourage and/or require electrification during renovations. New reach codes would vary depending on the 
updated State codes. One example of a reach code during renovations is requiring the installation of a heat 
pump when an air conditioner is installed. Reach codes during renovations help encourage electrification at an 
opportune time when a property owner is already considering home improvements. The upfront costs of 
electrification improvements can vary depending on the project and unique circumstances of your home. Cost-
effectiveness studies must be completed to validate any adopted reach codes. Past studies have shown utility 
savings over time make electric equipment upgrades cost-effective compared to gas equipment replacements. 
3.
Require electric equipment upon replacement ahead of BAAD Zero NOx requirements: The Bay Area Air District 
(BAAD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water 
heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. A local ordinance ahead of 
these milestones would require the replacement of gas appliances with zero NOx versions when they fail or are 
voluntarily upgraded. This is an ambitious policy that would have a broad reach and only a few local 
governments have adopted such a requirement.
4.
Building Performance Standards for commercial buildings: This pathway would establish a new set of policy 
standards for commercial buildings aimed at increasing energy efficiency, and eventually, electrifying 
commercial buildings as a phased approach. This is a well-established policy mechanism that has been 
adopted by many local governments across the country. This approach can be customizable and lead to 
incremental reductions in energy use but not necessarily electrification. The development of such a local 
program would necessitate new staff time.
5.
Electric first policy for City facilities: This policy establishes a mechanism for local government renovations to 
go electric first. The policy ensures financial and feasibility data is being collected for municipal facilities that 
will allow the City to compare costs to electrify versus replacing with gas equipment. This policy has a limited 
reach as it only applies to municipal buildings. It demonstrates City leadership on hard-to-electrify existing 
buildings that mirror the commercial sector.
Staff seeks Senior Advisory Commission feedback on these five policy pathways. Feedback will be shared with City Council 
with discussion of this project tentatively scheduled for June 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
6 of 9

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
7 of 9

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-9948
TO:
Senior Advisory Commission
FROM:
Zachary Silva, Community Services Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
May 12, 2025 
SUBJECT:
General Plan 2040 and Housing Element update from Community Development Department. 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive informational presentation from Community Development Department regarding the General Plan 2040 and 
Housing Element.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Department will provide an informational presentation to the Senior Advisory Commission 
on the City’s 2040 General Plan and Housing Element updates. These long-term planning documents guide land use, 
housing, transportation, and community services, and are critical to shaping the city’s future growth and livability.
As of December 9, 2024, City Council adopted amendments to the Municipal Code expanding the scope of the Senior 
Advisory Commission. Under the revised ordinance, the Commission is now tasked with advising on citywide issues, 
programs, and projects that may affect older adults—including housing, transportation, accessibility, and public health.
This broader advisory role aligns with the City’s Age Friendly Action Plan and ensures that senior perspectives are included 
in major planning efforts.
Receiving updates such as this presentation allows the Commission to stay informed on city initiatives and provide 
meaningful input on policies that impact the quality of life for older residents. While the Commission is not an approval 
body for the General Plan or Housing Element, its advisory input plays an important role in supporting inclusive and age-
friendly policy development.
BUDGET IMPACT:
None
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
8 of 9

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, Director, Community Development 
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207
9 of 9