Flock camera intentionally damaged in Kalamazoo County - mlive.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Weather in - Change Location Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny Full Weather Report Online Newspapers + Unlimited Digital Access to MLive.com! Start Today for $1 Kalamazoo Flock camera intentionally damaged in Kalamazoo County Published: Jun. 26, 2026, 2:59 p.m. A Flock license plate reader camera fixed to a pole in Kalamazoo County. (Joel Bissell | MLive.com) Joel Bissell | MLive.com Add us on Google By Brad Devereaux | bdeverea@mlive.com KALAMAZOO, MI — Police are investigating after someone reportedly cut down a Flock camera. One camera was intentionally damaged, Undersheriff Michelle Greenlee said. It happened on D Avenue in Cooper Township, WWMT reported on Thursday, June 25. It’s an active investigation, Greenlee said. The cameras capture license plate data that police use to investigate crimes. Critics have complained and spoken out against the cameras across the country, because of the possibility of widespread surveillance using the devices. In Kalamazoo, some have complained about the possibility of outside agencies accessing the data. Police have said the cameras are among their top tools to fight violent crime. Bookmark the local Kalamazoo news page . Brad Devereaux Brad Devereaux is a reporter in Kalamazoo, Michigan. He worked as a news editor in Lovell, Wyoming, beginning in 2007, and joined MLive in 2011 as a Kalamazoo Gazette intern focusing on public safety. He... more BDevereaux@mlive.com Footer Navigation About Us Contact Us Jobs at MLive MLive Media Group Our Team Advertise With Us Accessibility Statement Subscriptions MLive.com Newsletters The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback MLive Sections Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals All Classifieds All News All Business All Sports Advice High School Sports All Life & Culture Opinion Obituaries Your Regional News Pages Saginaw Jackson Kalamazoo Muskegon Ann Arbor Bay City Flint Grand Rapids Mobile Mobile apps More on MLive Video Weather Post a job Classifieds Sell your car Sell/Rent your home Sponsor Content Newspapers.com Archive Follow Us Facebook YouTube RSS Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2026). © 2026 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices