Your MLive news to know today, Sept. 14, 2026 - mlive.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Weather in - Change Location Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny Full Weather Report Politics & Elections Public Interest Business Unlimited Digital Access - $1 for the first month - Sale ends 10/4/26 News What Michigan governor contenders say about Flock cameras, and 4 other major stories Published: Sep. 14, 2026, 5:00 a.m. A Flock ALPR license plate reader camera fixed to a pole along West KL Avenue near South Drake Road in Kalamazoo, Michigan on Wednesday, October 20, 2021. (Joel Bissell | MLive.com) Joel Bissell | MLive.com Set as Google Preferred Source By Bradley Massman | bmassman@mlive.com MLive Express Desk Michigan gubernatorial candidates are beginning to define their positions on Flock cameras, automated license plate readers that have become increasingly controversial as their use expands across the state. It is one of five “must-read” stories from MLive over the weekend. What do candidates for Michigan governor say about Flock cameras? Critics argue the cameras collect data on all drivers, not just suspects, raising privacy and Fourth Amendment concerns. Republican candidate John James said the issue requires balancing public safety with constitutional privacy protection. Democratic candidate Jocelyn Benson said the main problem is a lack of transparency. Reporter Danielle James shares more in this story . Here are four more compelling MLive stories to read: Shelby Albrecht, Regina Pierce and Brandy Sullivan pose for a photograph at Zehnder’s, 730 S. Main St. in Frankenmuth, Mich., on Wednesday, Aug. 19, 2026. Kaytie Boomer | MLive.com This beloved Frankenmuth restaurant is where employees fall in love, get married, and raise their kids to work there too Zehnder’s of Frankenmuth is portrayed not just as a long-running restaurant but as a multigenerational workplace where families build careers, relationships, and traditions. The business remains family-led, with president Nick Shelton identified as a fourth-generation descendant of the founders. Read more from reporter Justin Engel in this story . Lucas Mattson holding a fishing rod. He was 19 and a student at the University of Michigan when his body was found on Saturday, Jan. 24. Provided by the family of Lucas Mattson Fraternity shut down, lawsuit pending in death of University of Michigan student The family of University of Michigan student Lucas Mattson, who died in after attending a fraternity party, still plans to file a lawsuit against anyone deemed responsible. The 19-year-old’s cause of death was hypothermia, with acute intoxication as a contributing factor. Attorney Robert Raitt says potential defendants may include the University of Michigan and the Delta Chi fraternity. Reporter Jordyn Pair shares more details in this story . A U.S. Coast Guard Air Station Traverse City MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter rests ashore the beach of Isle Royale National Park in Michigan Sept. 12, 2026. The helicopter crew assisted state and local agencies to search and rescue a man who went missing on the island days prior. U.S. Coast Guard Great Lakes Video shows Coast Guard rescue 70-year-old hiker at Isle Royale National Park A 70-year-old hiker was rescued from Isle Royale National Park after being missing for about a week. Craig Berg was last expected to leave the island on Sept. 5 via ferry, but he never returned home. The U.S. Coast Guard Air Station Traverse City released a three-minute video showing Berg being hoisted in a rescue basket into a helicopter. Read more from reporter Bradley Massman in this story . Midterm election voters at Ann Arbor City Hall located at 301 E. Huron St. on Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2026. Khalil-Lullah Ballentine Who decides Ann Arbor elections? Data shows seniors a dominant voting bloc Ann Arbor’s elections are effectively decided in the August Democratic primary because the city leans heavily Democratic. MORE BY BRADLEY MASSMAN Motorcyclist hospitalized after crash in Cass County Sep. 13, 2026, 3:50 p.m. Video shows Coast Guard rescue 70-year-old hiker at Isle Royale National Park Sep. 13, 2026, 10:45 a.m. That makes the primary more consequential than the November general election for many local races. Newly released city clerk data shows seniors were the most influential voting bloc in that election. Reporter Ryan Stanton has a breakdown in this story . Bradley Massman Brad Massman is a crime reporter for MLive covering cops and courts for West Michigan. He's received first place awards from the Associated Press for best enterprise and investigative reporting as well as best... more bmassman@mlive.com This article was produced with assistance from AI tools and reviewed by MLive.com staff. Footer Navigation About Us Contact Us Jobs at MLive MLive Media Group Our Team Advertise With Us Accessibility Statement Subscriptions MLive.com Newsletters The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback MLive Sections Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals All Classifieds All News All Business All Sports Advice High School Sports All Life & Culture Opinion Obituaries Your Regional News Pages Saginaw Jackson Kalamazoo Muskegon Ann Arbor Bay City Flint Grand Rapids Mobile Mobile apps More on MLive Video Weather Post a job Classifieds Sell your car Sell/Rent your home Sponsor Content Newspapers.com Archive Follow Us Facebook YouTube RSS Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2026). © 2026 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices