Flock cameras in Michigan: Vandalism, bans and privacy concerns - mlive.com Skip to Article Set weather Back To Main Menu Close Weather in - Change Location Current - Mostly Sunny Tonight Low - Mostly Sunny Tomorrow High - Mostly Sunny Full Weather Report Politics & Elections Public Interest Business Unlimited Digital Access - $1 for the first month - Sale ends 10/4/26 News ‘There’s no guardrails.’ Flock cameras spark privacy battle across Michigan Published: Oct. 04, 2026, 6:00 a.m. 1 / 10 Photos of Flock cameras around the City of Jackson. J. Scott Park Set as Google Preferred Source By Gus Burns | fburns@mlive.com People are so mad at Flock cameras that they’re breaking them. In July, a metal flock camera pole bent to the grass after being sawed in half in Wayne County. The camera itself vanished. After Flock cameras were repeatedly vandalized in Livingston County, the sheriff on Sept. 1 temporarily removed them for a “cooling off” period. Related: Flock camera vandalism: Ottawa County man faces felony charges Lansing City Council in August approved a resolution asking its police department to sever all contracts with Flock and shut down the city’s 26 cameras. The Bay City Commission voted against a Flock contract there in August and Macomb County’s Eastpointe nixed its contract in September. Regardless, use of the camera systems continues to grow. “(The cameras are) one of the most successful, impactful tools (police have) seen in their career—up there with radios, walkie-talkies and Tasers,” said Flock Safety account executive Michael Dushane. “But everyone is terrified to go to their council or township board and say, ‘We want to invest more money in this,’ because there’s such an overwhelming fear from the community.” Through a Freedom of Information Act request, MLive identified 177 government agencies and 28 private entities in Michigan that share Flock camera data with the Michigan State Police, indicating they also operate their own Flock camera programs. Most are local police departments and sheriff offices, but the list also includes Home Depot, Lowe’s, hotels, shopping centers, university, college and tribal police, as well as state agencies, like the Department of Corrections and the Department of Natural Resources. Across Michigan, the image of Flock Safety cameras as a trendy new police tool has given way to a public fight over surveillance, transparency and local control. Supporters say the automated license plate readers help solve crimes and find stolen vehicles. But as communities reject contracts, lawmakers propose limits, courts consider access to records and vandals target cameras, the backlash reveals a larger unresolved question: Who gets to decide how far Michigan’s license-plate surveillance network can reach? A Flock camera is seen along Morrell Street near Brown hills Street in Jackson on Monday, Sept. 14, 2026. J. Scott Park | jpark4@mlive.com What is Flock? Atlanta-based Flock Safety began in 2017 as a private and business security tool before shifting its focus to law enforcement in 2020. Using Amazon’s Web Services cloud-based data storage, Flock now claims the “nation’s largest crime-solving license plate reader network.” The solar-powered, self-contained cameras capture images of nearly every passing vehicle, recording license plate numbers and identifying characteristics such as dents, bumper stickers and missing hubcaps. Data is shared through built-in modems over cellular networks. The cameras don’t use facial recognition technology. Police agencies pay between $3,000 and $5,000 annually, per camera, in addition to installation costs up to $1,200 per camera, Dushane said. While other automated license plate reader manufacturers exist, Flock’s rapid growth has given it a significant competitive advantage through its widening network of cameras. The below map shows agencies that shared Flock camera data with state police as of Sept. 1, 2026: Privacy concerns Critics argue the mass surveillance network comes at the expense of constitutional protections, including the right against unreasonable searches and seizures. “The privacy of all isn’t worth the perceived safety of a few,” Bay County Commissioner Benjamin B. Tenney said. The full power of Flock lies not in the individual snapshots, but in the vast database created by them, one that’s widely accessible to law enforcement across the country. “This is a system where all the cameras are communicating into a database, and that database is able to be accessed by people across the country,” said Kyle Zawacki, legislative director for the ACLU of Michigan. “And it is the system that is the problem as much as the cameras themselves.” The system isn’t limited to license plate searches. Investigators may also search cameras over a defined period to generate a list of vehicles captured in an area, along with their license plates and identifying characteristics. “You can then create patterns of movement for people and know where people are coming and going without a warrant,” Zawacki said, ”and that’s extremely, extremely problematic and a concern.” In Kalamazoo, police learned through an audit that Grand Rapids officers used Kalamazoo’s cameras for immigration enforcement, which violated the department’s use policy. Grand Rapids access to KPSD cameras has since been terminated, officials said. Related: Mundy Township board rejects resolution calling for removal of Flock cameras There are also concerns about data storage. While Flock says law enforcement and government agencies own the data, the company manages and stores it on the Amazon Web Services’ cloud. “They assured us it’s our data, we own it, it won’t go anywhere else unless we want it to,” Bay County Commissioner Tenney told MLive. “It’s like, OK, but when you all… breach that contract, what mechanism do we have to hold you accountable?” Zawacki with the ACLU of Michigan said the “idea of giving a private company all of our information and access to this should be very concerning to people.” “I keep saying that there’s no guardrails,” he said. “This is the Wild West.” A Flock camera is seen along High Street in Jackson on Monday, Sept. 14, 2026. J. Scott Park | jpark4@mlive.com Police say misuse is rare Eastpointe Police Chief Corey K. Haines issued a statement recently revealing that two police employees had been found in violation for misusing the department’s Flock system. One of the employees, who used the system for personal reasons, received “severe discipline,” but the department didn’t reveal what that discipline entailed . News reports reveal that an Illinois officer is accused of conducting more than 2,000 searches on an ex-girlfriend and Texas deputies who tracked an expectant mother who traveled for out-of-state abortion. And just this past week, Oakland County Sheriff’s officials confirmed detectives announced they were conducting a criminal investigation into a former deputy’s use of Flock data amid allegations the officer shared data with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials after leaving his county job. But police claim this kind of misuse is rare. “If you make a mistake on the job, I guarantee it will be noticed,” said Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety spokesman Zachary Hamelton. “And there will be disciplinary action.” Flock offers built-in auditing tools that notify supervisors if an employee performs an excessive number of searches, conducts numerous searches using another agency’s network or repeatedly searches the same plate while using different case numbers, Flock account executive Dushane told MLive. The system logs “every single nationwide network search, no matter whether it returns an image or not,” he said. Michigan Sheriff’s Association Deputy Director Daniel Pfannes said people shouldn’t be concerned about police being able to monitor the travel patterns of law-abiding motorists. “It’s just a clue to get you looking in a direction, just like a polygraph is just a tool…” he said. “I’m not using it to establish guilt, but I’m using it to find the innocent guy and get him out of my way.” How access works There is no public master list showing which police agencies can search one another’s Flock camera data. Flock offers different levels of access. Many agencies participate in statewide or national networks, which allow a user to search thousands of cameras at once for a known license plate. But those searches are limited, Dushane said. Agencies can choose not to participate, and network searches do not allow users to set ongoing alerts, search by vehicle description or search partial plate numbers. Those broader tools require direct access to another agency’s cameras, which must be approved department by department, Dushane said. For example, the Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety said it directly shares access with eight departments. Bridgeport Police Chief Erik R. Skubardis told MLive his department grants or receives access through agreements with more than 700 agencies. “There is no way for me to access another police department’s cameras unless that department specifically grants me access,” Skubardis said. “I cannot independently access or search another department’s cameras without their permission.” Transparency fight Questions over public access to Flock records are increasingly contentious. On Aug. 18, a Kettering University student sued Genesee County after officials refused to release Flock audit logs, camera locations or records showing when his vehicle was captured. The county argued some records aren’t subject to disclosure because the Flock system and data aren’t county-owned. “We think if government is going to engage with third parties on core government functions, it shouldn’t be able to rely on that relationship to withhold records that we need to hold … officials accountable,” said Mackinac Center for Public Policy Senior Attorney Steve Delie, who filed the Genesee County lawsuit. Related: Michigan lawsuit could decide whether police can keep Flock camera data secret MLive initially received a similar denial after filing a Freedom of Information Act request for the audit logs held by the Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety. The response said Flock records “are not held in the regular course of business” and KDPS is “not obligated to create a new public record or make a compilation or summary of information which does not already exist.” KDPS later reversed its denial and released Flock audit logs to MLive. The lack of transparency nationwide has given rise to websites like DeFlock , a grassroots effort to identify and map the locations of Flock cameras across the nation. The website has identified nearly 3,300 cameras in Michigan, including both law enforcement and private cameras. Related: Genesee County Flock cameras staying in place with strings attached Have I been Flocked? is a website that publishes compiled Flock audit logs obtained from across the nation. It allows users to search for records containing specific license plate numbers and documents which law enforcement agencies have conducted searches. The records include a vast number of searches by nearly 200 separate Michigan police agencies that used out-of-state cameras. A growing number of Michigan agencies, including Saginaw Township, Portage and Taylor, are trying to get ahead of transparency concerns by publishing Flock-generated online transparency portals. The portals reviewed by MLive include the frequency of searches within the last 30 days, when they occurred and the stated reason for the searches. However, they do not identify which users conducted the searches, if outside agencies accessed local camera networks or what plate numbers were searched. Only Portage included case numbers. What oversight might look like So far, oversight of Flock has largely been left to the company and the police agencies that use it. But that could change under bipartisan legislation proposed in both chambers of the Michigan Legislature. The ACLU of Michigan helped draft House Bill 5493 , sponsored by Rep. Jimmie Wilson Jr., D-Ypsilanti, which would limit the use of automated license plate readers to locating stolen vehicles, missing persons, vehicles tied to warrants, uninsured or unregistered vehicles and active criminal investigations. Additionally, government agencies would be required to delete data after 14 days, publish privacy policies online and produce quarterly usage reports. Flock is also trying to shape legislation surrounding its technology. According to Opensecrets.org , the company spent $2.3 million on state and federal lobbying efforts between January 2025 and July 2026, based on an analysis of lobbying disclosures. Meanwhile, Flock responded to mounting public scrutiny in August by issuing a list of requirements and recommendations intended to increase transparency and accountability. By the end of the year, Flock said it will require all law enforcement to use its automated auditing program that “detects abnormal activity and flags it for administrator review,” and will mandate that every search include a “case code,” with the intent of linking each search to an existing investigation. Unsettled legal grounds At the core of the Flock debate are the unresolved privacy issues that many believe will ultimately be decided by the courts. “I think this is a big enough issue, and as tech and AI gets more powerful… most likely the Supreme Court will have to weigh in on this directly at some point,” said Delie with the Mackinac Center. Flock observers point to a June 29, Supreme Court ruling in Chatrie v. United States that could carry implications for police use of license plate reader data and Flock. In that case, the Supreme Court in a 6-3 opinion ruled that police use of geofence data, which is the blanket collection of cell phone location data in a given area, constitutes Fourth Amendment search requiring a search warrant. Similar arguments could be applied to police use of Flock technology in the future. “For agencies, the practical read is that the constitutional ground on which (automated license plate reader) networks rest is unsettled,” the National Policing Institute said on its website. Flock Safety cameras Grand Blanc Township renews Flock Safety contract in split vote Flock contract renewal on Grand Blanc Township board agenda Kalamazoo to require public board vote on Flock Safety contracts after protests Flock Safety cameras spark debate over surveillance in Mount Clemens Michigan county to keep Flock data for just 7 days as company rolls out new guidelines Gus Burns I am an investigative and cannabis industry reporter. Please call me with any tips, leads or story ideas, 989-372-2495. fburns@mlive.com Footer Navigation About Us Contact Us Jobs at MLive MLive Media Group Our Team Advertise With Us Accessibility Statement Subscriptions MLive.com Newsletters The Ann Arbor News The Bay City Times The Flint Journal The Grand Rapids Press Jackson Citizen Patriot Kalamazoo Gazette Muskegon Chronicle The Saginaw News Already a Subscriber Manage your Subscription Place a Vacation Hold Make a Payment Delivery Feedback MLive Sections Jobs Autos Real Estate Rentals All Classifieds All News All Business All Sports Advice High School Sports All Life & Culture Opinion Obituaries Your Regional News Pages Saginaw Jackson Kalamazoo Muskegon Ann Arbor Bay City Flint Grand Rapids Mobile Mobile apps More on MLive Video Weather Post a job Classifieds Sell your car Sell/Rent your home Sponsor Content Newspapers.com Archive Follow Us Facebook YouTube RSS Your Privacy Choices Privacy Policy | User Agreement | Ad Choices Disclaimer Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement , (updated 8/1/2024) and acknowledgement of our Privacy Policy , and Your Privacy Choices and Rights (updated 1/1/2026). © 2026 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. YouTube's privacy policy is available here and YouTube's terms of service is available here . Ad Choices