Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Loveland OH PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Jun 17 2026

OVERVIEW

Loveland OH PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Loveland OH PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Loveland OH PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected: Vehicle Fingerprint

License Plates, Vehicle Make, Vehicle Color, Last Visit Date / Time, Number Of Days Seen

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Loveland OH PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

185,049

Hotlists Alerted On

National Crime Information Center (NCIC) which includes vehicles wanted for crimes, missing and wanted persons, AMBER & Silver Alerts

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

63
ADDITIONAL INFO

Success Story

A vehicle was involved in a crash and the suspected drunk driver fled the scene. A Flock camera near the crash scene captured the vehicle and officers were able to quickly locate the suspect vehicle and driver. Without the information obtained from the Flock camera it is unlikely this vehicle or person would have been located.

Success Story

LPD received multiple alerts on a vehicle associated with a missing person from Illinois. Officers were able to locate the vehicle and confirm the missing person was safe. The entering agency contacted family members who were thankful to learn their missing loved one was found and in good health.

Success Story

LPD officers received a FLOCK alert on a vehicle stolen from Miami Township (Clermont), Ohio. Officers were able to use the information, locate the vehicle a short time later, and confirm it was an active stolen vehicle. Although the driver fled on foot, an apprehension was made, and the subject was charged with Receiving Stolen Property.

Success Story

Officers stopped and arrested two subjects for stealing mail from a Loveland residents' mailbox. Detectives searched the FLOCK database, and it provided information on the subject's movements through multiple states. The suspects were ultimately charged with multiple counts of felony theft for crimes in Loveland and face additional federal criminal charges from the US Postal Inspection Service for crimes in several states.



Success Story

LPD received a report of a Breaking and Entering offense at a downtown business. The only lead was a general time frame and a video image of a hooded suspect inside the establishment.

Utilizing the FLOCK database, officers worked to establish a list of vehicles in the area around the time of the offense. Their efforts produced a list of approximately 32 vehicles including one related to a previous employee. When interviewed the suspect admitted to multiple offenses.

The FLOCK information saved numerous investigative hours and enhanced the officer's ability to advance the investigation much faster than if forced to review hours of surveillance footage.


Success Story

Officers received an alert on a stolen vehicle entering Loveland. The FLOCK photo showed the vehicle on the back of a car hauler and officers located it in a local business lot. Through investigation, it was determined to have been bought at an auto auction in Minnesota by a third party and was in the process of being transported to South Carolina to the internet purchaser. The recovered stolen vehicle was originally taken in North Dakota and information was passed on to the entering agency who will continue the investigation.

Provided by Flock Safety