Judge orders police to release surveillance camera data, raising privacy questions | krem.com Skip Navigation Share on Facebook Share on SMS Share on Email Navigation News Back Local Environment Northwest Boomtown Inland NorthBest Investigative Politics Nation World Money Health Entertainment Near Me Noticias Latest News Stories Moscow man sentenced to more than 17 years for possession of child pornography Family of man killed in Spokane hit-and-run plans fundraiser to honor his memory Weather Back Forecast Radar 10-Day Hourly Closings & Delays Traffic Weather Cameras Ski Reports Latest Weather Stories Look for mostly 80s across the Inland Northwest for Tuesday Holiday weekend rain threatens South to Southeast Sports Back Locked On Podcast Network Gonzaga Bulldogs Washington State Cougars Idaho Vandals Eastern Washington Eagles Spokane Indians Spokane Chiefs Spokane Velocity FC Spokane Zephyr FC NFL MLB NHL Latest Stories Spokane Chiefs sign head coach Brad Lauer to contract extension WSU baseball punches postseason ticket for first time since 2010 Right Now Spokane, WA » 51° Spokane, WA » Weather Closings Advertise With Us KREM Cares Inland Life Contests MEET THE TEAM TV LISTINGS Pick of the Litter Spokane Gas Prices Let’s Talk Breaking News More ( ) » Investigations Judge orders police to release surveillance camera data, raising privacy questions The judge's ruling in a Skagit County case could affect dozens of Washington police departments using Flock technology. To stream KREM on your phone, you need the KREM app. Download the KREM app More Videos Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Next up in 5 Example video title will go here for this video Author: Chris Ingalls Published: 6:52 PM PST November 6, 2025 Updated: 8:50 AM PST November 7, 2025 MOUNT VERNON, Wash. — Data collected by automated license plate readers used by police departments across Washington state must be made public, a judge in Skagit County ruled on Thursday. It's a decision that could have far-reaching implications for law enforcement surveillance practices. Judge Elizabeth Yost Neidzwski of Skagit County Superior Court ruled images captured by Flock brand cameras qualified as public records subject to the state's Public Records Act, siding with a tattoo artist who had sought access to the data from multiple police agencies. This story continues below. More in Investigations Large police presence in the area of West Thorpe Road and West Westwood Lane in Spokane Large police presence in the area of West Thorpe Road and West Westwood Lane in Spokane Spokane Valley investigators arrest armed robbery suspect The ruling came after the cities of Sedro Woolley and Stanwood sued Jose Rodriguez in civil court to block his records requests. Both cities have since turned off their Flock camera systems. "The Flock data do qualify as public records subject to the Public Records Act," Judge Neidzwski said in her ruling. The case centers on a network of automated cameras mounted along busy streets in communities like Sedro Woolley, a historic logging town north of Seattle. The cameras continuously photograph passing vehicles and their occupants, ostensibly to help identify stolen cars or vehicles used in crimes. Rodriguez, an Oregon resident who works in Walla Walla, describes himself as an ordinary citizen concerned about government overreach. He filed public records requests with dozens of Washington police agencies seeking images captured by the cameras. Many agencies complied, providing records that revealed the cameras photograph all passing vehicles indiscriminately, not just those suspected of criminal activity. KING 5 reviewed dozens of photos taken by Flock surveillance cameras in Newcastle on Sept. 16. The images clearly show the faces and license plates of everyday drivers, not just those suspected of crimes. KING 5 has included the images below to show examples of what Flock cameras capture, but blurred people's faces and license plates for privacy. Editor's note: A previous version of this article unintentionally left license plate numbers exposed. This gallery has been updated to protect privacy. "I felt like that's violating my privacy, everyone's privacy, regardless if you are obeying the law," Rodriguez said. "It's not like they are a traffic light camera that takes picture of all the people that are breaking the law by speeding or whatever. It's taking pictures of every single vehicle that passes by." Emily Guildner, an attorney representing Sedro Woolley and Stanwood, argued that releasing the images publicly would violate individuals' privacy and could enable malicious actors such as stalkers. She said the present court case involves "a fairly specific issue regarding a very valuable and effective enforcement tool." But the judge found that the scope of Flock surveillance was "so broad and indiscriminate" — with most images capturing people not suspected of any crime — that the data must be released under public records law. The judge said her ruling does not touch on any other controversies surrounding automated license plate readers, only the issues related to the Public Records Act. The case follows a University of Washington report last month that found federal agents had accessed Washington's Flock camera network, possibly in violation of a state law prohibiting the use of such systems for immigration enforcement purposes. Tim Hall, Rodriguez's attorney, said the case has revealed gaps in oversight. "I think a lot of cities are discovering right now that we don't know who all has access to this," he said. Hall said Flock’s software is more sophisticated than simple license plate readers. It can potentially identify vehicles through make/model, bumper stickers, dents in the vehicle and roof rack. Attorneys for the cities said they would evaluate the decision before determining their next step. Meanwhile, Flock cameras in both Sedro Woolley and Stanwood remain deactivated Close Ad Before You Leave, Check This Out Jobs Terms of Service Privacy Policy Ad Choices EEO Public File Report FCC Online Public Inspection File Closed Caption Procedures Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information © 2026 KREM-TV. All Rights Reserved.