source: packet.pdf
sha256: c30f1b25b003bc7cbba445c7b04d7838e685d45c82ad280e7ded1c4944ea32c6
pages: 317
ocr_pages: 40
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Special
Meeting
September 27, 2022
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNORБ─≥S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM Б─⌠ SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom Б─⌠ click here: September 27, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 861 8248 1121      Passcode: 891622
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
OLD BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
General Plan Update Б─⌠ Draft Goals, Policies and Actions for the Land Use, Community Design and Historic
Preservation, and Safety Elements
Provide a recommendation to the City Council on the Goals, Polices and Actions that should be included in the
CityБ─≥s Draft General Plan Update.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the CityБ─≥s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and youБ─≥ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the Б─°Raise Your HandБ─² icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and youБ─≥ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the Б─°Raise Your HandБ─² icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a Б─°Request to SpeakБ─² form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6648
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 27, 2022 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Update Б─⌠ Draft Goals, Policies and Actions for the Land Use, Community Design and Historic Preservation, and 
Safety Elements
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide a recommendation to the City Council on the Goals, Polices and Actions that should be included in the CityБ─≥s Draft 
General Plan Update. 
BACKGROUND:
The CityБ─≥s General Plan Update (GPU) kicked off in Fall 2018 and began with a series of visioning workshops and 
community meetings. From April 2019 through July 2022, the General Plan team held a series of meetings and events to 
establish the General Plan study areas, create the range of alternatives, confirm the draft alternatives, and receive 
feedback and direction on the preferred land use and circulation scenarios from the community and, ultimately, the City 
Council. More information about the background information, technical reports and the outreach process, including 
meeting materials and recordings, is available at www.StriveSanMateo.org. 
To date, the Strive San Mateo General Plan Update has focused on crafting a shared community vision for what San Mateo 
can be in the year 2040, as well as selecting the preferred land use and circulation scenarios that will guide the General 
PlanБ─≥s Land Use and Circulation Elements. The process is now shifting to focus on the goals and policies for all of the 
elements in the CityБ─≥s General Plan Update. The draft goals, policies and actions were published on July 21, 2022, which 
started the next phase of community outreach and engagement.  Public meetings, workshops and pop-up events, as well 
as an online survey, will be happening through October 2022. 
Goals, Policies and Actions Definitions
A General Plan is made up of a Vision Statement and Guiding Principles (Attachment 1), text describing key issues of 
community interest, and goals and policies that outline how the City will address those issues, as well as accompanying 
maps and diagrams. Each element of the General Plan will also include a concise set of background narratives that 
summarizes current conditions in the city related to the topics in the element. The background information will provide 
context about the issues the City plans to address, explaining why there is policy direction so that the the policies and 
actions can focus on how the City can achieve a desired outcome.  The narratives also provide information on other 
regulations and/or agencies that influence the decisionmaking process.  Together, these items paint a picture of the 
communityБ─≥s future. A draft outline of how the complete Draft General Plan will be composed is included in Attachment 2.  
It is anticipated that this outline will continue to evolve and be refined based on ongoing community input and Council 
direction before the Draft General Plan document is published in 2023.  
3 of 317

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Each element, or chapter, of the General Plan addresses a specific set of topics and includes a set of goals, polices and 
actions that provide a blueprint for how the City will address these issues. Definitions of what a goal, policy, and action are, 
and the relationship between them, is as follows:
Б─╒
A goal is a description of a general desired result that the City seeks to create through the implementation of its 
General Plan.
Б─╒
A policy is a specific statement that regulates activities in the City, guides decisionmaking and directs ongoing 
efforts as the City works to achieve a goal. General Plan policies establish standards that will be used by City staff, 
Planning Commission, and City Council when pritoritizing initiatives and expenditures, reviewing and approving 
new development and in related City decisionmaking.  
Б─╒
An action is a measure, procedure, or technique intended to help reach a specified goal or implement a policy. The 
actions in the General Plan will serve as a to-do list for City staff and officials to implement the goals and policies of 
the General Plan. 
These goals, policies, and actions provide guidance to the City on how to direct change and manage resources over the 
next 20 years.
The basis for the draft goals, policies and actions started with the CityБ─≥s current General Plan. However, there are many 
important policy topics in which the current General Plan policy language is outdated and/or no longer adequately 
responds to current conditions and other present-day issues. To address these policy gaps, the General Plan team drafted 
updated versions by refining existing policies and creating new ones, as needed. The process to prepare the goals policies 
and actions that go into the GPU includes the following steps:
Б─╒
Review of existing General Plan goals, polices, and actions.  City staff from all departments, the GPU Technical 
Advisory Committee (TAC), reviewed the existing General Plan goals, polices, and actions and provided direction 
on which policies needed clarification, improvement, or removal.  In addition, the General Plan team carefully 
reviewed the goals, policies, and actions and identified what changes were needed to respond to community input 
collected throughout the GPU process and State requirements by drawing from best practices used by other 
California communities.  
Б─╒
Draft new and revised goals, policies, and actions.  The preparation of the updated goals, policies, and actions for 
the GPU has been going on for over two years, with the TAC and General Plan Team focused on addressing policy 
gaps, alignment with current processes and policies, and in respondse to community input. These Draft Goals, 
Policies, and Actions are included in Attachment 3.
Б─╒
Collect input and direction on draft goals, policies, and actions. The General Plan team is sharing the Draft Goals, 
Policies, and Actions with the community, General Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and City Council this 
summer and fall to receive input and direction. Table 1 summarizes the community outreach program. 
Table 1 Б─⌠ Goals, Policies, and Actions Outreach Activities and Events
Event
Date
Strive San Mateo Newsletter
Mailed all households Citywide on week of July 19-22, 2022
Online Survey
Monday, July 18 to Sunday, September 18, 2022
Informational Virtual Workshop
Thursday, September 8, 2022
In-Person Spanish Language Workshop
Saturday, September 10, 2022 at the King Center
In-Person Open House
Saturday, September 17, 2022 at the Downtown Library
Pop-up Events
See Attachment 4 for the list of events
Community Group Presentations 
Dates and locations TBD
Community Feedback 
On July 21, 2022, the City published an online survey to collect feedback and reactions to the Draft Goal, Policies and 
Actions. Participants have the option of selecting which draft goals and policies from the seven General Plan Elements to 
4 of 317

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
provide feedback on.  As of September 19, 2022, a total of 158 responses were submitted. In addition, to-date, the City has 
received 31 written comment letters. Based on the survey responses and written comments, some of the key issues that 
the community wants to see addressed within the GPU are listed below.  
Б─╒
Improving public safety;
Б─╒
Limiting noise exposure;
Б─╒
Maintaining the CityБ─≥s visual and architectural character;
Б─╒
Preserving historic resources;
Б─╒
Planning for sea level rise;
Б─╒
Maintaining and improving infrastructure, public services, parks and recreational facilities; and
Б─╒
Improving bicycle and pedestrian safety and connectivity.
An updated memo that includes a more detailed summary of the preliminary online survey results, community input 
collected and comment letters is included in Attachment 4. The online survey will now be open through October 16, 2022.  
All comments submitted on this topic are also available online at www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments. 
This link includes all comments that have been submitted since the beginning of the GPU effort in September 2018. 
General Plan Subcommittee Feedback
The GPS met three times on August 11, 18, and 30, 2022 to review and provide feedback on the draft goals, policies and 
actions. At all three meetings, the GPS accepted public comments, asked clarifying questions and provided a range of 
comments and feedback on all of the topics covered in the seven elements.  Some of the overarching themes that 
emerged from the GPSБ─≥s discussions and comments included:
Б─╒
Focus on ways to support increased housing production and providing housing for residents at all income levels.
Б─╒
Support the transition away from single-occupancy vehicles to other forms of mobility and prioritize investment in 
infrastructure that supports walking, biking and transit.
Б─╒
Highlight how the City will be addressing environmental justice and climate change in all of the elements.
Б─╒
Support high quality, pedestrian orientated design in new development, with a focus on establishing objective 
standards for architectural design and historic preservation.
Б─╒
Support investment in the CityБ─≥s parks and recreational facilities, and ensure that they are accessible to all 
residents and neighborhoods. 
A more detailed summary of the comments and input provided by the GPS is included in Attachment 5. The General Plan 
team is currently reviewing this input and will work on drafting updated language prior to the City Council meetings in 
October.
DISCUSSION:
The goal of this meeting series will be to receive a presentation from staff that summarizes the draft goals, policies and 
actions by element, receive public comments, and to collect Planning Commission input on the draft goals, policies and 
actions before they become part of the Draft General Plan. When preparing to provide input on the draft goals, policies, 
and actions, each Commissioner should:
Б─╒
Review the relevant goals, policies and actions prior to each meeting:
o
Tuesday, September 13, 2022
Б√╙
Circulation
Б√╙
Conservation, Open Space and Recreation
Б√╙
Public Services and Facilities
Б√╙
Noise
o
Tuesday, September 27, 2022
Б√╙
Land Use
Б√╙
Community Design and Historic Preservation 
Б√╙
Safety
5 of 317

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Б─╒
Consider the following questions during your review:
o
What do you support about these goals, policies and actions?
o
Is there anything you would add or change?
o
Are there any policy topics missing?
o
Should any of the policies be changed from a recommendation to a requirement or vice versa?
o
Are there additional specific actions that should be added to support implementation of the policies?
To support the Land Use Element discussions, examples of new construction projects at various heights and densities from 
around the Bay Area is included as Attachment 6. The General Plan team would like to keep the focus of the policy 
discussion on the content of the goals, policies, and actions. If a commissioner has suggested grammatical or typographical 
edits, please provide them to staff separately.  Staff will review written comments and they will become part of the public 
record.
NEXT STEPS:
Following the September Planning Commission Meetings, the next steps to finalizing the draft goals, policies, and actions 
include:
Б─╒
Public meetings before the City Council are scheduled for October 3, 2022 and October 17, 2022 to review the 
input from the community, GPS, Planning Commission, and provide direction on the draft goals, policies and 
actions.
Б─╒
Finalize the goals, policies and actions per Council direction and incorporate them into the Draft General Plan. 
Publication of the Draft General Plan is targeted in spring 2023. The Draft General Plan will then be available for 
review and input from the community, the GPS, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in spring and 
summer of 2023. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, the Planning Commission's recommendation on the Draft Goals, 
Policies and Actions is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that this activity will not cause a 
physical change in the environment.  Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) for the General Plan 
Update commenced in August, with publication of the DEIR for public review anticipated in the spring of 2023. The DEIR 
will have a 45-day public comment period once it is published. A Final EIR will be prepared prior to any formal decisions on 
the updated General Plan.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 Б─⌠ General Plan Vision Statement
Att 2 Б─⌠ Draft General Plan Outline
Att 3 Б─⌠ Draft Goals, Policies, and Actions
Att 4 Б─⌠ Community Engagement and Input Summary 
Att 5 Б─⌠ General Plan Subcommittee Meetings Summary
Att 6 Б─⌠ Heights and Density Examples
STAFF CONTACT
City of San Mateo 
PlaceWorks
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP, Principal
(650) 522-7207 
generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
6 of 317

--- page 7 ---
Our Vision: 
San Mateo is a vibrant, livable, diverse, and healthy community that respects the quality of 
its neighborhoods, fosters a flourishing economy, is committed to equity, and is a leader in 
environmental sustainability.б═
Diversity 
We embrace 
diversity and 
respect the 
experiences, 
contributions, 
and aspirations 
of people of all 
ages, abilities, 
incomes, and 
backgrounds. 
We celebrate 
arts and 
culture. 
Balance 
We seek to 
balance  
well-designed 
development 
and thoughtful 
preservation 
with a full 
spectrum 
of choices 
for housing 
and effective 
transportation. 
Inclusivity
We strive 
to include 
everyone in 
community life 
and decisions 
for a shared, 
sustainable 
future.
Prosperity
We cultivate 
a diverse 
and thriving 
economy with 
different types 
of homes, jobs, 
recreation, 
lifelong learning 
opportunities, 
and services 
for both current 
and future 
generations.
Resiliency
We are leaders 
in sustainability, 
making San 
Mateo strong 
and resilient by 
acting boldly 
to adapt to 
a changing 
world. 
Our Values: 
Vision  
	&Values
San Mateo General Plan Update 
www.strivesanmateo.org
7 of 317

--- page 8 ---
P L A C E W O R K S
i
Draft General Plan Б─⌠ Outline
I.
INTRODUCTION 
A. WHAT IS A GENERAL PLAN?
B.
WHO MADE THE GENERAL PLAN?
C. VISION AND VALUES
D. USERБ─≥S GUIDE
1.
Overview of elements
2.
Topics integrated throughout:  
a.
Environmental Justice
b.
Climate Change and Sustainability
c.
Community Engagement 
3.
Definition of goal, policy, and action
E.
IMPLEMENTING THE GENERAL PLAN
1.
Relationship to zoning code, other plans, annual budget, etc. 
2.
Amendments process
II.
LAND USE
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Area Description
2.
History
3.
Projected Growth 
4.
Economic Profile
5.
Land Use
i.
Land Use Standards
ii.
Land Use Map
iii.
Specific Plans and Master Plans
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS 
1.
Balanced, Orderly, and Equitable Growth and Preservation
2.
A Diverse Range of Land Uses
3.
Focused Planning Areas
a.
Downtown
b.
El Camino Real
8 of 317

--- page 9 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
ii
July 2022
c.
Hillsdale Station Area
d.
Shopping Centers in Transition
4.
Environmental Justice
a.
Community Health
b.
Equity Priority Communities
c.
Access to Healthy Food
5.
Community Engagement
6.
Climate Change and Sustainability
7.
A Sustainable Economy
a.
Economic Development
b.
Fiscal Health
8.
Development Review
9.
Regional Cooperation
10. General Plan Maintenance
III.
CIRCULATION
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
21st Century Transportation 
2.
Transit 
3.
Bicycle and Pedestrian
4.
Roadway Classifications
5.
Future Traffic Conditions
6.
Roadway improvements
7.
Parking
8.
Future Transportation Technology 
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Multimodal Transportation
2.
Transportation Demand Management
3.
Pedestrians
4.
Bicycles and Micromobility
5.
Transit and Mobility Services
6.
Roadway Improvements
7.
Parking Management
8.
Future Mobility and Technology
9 of 317

--- page 10 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
P L A C E W O R K S
iii
IV.
HOUSING [prepared separately]
V.
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC RESOURCES
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Setting 
2.
Historic Resources
3.
Elements of Design (e.g. scale, massing, materials, lighting, landscaping)
4.
Art in Public Places
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Natural Landscapes and the Urban Forest
2.
Historic Resources
3.
City Image
4.
Residential
5.
Mixed-Use and Commercial Areas
6.
Area-Specific Design Policies
i.
North Central
ii.
Shoreview 
iii.
Marina Lagoon/ Bridgepointe
i.
Northwest Heights
iv.
Hayward Park/SunnyBrae
v.
Beresford Park
ii.
Hillsdale/Sugarloaf
iii.
Western Hills
VI.
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATION
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Natural Resources
2.
Tribal Cultural Resources
3.
Parks and Recreation
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Environmental Stewardship
2.
Access to Nature
3.
Water Quality, Creeks, and Riparian Areas
4.
Air Quality
10 of 317

--- page 11 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
iv
July 2022
5.
Hillsides
6.
Archaeological Resources and Tribal Cultural Resources
7.
Parks and Recreation
VII.
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES 
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Equitable Access to Public Services and Facilities
2.
Water Supply/Storm Drainage/Wastewater/Street Maintenance
3.
Public Buildings
4.
Schools
5.
Library Services
6.
Hospital and Medical Services
7.
Childcare
8.
Social Services
9.
Communications
10. Solid Waste and Recycling
11. Waste Management
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Community Safety
2.
Water Supply
3.
Sewer and Storm Drainage
4.
Public Services and Facilities
5.
Children and Youth
6.
Healthcare and Social Services
7.
Solid Waste
VIII.
SAFETY 
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations
2.
Geologic and Seismic Hazards
3.
Sea Level Rise and Flood Hazards
4.
Wild Fire Hazards 
5.
Hazardous Materials 
6.
Energy Supply   
11 of 317

--- page 12 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O
DRAFT GENERAL PLAN OUTLINE
P L A C E W O R K S
v
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
1.
Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations 
2.
Geotechnical Hazards 
3.
Flood Hazards 
4.
Sea Level Rise
5.
Wildfire Hazards 
6.
Hazardous Materials 
7.
Energy Supply 
IX.
NOISE
A. INTRODUCTION
B.
BACKGROUND
1.
Basic Concepts of Environmental Noise
2.
Noise in San Mateo
3.
Mitigating Noise Impacts
C. GOALS, POLICIES, AND ACTIONS
X.
APPENDICES
XI.
GLOSSARY
XII.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Separate from General Plan: ACTION PLAN (or IMPLEMENTATION PLAN)
12 of 317

--- page 13 ---
Page 1-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions 
July 2022 
This document includes the draft goals, policies, and actions for San MateoБ─≥s General Plan Update.  
Community feedback helped develop the draft goals, policies and actions, and now the City is seeking 
community input to understand if they reflect the full range of community priorities and if there are other 
new ideas to consider. The draft goals, polices, and actions will be reviewed at a series of community 
events and at meetings of the General Plan Subcommittee, Planning Commission, and City Council over 
the summer and into the fall 2022. More information about these events and meetings can be found at 
www.StriveSanMateo.org.   
After the City Council provides final direction on the draft goals, policies and actions, the General Plan 
team will incorporate them into the Draft General Plan. The City anticipates publishing the Draft General 
Plan in spring 2023. 
Below is a list of each element in the General Plan and a summary of what that element covers. Click on 
an element to review its goals, polices and actions. The elements start at number 2 because the first 
chapter of the General Plan will be the Introduction. 
2. LAND USE  
This element provides guidance for the future use and development of land, and also addresses 
environmental justice issues, community engagement, climate change and sustainability, regional 
cooperation, economic development, and development review. 
3. CIRCULATION  
This element provides guidance to help design a sustainable and comprehensive transportation system 
that is safe and accessible for all users and modes of travel. 
4. HOUSING  
The Housing Element for the sixth housing cycle is being drafted as part of a separate effort to meet state 
requirements. Please visit the CityБ─≥s San Mateo Housing Element 2023-2031 website to learn more.   
5. COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
This element guides the development and physical form of San Mateo from the individual neighborhood 
scale to the overall cityscape and includes actions to help preserve the CityБ─≥s historic resources. 
6. CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS & RECREATION  
This element provides guidance for the development, management, and preservation of San MateoБ─≥s 
natural, cultural, and recreational resources. 
 
 
13 of 317

--- page 14 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
Page 2-2 
7. PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES 
This element addresses public facility and infrastructure needs, such as community safety, water supply, 
sewer and storm drainage, childcare and schools, healthcare and social services, and solid waste. 
8. SAFETY 
This element provides guidance to help protect the community and mitigate potential impacts from 
natural and human-caused hazards, such as flooding, sea level rise, wildfires, seismic and geotechnical, 
and hazardous materials. This element also covers emergency preparedness and energy supply.  
9. NOISE 
This element provides guidance to protect the community from excessive noise exposure. 
ADDITIONAL TOPICS 
In addition to the elements outlined above, there are three other priority topics that are addressed 
throughout the General Plan in multiple elements. These topics Б─⌠ Environmental Justice, Sustainability 
and Resilience, and Community Engagement Б─⌠ are interwoven and support many of the goals, polices and 
actions outlined in the General Plan, so they have been integrated into all applicable elements rather than 
addressed as stand-alone topics. 
Б─╒ ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE 
Low-income communities and communities of color often bear a disproportionate burden of 
pollution and associated health risks; and Environmental Justice seeks to correct this inequity by 
reducing the pollution experienced by these communities and ensuring their input is considered 
in decisions that affect them. State Law requires local governments to identify disadvantaged 
communities and address environmental justice in their general plans. Polices and actions that 
address this topic are included in the Land Use, Circulation, Public Services and Facilities, and 
Conservation, Open Space and Recreations elements, and are highlighted in light green. 
Б─╒ SUSTAINABILITY AND RESILIENCE  
This topic covers how the City will adapt to a changing climate, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
preserve and protect the environment, and transition to a greener economy while preserving and 
enhancing social and equity outcomes for all residents. Polices and actions that address this topic 
are included in all elements of the General Plan except for Noise. 
Б─╒ COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT  
This topic covers how the City will communicate and engage with all residents and stakeholders 
on all matters of development, growth and public policy in ways that are inclusive, equitable and 
give everyone an opportunity to participate in the process. Polices and actions that address this 
topic are included in all elements of the General Plan. 
NOTE: FIGURES REFERENCED IN THE DRAFT POLICIES CAN BE FOUND AT THE END OF EACH ELEMENT. 
THERE ARE ALSO UNREFERENCED FIGURES INCLUDED FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES.  
14 of 317

--- page 15 ---
Page LU-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
2. 
LAND USE ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
BALANCED, ORDERLY, AND EQUITABLE GROWTH AND PRESERVATION   
 
Plan carefully for orderly growth that provides ample housing and job 
opportunities for all citizens, maximizes efficient use of infrastructure, 
limits adverse impacts to the environment and improves social, 
economic, and health equity.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P1.1 
Equitable Development. Prioritize development projects that significantly 
address social and economic needs of the economically vulnerable populations 
to address and reverse the underlying socioeconomic factors in the community 
that contribute to residential and social segregation in the city. (Environmental 
Justice)  
Policy LU-P1.2 
Optimize Development Opportunities. Require new development in major 
commercial areas such as in the Downtown area, Caltrain station areas and 
along El Camino Real to maximize the density and intensity specified in the Land 
Use Plan.  
Policy LU-P1.3 
Mixed-Use.  Encourage mixed-use developments to include a residential 
component provide greater proximity between jobs and housing, promote 
pedestrian activity, and reduce traffic congestion. 
Policy LU-P1.4 
Surplus Land. Consider redesignating surplus land not required for parking lots 
or rail transportation to allow transit-supportive development that is 
compatible with adjacent uses.  
Policy LU-P1.5 
Legal Non-conforming Developments.  Allow legally established non-
conforming uses and buildings to be maintained, have minor expansions where 
appropriate, and be reconstructed if destroyed by fire or natural disaster.  
Encourage reconstruction and/or minor expansions to have a design that is 
visually compatible with surrounding development and complies with the CityБ─≥s 
development standards.  
15 of 317

--- page 16 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-2 
Policy LU-P1.6 
Annexation.  Annex urbanized areas of the unincorporated land adjacent to the 
City limits where landowners petition the City to be annexed, subject to the 
following conditions:  
a. The annexation is comprehensive, rather than piecemeal; and  
b. Landowners will pay the full cost of City services, will assume a proportionate 
share of existing City debts and will contribute to the existing capital 
improvements of the City which will benefit the area to be annexed.  
Policy LU-P1.7 
New Development within the Sphere of Influence.  Work with San Mateo 
County to require new developments and related infrastructure within the 
Sphere of Influence to be consistent with the City's General Plan, Zoning Code 
requirements and development standards.  
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A1.1 
Review of New Development. Periodically review actual growth of both housing 
units and jobs (commercial/office floor area) and make adjusts to infrastructure 
and circulation requirements, as necessary, if actual growth is exceeding 
projections.  
Action LU-A1.2 
Surplus Land Inventory. Maintain a publicly accessible inventory of publicly 
owned  sites.  
 
Balance well-designed development and thoughtful preservation.   
POLICIES  
Policy LU-P2.1 
Development Intensity/Density.  Regulate development density/intensity to 
recognize natural environmental constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake 
faults, debris flow areas and other hazards, availability of urban services and 
transportation and circulation constraints.  
Policy LU-P2.2 
Community Benefits. Allow density/intensity bonuses based on provision of 
community benefits such as affordable housing, increased open space, public 
plazas or recreational facilities, and/or off-site infrastructure improvements 
above minimum requirements.  
Policy LU-P2.3 
Building Height and Density.  [Note: This policy will be developed after receiving 
input from the community and the City Council.]  
Policy LU-P2.4 
Building Intensity. [Note: This policy will be developed after receiving input from 
the community and the City Council.]  
Policy LU-P2.5 
Clustering. Allow clustered development to maximize benefits to natural 
ecology, habitat conservation, and/or preservation of historic resources.  
16 of 317

--- page 17 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-3 
A DIVERSE RANGE OF LAND USES  
 
Provide a wide range of land uses, including housing, parks, open space, 
retail, commercial services, office, and industrial, to adequately meet the 
full spectrum of needs in the community.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P3.1 
Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, walkable residential neighborhoods 
with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals and families of all income 
levels.  
Policy LU-P3.2 
Commercial Development.  Encourage development that is compatible with the 
desired character of the area and with adjacent residential areas in terms of 
intensity of use, height, bulk and design. Require commercial development 
adjacent to residential areas to appropriately address traffic, truck loading, 
trash/recycling, noise, visual impacts, public safety, hazardous material storage, 
fire safety, air pollutant emissions and odors in a way that minimizes impacts on 
neighboring uses.  
Policy LU-P3.3 
Neighborhood Commercial Preservation. Encourage the preservation of small-
scale, local-serving commercial uses in neighborhood shopping districts such as 
the 25th Avenue Shopping Center, Shoreview, Laurelwood and Crystal Springs 
Village.  
Policy LU-P3.4 
Convenience Retail. Encourage and preserve convenience retail uses located 
adjacent to residential neighborhoods, including as part of new mixed-use 
development.  
Policy LU-P3.5 
Support Service Uses. Encourage businesses that provide a variety of support 
service uses such as restaurants, daycare facilities, medical clinics, gyms, 
pharmacies, and markets in locations that are appropriate to serve residential 
neighborhoods and commercial uses, prioritizing underserved areas of the city.  
Policy LU-P3.6 
Hotels.  Encourage development of hotels in commercial areas and allow small 
"bed and breakfast" hotels in mixed-use districts where they are consistent with 
the density of adjacent uses.  
Policy LU-P3.7 
Visitor Economy. Collaborate with other Peninsula cities and San Mateo County 
to support the continued development of the visitor economy of both the City 
and the region, including lodging, entertainment, recreation, retail, and a lively 
local character; encourage uses that attract visitors to locate and stay in the 
City.  
Policy LU-P3.8 
Accessible Workplaces. Develop office buildings and business parks to facilitate 
transit, pedestrian and bicycle commutes. Provide mixed-uses and connectivity 
to transit to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT).  
17 of 317

--- page 18 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-4 
Policy LU-P3.9 
Office Park Evolution. Support the transition of single-use office areas to 
research and development, bio-tech, and life sciences uses, and/or to mixed-use 
districts that include residential, retail, and services. Retain or locate offices 
closest to high-volume roadways and locate new residential uses as far as 
possible from high-volume roadways.   
Policy LU-P3.10 
Service Commercial. Retain service commercial and light industrial uses in San 
Mateo to support local businesses and to meet the needs of residents locally. 
Preserve properties that are zoned for service commercial uses and discourage 
uses that are allowed elsewhere in the City from locating in service commercial 
areas.  
Policy LU-P3.11 
Community Gathering Places. Provide and maintain inviting public spaces and 
streets that provide space for all members of the San Mateo community to 
meet, gather, and enjoy.  
Policy LU-P3.12 
Publicly Accessible Spaces. Integrate a variety of privately owned and 
maintained publicly accessible spaces into new development.  
Policy LU-P3.13 
Cultural Facilities and Public Art. Recognize cultural facilities and public art as 
part of a healthy and thriving community. Use funds from the CityБ─≥s art in-lieu 
fee to enhance existing art and cultural facilities and encourage new facilities 
that reflect the character and identity of the surrounding neighborhoods.  
Policy LU-P3.14 
School Site Reuse or Redevelopment.  Ensure that reuse or redevelopment of 
public school sites is compatible with surrounding land uses.  At the time any 
school sites are being considered for non-educational uses, establish residential 
densities consistent with surrounding densities.  Give first priority and 
consideration to community recreation needs for reuse of school sites in 
accordance with the priorities in the Open Space\Conservation Element.  Where 
it is in the community's interests to retain public recreation facilities, consider 
allowing density transfers from the portion of the site retained in public 
recreation use, as a means of reducing the cost of retaining the recreation 
facilities and achieving the maximum amount of housing.  
Policy LU-P3.15 
Housing in Support of Institutions. Support the development of housing at 
institutions such as schools, churches, and other facilities of an educational, 
religious, charitable, or philanthropic nature as consistent with the mission of 
these organizations.  
Policy LU-P3.16 
Public Facilities.  Encourage reuse or redevelopment of public facilities to 
residential and/or recreational uses that provide a public benefit to the 
community.  
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A3.1 
Permitted Uses. Reevaluate the types of commercial uses that are permitted 
and that require a special use permit in all commercial districts to ensure 
18 of 317

--- page 19 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-5 
requirements are forward looking and aligned with current economic needs and 
trends.  
Action LU-A3.2 
Major Institutions/Special Facilities.  Work with relevant agencies and 
organizations to support the long-term viability of major institutions and special 
facilities that provide important recreational, educational, or medical services, 
such as the San Mateo County Events Center, College of San Mateo, San Mateo 
County Hospital, Mills Health Center, and Peninsula Golf and Country Club. 
Encourage development that is consistent with the primary goal of the 
institution. Require a Specific Plan and/or Master Plan to guide reuse or 
redevelopment of institutions and special facilities in a way that is sensitive to 
adjacent neighborhoods.  
FOCUSED PLANNING AREAS  
DOWNTOWN  
 
Maintain downtown San Mateo as the economic, cultural, and social 
center of the community.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P4.1 
Downtown Land Uses.  Allow and encourage a wide range of residential, office, 
medical, dining, entertainment, and retail uses downtown, at high intensities 
and densities, with strong connectivity to the San Mateo Caltrain station and 
other transit.  
Policy LU-P4.2 
Quality of Downtown Development. Promote quality design of all new 
development that recognizes the regional and historical importance of 
Downtown San Mateo and strengthens its pedestrian-friendly, historic and 
transit-oriented character.  
Policy LU-P4.3 
Significant Historic Structures.  Protect key landmarks, historic structures, and 
the historic character of downtown as defined in the Community Design 
Element.  
ACTIONS  
Action LU-A4.1 
Downtown Area Plan. Update the Downtown Area Plan to support and 
strengthen the Downtown as a vibrant and active commercial, cultural and 
social district. The updated Downtown Area Plan shall align with the General 
Plan, integrate recommendations from other concurrent City efforts, focus 
growth and intensity in proximity to the Caltrain station, update parking 
standards and parking management strategies, allow for increased housing units 
and density, and support high quality pedestrian-oriented design and 
architecture.  
19 of 317

--- page 20 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-6 
Action LU-A4.2 
Downtown Special Events. Continue to provide City assistance and support for 
Downtown activities and special events.  
EL CAMINO REAL 
 
Promote residential land uses along and improvements to El Camino Real 
to strengthen its role as both a local and regional corridor.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P5.1 
Housing on El Camino Real. Encourage new residential uses along El Camino 
Real, as part of both pure residential and mixed-use development, to diversify 
the existing commercial character.  
Policy LU-P5.2 
El Camino Real Landscaping.  Retain the general residential and landscaped 
character of El Camino Real north of Tilton Avenue.  Promote the visual 
upgrading of El Camino Real south of 9th Avenue through increased landscaping, 
coordination of public improvements, property maintenance, and sign control, 
and through conformance with the El Camino Real Master Plan.  
ACTION 
Action LU-A5.1 
Multi-modal Improvements. Collaborate with Caltrans and other partners to 
plan and design improvements to El Camino Real that will prioritize safe, 
convenient transit and alternative transportation.  
HILLSDALE STATION AREA 
 
Promote transit-oriented development around the Hillsdale Caltrain 
station.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P6.1 
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan).  Implement 
the Corridor Plan to allow, encourage, and provide guidance for the creation of 
world class transit-oriented development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the 
Hillsdale Caltrain station area, while maintaining and improving the quality of 
life for those who already live and work in the area.   
Policy LU-P6.2 
Hillsdale Shopping Center.  Allow redevelopment of the Hillsdale Shopping 
Center for a mix of uses, including commercial, retail, office, hotel, and 
residential uses. Require preparation of a Master Development Plan to ensure 
the site is developed comprehensively and provides appropriate transitions to 
the adjacent neighborhoods.   
20 of 317

--- page 21 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-7 
ACTION 
Action LU-A6.1 
Hillsdale Station Area Plan.  Update the Hillsdale Station Area Plan to foster 
higher density residential and mixed-use, transit-oriented development that 
connects to neighborhoods to the east and west, improves bicycle and 
pedestrian circulation and adds park and open space areas.  
SHOPPING CENTERS IN TRANSITION  
 
Support the transition of shopping centers designated for new uses into 
vibrant districts with a range of housing, shopping, services, and jobs.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P7.1 
Bridgepointe, Shoreview, and Bel Mateo Shopping Centers. Support 
redevelopment of the Bridgepointe, Shoreview, and Bel Mateo shopping centers 
with mixed-use development that includes retail, services and housing. Promote 
ongoing retail and services on these sites through design treatment, access, and 
signage.  
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A7.1 
Bridgepointe Area Plan. Update and consolidate the Bridgepointe Master Plan 
and MarinerБ─≥s Island Specific Plan into one planning document to guide 
redevelopment of the Bridgepointe Shopping Center into a mixed-use 
neighborhood with a diverse range of housing types, including affordable 
housing; new parks and recreational facilities; community gathering places; 
ample facilities to support transit, biking, and walking; and a range of businesses 
and services.  
Action LU-A7.2 
Bel Mateo Area Plan. Prepare a Specific Plan or Master Plan to guide 
redevelopment of the Bel Mateo area into a mixed-use neighborhood with a 
diverse range of residential and neighborhood serving commercial uses and 
amenities, and publicly-accessible park and open space areas.  
 
 
 
 
21 of 317

--- page 22 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-8 
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE 
 
Support the equitable health and well-being of all neighborhoods in San 
Mateo and all members of the San Mateo community by improving 
conditions in equity priority communities. 
COMMUNITY HEALTH 
POLICY 
Policy LU-P8.1 
Prioritizing Community Health. Continue to support health and well-being in 
equity priority communities by prioritizing public safety, resolving land use 
conflicts and incompatible uses that pose risks to health or safety, remediating 
contamination, and enforcing building code standards. (Environmental Justice)  
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A8.1 
Collaborations for Community Health. Develop intentional, strategic, mutually 
beneficial relationships with organizations engaged in improving public health 
and wellness, expanding access to affordable quality health care, and providing 
medical services for all segments of the community. Encourage greater 
emphasis on expanding or improving health services in equity priority 
communities. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A8.2 
Health Disparities. Coordinate with the San Mateo County Public Health 
Department to promote healthier communities through education, prevention, 
intervention programs, and other activities that address the root causes of 
health disparities and inequities in San Mateo. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A8.3 
City Investment. Use funds collected by the park impact fee to invest in 
programs and public improvements that connect residents with opportunities to 
increase their physical activity and improve their health, especially in equity 
priority communities with higher risk of negative public health outcomes. 
(Environmental Justice) 
EQUITY PRIORITY COMMUNITIES   
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P8.2 
Community Preservation. Prevent gentrification and displacement in the equity 
priority communities by protecting tenants, helping homeowners remain in 
place, and funding affordable housing. (Environmental Justice)    
Policy LU-P8.3 
Access to Parks and Recreation. Provide attractive, comfortable, and safe 
pedestrian and bike access to public parks and recreational facilities in and near 
22 of 317

--- page 23 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-9 
North Central. Continue to maintain King Center since it is a critical facility in the 
neighborhood. (Environmental Justice) 
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A8.4 
Streetscape and Safety Improvements. Work with residents in equity priority 
communities to identify sidewalk, lighting, landscaping, and roadway 
improvements needed to improve routes to parks, schools, recreation facilities, 
and other destinations within the community. Prioritize investments to address 
health disparities in equity priority communities in the annual Capital 
Improvement Program. (Environmental Justice)  
Action LU-A8.5 
North Central Plan. Prepare a plan for North Central that addresses the 
communityБ─≥s health and safety needs and improves circulation patterns in the 
neighborhood based on community direction. Balance safety improvements 
with preserving the existing parking supply. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A8.6 
City Services. Work with residents in equity priority communities to identify 
services that the City or other partners could provide to improve safety and 
security in these neighborhoods. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A8.7 
Neighborhood Beautification. Partner with neighborhood organizations in 
equity priority communities to support and promote neighborhood clean-up 
and beautification initiatives.  (Environmental Justice) 
ACCESS TO HEALTHY FOOD 
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P8.4 
Locally-Grown Food. Use funds from the CityБ─≥s Park Impact fee to increase 
access to fresh food by allowing and encouraging local food production, micro 
agriculture, edible landscapes, rooftop gardens, community gardens, and urban 
farms, and by distributing information about community-supported agriculture 
programs that provide affordable access to fresh food. (Environmental Justice) 
Policy LU-P8.5 
Retail Food Sources. Strive to ensure that all households in San Mateo, 
including those in equity priority communities, have access to retail sources of 
affordable healthy food, including organic options, such a full-service grocery 
stores, ethnic good markets, local food markets, produce markets, and 
convenience stores, by working to retain existing retail sources and attract new 
ones.  (Environmental Justice) 
Policy LU-P8.6 
Workplace Wellness. Encourage worksite wellness through access to healthier 
food choices in vending machines and promotion of physical activity. 
(Environmental Justice)  
23 of 317

--- page 24 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-10 
Policy LU-P8.7 
Healthy Food in Schools. Support school district efforts to provide healthy foods 
in schools and other public institutions and encourage the school districts to 
distribute information on State and federal programs such as SNAP 
(Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program), WIC (Women, Infants, and 
Children), and school lunch programs. (Environmental Justice) 
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A8.8 
Healthy Food Access. Support the work of San Mateo County Health and other 
local partners to: 
a. Continue and expand the ability to use the Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) 
program at farmers' markets and other sources of healthy food. 
b. Implement programs to encourage markets to stock fresh produce and other 
healthy foods.  
c. Develop a public education program to promote healthier eating, such as 
nutrition workshops, health events, and school or after-school programs 
healthy eating and active living programs.  
d. Enlist restaurants in the CalFresh Restaurant Meals Program, which allows 
people at a high risk of chronic hunger to use CalFresh benefits to buy 
prepared meals at participating restaurants. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A8.9 
Urban Agriculture. Develop City regulations that encourage urban agriculture 
and farm stands, as appropriate. (Environmental Justice) 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
 
Include everyone in community development decisions for a shared, 
sustainable future. 
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P9.1 
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community when planning and development 
decisions are being considered and inform community members about how 
they can engage in the process. Use outreach and engagement methods that 
encourage broad representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for 
historically underserved communities. (Environmental Justice) 
a. Prepare public notices and other materials in the predominant language(s) 
spoken in the community and provide interpretation services at meetings as 
needed.  
b. Make public notices and other important documents available in print at local 
libraries, community centers, or other gathering places. 
c. Use culturally appropriate approaches. 
24 of 317

--- page 25 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-11 
d. When possible, schedule and locate meetings to be convenient for 
community members to attend. 
e. Use the CityБ─≥s website, social media and other communication channels to 
share information about how community members can participate in public 
meetings.  
f. Gather data to understand the economic, gender, age, and racial diversity of 
the affected population before designing communications approaches aimed 
at reaching the affected population. 
g. Provide notification and outreach for development projects using clear and 
easy to understand language to ensure all stakeholders and interested 
community members understand and have the ability to engage in the 
development review process.  
Policy LU-P9.2 
Equitable Engagement. Provide support for increased community participation 
in the planning and development processes, particularly in areas with language 
barriers or a concentration of low income households that have been 
historically underrepresented and/or disproportionately impacted by traffic and 
municipal or industrial uses. (Environmental Justice) 
Policy LU-P9.3 
Applicant Communications. Require that sponsors of new development 
projects, especially those that require Planning Commission and/or City Council 
approval, have early, frequent, and meaningful communication with affected 
citizens and stakeholders, including members of equity priority communities. 
(Environmental Justice) 
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A9.1 
Trusted Partners. Work with community-based organizations and trusted 
messengers to engage members of equity priority communities in planning 
decisions. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A9.2 
Community Surveys. Periodically conduct statistically-reliable community 
surveys to gauge community service needs, policy preferences and effective 
communication methods. (Environmental Justice) 
Action LU-A9.3 
Communications Strategy. Develop a communications strategy that outlines 
goals and tactics to engage a broad cross section of the community.  
 
 
 
25 of 317

--- page 26 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-12 
CLIMATE CHANGE AND SUSTAINABILITY 
 
Make San Mateo strong and resilient by acting boldly to significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to a changing climate.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P10.1 
Effects of Climate Change. Consider the effects of climate change in updating or 
amending the General Plan, disaster planning, City projects, infrastructure 
planning, future policies and long-term strategies. Recognize potential climate 
change consequences such as increased sea level rise, changing weather events, 
less drinking water availability, hotter temperatures, increased wildfire risk, 
changing air quality and more heat related health issues.    
Policy LU-P10.2 
Decarbonized Building Stock. Eliminate the use of fossil fuels as an energy 
source in all new building construction and reduce the use of fossil fuels as an 
energy source in the existing building stock.  
Policy LU-P10.3 
Sustainable Improvements.  Ensure that all improvements to existing structures 
are developed or remodeled in a sustainable manner.   
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A10.1 
Climate Action Plan Implementation. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions each 
year consistent with the Climate Action Plan.  
Action LU-A10.2 
Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions.  Monitor and report progress on the 
implementation of the CityБ─≥s adopted Climate Action Plan on an annual basis.  
Regularly review greenhouse gas emission reduction measures and new 
opportunities consistent with the Climate Action Plan.  
Action LU-A10.3 
Greenhouse Gas Inventory.   Every five years, prepare an updated greenhouse 
gas emissions inventory consistent with the Climate Action Plan.  
Action LU-A10.4 
Renewable Energy. Increase new annual installations of solar or renewable 
energy systems consistent with the Climate Action Plan.  
Action LU-A10.5 
Solar Energy.  Promote or join local partnerships and opportunities that offer 
renewable energy options to residents and/or help inform them of rebates and 
options while ensuring that the permit process is quick and inexpensive.  
Action LU-A10.6 
Building Decarbonization. Evaluate and adopt reach codes and other policies to 
decarbonize the building stock.  
Action LU-A10.7 
Engaging the Public in the Climate Action Plan. Provide public information to 
educate residents and businesses on the Climate Action Plan and to spark 
behavioral changes in individual energy and water consumption, transportation 
mode choices, and waste reduction.  
26 of 317

--- page 27 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-13 
Action LU-A10.8 
Resilience of Critical Facilities and Public Infrastructure. Identify critical 
facilities and public infrastructure in areas vulnerable to climate change hazards 
and work to site, design, and upgrade these facilities with consideration for 
future increases in severity that may occur over the anticipated life of the 
development. In cases where facilities cannot be sustainably maintained, 
evaluate the costs and benefits of relocation. Where facilities can be safely sited 
for the near term, but future impacts are likely, prepare an adaptive 
management plan detailing steps for maintenance, retrofitting, and/or 
relocation. 
A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY 
 
Cultivate a diverse, thriving, inclusive and green economy.   
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P11.1 
Economic Development.  Prioritize the retention and expansion of existing 
businesses and attract new businesses that strengthen and diversify the City's 
economic base.  
Policy LU-P11.2 
Local Employment.  Encourage a diverse mix of uses that provide opportunities 
for employment of residents of all skill and education levels.  
Policy LU-P11.3 
State-of-the-Art Telecommunications. Support the development of 
telecommunications policies and infrastructure to meet the needs of local 
businesses and attract new businesses.  
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A11.1 
Jobs-to-Resident Match. Develop programs to retain and attract businesses that 
provide a living wage, offer health insurance benefits, and match the diverse 
range of education and skills of San Mateo residents.  
Action LU-A11.2 
Small Business Support. Help small businesses stay and grow by offering tools 
and support such as multi-lingual outreach, assistance accessing financing 
opportunities, connecting with the Chamber of Commerce and Downtown 
Business Improvement District, and assistance understanding City requirements 
and preparing for code compliance.  
Action LU-A11.3 
Commercial Displacement. Provide proactive support to local businesses 
affected by construction and redevelopment by communicating with business 
owners well in advance of construction, assisting in identifying potential 
locations for temporary relocation, and encouraging applicants for 
redevelopment projects to retain existing businesses.  
27 of 317

--- page 28 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T    
 
Page LU-14 
Action LU-A11.4 
First Source Hiring. Explore the feasibility of establishing a First Source Hiring 
Program requiring project applicants to make best efforts to hire new 
employees, workers, and subcontractors that are based in San Mateo County.  
FISCAL HEALTH 
 
Create financial stability for the City to maintain the City's ability to 
finance public improvements and human services.  
POLICY 
Policy LU-P12.1 
High City Revenue Generators.  Retain existing businesses and attract new 
businesses which are high City revenue generators to ensure adequate 
resources to pay for infrastructure improvements and to finance needed City 
services such as police, fire, parks, recreation and libraries. 
ACTION 
Action LU-A12.1 
Fiscal Neutrality. Study the feasibility and potential consequences of adopting a 
Fiscal Neutrality Policy that would require developers of projects that do not 
generate net revenue to the City to approve land-secured financing, such as 
Community Facilities Districts, to offset any difference between tax revenues 
and the cost of service.  
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW 
 
Maintain Development Review and Building Permit processes that are 
comprehensive and efficient.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P13.1 
Development Review Process. Review development proposals and building 
permit applications in an efficient and timely manner while maintaining quality 
standards in accordance with City codes, policies, and regulations, and in 
compliance with State requirements.  
Policy LU-P13.2 
Public Education. Promote public awareness of the development review and 
permitting process.  
Policy LU-P13.3 
Fee Information. Maintain an updated schedule of fees and housing 
development affordability requirements, all zoning ordinances and 
development standards, and annual fee or finance reports on the City's website. 
In addition, maintain archives of impact fee nexus studies, cost of service 
studies, or equivalent reports for ease in information sharing with the public.  
 
28 of 317

--- page 29 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  L A N D  U S E  E L E M E N T  
 
 
Page LU-15 
REGIONAL COOPERATION  
 
Collaborate and communicate with other public agencies regarding 
regional issues.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P14.1 
Inter-Agency Cooperation.  Promote and participate in cooperative planning 
with other public agencies, such as the 21 Elements collaboration, and the 
jurisdictions within San Mateo County regarding regional issues such as water 
supply, traffic congestion, rail transportation, wildfire hazards, air pollution, 
waste management, fire services, emergency medical services and climate 
change.  
Policy LU-P14.2 
Public Agency Developments.  Require developments constructed by other 
governmental agencies to conform to the City's General Plan, Zoning Ordinance, 
and other development regulations to the extent legally possible.  
Policy LU-P14.3 
Plan Bay Area. Remain engaged in current and future long-range plans prepared 
by MTC, ABAG, and other regional organizations to influence and be aware of 
projected growth assumptions for San Mateo and regional priorities for 
transportation, infrastructure, and the economy that could affect the City.  
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE 
 
Ensure that the City's General Plan is consistent with State Law, legally 
adequate, and up-to-date.  
POLICIES 
Policy LU-P15.1 
General Plan Amendments.  Amendments to the General Plan shall be 
considered a maximum of four times per year to ensure that Elements remain 
consistent and that the overall effect of Plan amendments is considered.  
Policy LU-P15.2 
Specific and Master Plans. All adopted development plans, such as Specific 
Plans and Master Plans, should be consistent with this General Plan.   
ACTIONS 
Action LU-A15.1 
Annual General Plan Progress Report. Submit an Annual Progress Report on the 
status of the General Plan implementation to the City Council and to the Office 
of Planning and Research by April 1 each year, per Government Code Section 
65400.  
Action LU-A15.2 
Specific Plans and Master Plans. Review all adopted Specific Plans and Master 
Plans and determine if updates are needed for consistency with this General 
Plan or if any out-of-date plans should be retired.  
29 of 317

--- page 30 ---
San
Fran
cisc
o Ba
y
!7
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
El Camino Real
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Ala
m
e
d
a De
Las Pulgas
Fa
s
h
io
n
Island Blvd
W
H
ill
s
dal
e
Blvd
Pa
r
rot
Dr
B
a
yridge Way
Ascension Dr
бё
бє
101
!5
!4
ц≈
1-N
ц≈
1-C
ц≈
1-S
!3
!6
!
10
!8
!9
!2
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82
бЇ|}ц╬
 82
CITY COUNCIL
PREFERRED SCENARIO
Study Areas
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Historic Districts
P
Privately Owned Public Open Space
I2
Caltrain Station
Caltrain
1,000 Foot Radius Around Caltrain
бҐ Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
Office Low (1-3 stories)
Office Medium (4-7 stories)
Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Parks/ Open Space
Public Facilities
Quasi-Public
Transportation Corridor
Utilities
0
0.5
0.25
Miles
PREFERRED 
SCENARIO
FIGURE LU-1
GENERAL PLAN
LAND USE
CITY OF SAN MATEO July 2022
*Please note this map is not final. The City is working on updating the map to address direction received by the City Council on July 18th.  
This map will be revised as soon as the final version has been prepared.
30 of 317

--- page 31 ---
Page C-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
3. 
CIRCULATION ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION 
 
Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that is 
sustainable, safe, and accessible for all users and that connects the 
community utilizing all modes of transportation.   
POLICIES 
Policy C-P1.1 
Sustainable Transportation. Reduce GHG emissions from transportation by 
increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as walking, bicycling, 
and public transit.  
Policy C-P1.2 
Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are 
streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users 
regardless of age or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, 
or driving.  
Policy C-P1.3 
Vision Zero. Work towards eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Use 
a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, 
emergency response, and maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities 
to improve safety where conflicts between users exist.  
Policy C-P1.4 
Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize pedestrian and 
bicycle mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and 
intersection improvements.    
Policy C-P1.5 
El Camino Real. Prioritize high-capacity travel along El Camino Real.  
Policy C-P1.6 
Transit-Oriented Development.  Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the CityБ─≥s Caltrain stations and transit corridors.   
Policy C-P1.7 
Equitable Multimodal Network. Prioritize new amenities, programs and 
multimodal projects, developed based on community input and data analysis, in 
San MateoБ─≥s disadvantaged neighborhoods. (Environmental Justice) 
Policy C-P1.8 
New Development Fair Share. Require new developments to pay a 
transportation impact fee to mitigate cumulative transportation impacts.  
31 of 317

--- page 32 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page C-2 
Policy C-P1.9 
Dedication of Right-of-Way for Transportation Improvements. Require 
dedication of needed right-of-way for transportation improvements identified in 
adopted City plans, including pedestrian facilities, bikeways, and trails.  
Policy C-P1.10 
Inclusive Outreach.  Involve the community in the CityБ─≥s efforts to design and 
implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and 
accessible for all users. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage 
broad representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically 
underserved communities.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A1.1 
Complete Streets Plan. Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the CityБ─≥s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street 
users of all ages and abilities.   
Action C-A1.2 
Vision Zero Plan. Complete and regularly update a Plan that uses a safe systems 
approach to work towards Vision Zero and identifies specific citywide changes 
to policies, practices, funding, and other action items that will reduce speeding, 
collisions, and collision severity.  
Action C-A1.3 
El Camino Real Plan. Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners to 
prepare and implement a plan to accommodate higher capacity and frequency 
travel along El Camino Real, exploring Bus Rapid Transit and other modes of 
alternative transportation.  
Action C-A1.4 
Safe Routes for Seniors. Develop a "safe routes for seniors" program to 
promote active transportation connections for seniors in collaboration with 
seniors' organizations. Prioritize improvements for seniors in disadvantaged 
communities.  
Action C-A1.5 
Data Driven Approach to Project Design and Prioritization.  Inform the 
prioritization of improvement projects through the consistent collection and 
analysis of modal activity data which reveals where the highest concentration of 
pedestrian, bicycle, and transit trips occur.  
Action C-A1.6 
Safety Education. Pursue safety education to increase awareness for all street 
users.  
Action C-A1.7 
Transportation Funding. Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in these 
plans.  
Action C-A1.8 
Transportation Fees. Adopt and maintain fees and fiscal policies to fund 
circulation improvements and programs equitably and achieve operational 
goals.  
32 of 317

--- page 33 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page C-3 
Action C-A1.9 
Performance and Monitoring.  Monitor the City's mode split progress on 
reducing VMT, and reducing GHG emissions from VMT, as data is available.  
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT 
 
Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number 
and length of single-occupancy vehicle trips and encourage sustainable 
travel behaviors through policy, zoning strategies, and targeted context-
appropriate programs and incentives.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P2.1 
TDM Requirements. Require new or existing developments that meet specific 
size, capacity, and/or context conditions to implement TDM strategies.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A2.1 
Implement TDM Ordinance. Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance 
for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. 
Consider parking requirement reductions for projects that include TDM 
measures.  
Action C-A2.2 
TDM Education and Outreach. Pursue education for developers and employees 
about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the 
resulting benefits.  
Action C-A2.3 
Leverage TDM Partnership Opportunities. Work with regional partners to 
identify and fund TDM strategies that can be implemented at new and existing 
developments.  
Action C-A2.4 
Facilitate TDM Services. Facilitate the provision of TDM services to employees 
and residents through development agreements, TMAs, and coordination with 
regional partners.  
Action C-A2.5 
Travel to Schools. Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number 
of students walking or bicycling to school through expanded implementation of 
Safe Routes to School. Prioritize school travel safety improvements in 
disadvantaged communities. 
Action C-A2.6 
New Development Shuttle Services. As an option to fulfill TDM requirements, 
encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from activity 
centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and 
schedules of all riders, including service workers.  
33 of 317

--- page 34 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page C-4 
Action C-A2.7 
Unbundled Parking. Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs 
of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity 
created by unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces.  
PEDESTRIANS 
 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network 
that provides access to community destinations such as employment 
centers, transit, schools, shopping and recreation.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P3.1 
Pedestrian Network. Create and maintain a safe, walkable environment in San 
Mateo to increase the number of people who choose to walk. Maintain an 
updated recommended pedestrian network for implementation.  
Policy C-P3.2 
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development.  Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace 
damaged sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in 
adopted City master plans. Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-
oriented design to facilitate pedestrian path of travel.  
Policy C-P3.3 
Right-of-Way Improvements. Require new developments to construct or 
contribute to improvements that enhance the pedestrian experience including 
human-scale lighting, streetscaping, and accessible sidewalks.  
Policy C-P3.4 
Utility Undergrounding.  Require new private development to underground 
utilities adjacent to the site.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A3.1 
Implement Pedestrian Improvements. Implement goals, programs, and projects 
in the CityБ─≥s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of 
the pedestrian network.  
Action C-A3.2 
Utility Undergrounding Requirements. Amend the San Mateo Municipal Code 
to require new private development to underground utilities on and adjacent to 
the site and to install and maintain signs, streetlights, and street landscaping 
adjacent to sidewalks.  
Action C-A3.3 
Pedestrian Trails and Routes Awareness. Increase awareness of existing trails 
and routes by working with outside agencies and developers to promote these 
amenities to residents. Continue collaborating with the County on development 
of the trail network.  
34 of 317

--- page 35 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page C-5 
Action C-A3.4 
Access for Users of All Ages and Abilities. Implement the ADA Transition Plan 
and maintain accessible streets and sidewalks. Use industry standards for 
guidance when implementing design standards.  
Action C-A3.5 
Pedestrian Connectivity. Incorporate design for pedestrian connectivity across 
intersections in transportation projects to provide safe interaction with other 
modes.  
Action C-A3.6 
Safe Routes to School. Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide 
support to increase number of students walking to school.   
Action C-A3.7 
Downtown Pedestrian Mall. Complete design and fund improvements to fully 
transition B Street between 1st Street and 3rd Street into a pedestrian mall.  
BICYCLES AND MICROMOBILITY 
 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and 
micromobility network that provides access to community destinations 
such as employment centers, transit, schools, shopping, and recreation.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P4.1 
Bicycle Network. Create and maintain a bike-friendly environment in San Mateo 
and increase the number of people who choose to bike.  
Policy C-P4.2 
Bicycle Master Plan. Maintain an updated recommended bicycle network for 
implementation in the adopted Bicycle Master Plan and related City plans.  
Policy C-P4.3 
First- and Last-Mile Connections. Encourage and facilitate provision of bicycle 
parking and shared mobility options at transit centers to provide first- and last-
mile connections.  
Policy C-P4.4 
Bicycle Related Technology.  Explore ways to use technology to improve bicycle 
safety and connectivity.  
Policy C-P4.5 
Bicycle Improvements. Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience including bike lanes.  
Policy C-P4.6 
Coordination with other City Projects. Maximize opportunities to implement 
bicycle facilities through other City of San Mateo projects.  
35 of 317

--- page 36 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page C-6 
Policy C-P4.7 
Interjurisdiction Coordination.  Continue to coordinate with adjacent 
jurisdictions and regional partners in the development of connected bicycle and 
pedestrian facilities and regional trails as identified in adopted City plans.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A4.1 
Bicycle Master Plan Implementation. Implement the Bicycle Master PlanБ─≥s 
recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, 
safe, and logical bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. 
Update the Bicycle Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future 
bicycle and micromobility facility needs to support the CityБ─≥s circulation 
network. Provide an adequate supply of short- and long-term bicycle parking to 
support increased ridership.   
Action C-A4.2 
Paving Coordination. Coordinate and fund the implementation of bicycle 
facilities identified in the Bicycle Master Plan with the City's paving program.  
Action C-A4.3 
Connectivity Across Freeway Barriers. Conduct feasibility studies and design 
alternatives for overcrossings at US 101 and SR 92 to facilitate connectivity 
across major barriers.  
Action C-A4.4 
Bay Trail. Identify State and County programs to continue pursuing safe 
pedestrian and bicycle access to and extension of the San Francisco Bay Trail 
through coordination with neighboring jurisdictions.  
Action C-A4.5 
Crystal Springs. Pursue safe pedestrian and bicycle access to San Francisco 
Water District lands via Crystal Springs Road through coordination with the 
Town of Hillsborough and with State and County assistance.  
Action C-A4.6 
Bicycle Detection Devices. Install innovative signal modifications on existing and 
planned bikeways to detect bicyclists and micromobility usersБ─≥ presence at 
intersections and facilitate their safe movement through the intersection.  
Action C-A4.7 
Increased Bicycle Capacity on Caltrain and SamTrans. Coordinate with Caltrain 
and SamTrans to support\increased bicycle capacity on transit vehicles and to 
provide an adequate supply of secure covered bicycle and micromobility parking 
at Caltrain stations, transit centers, and major bus stops.  
TRANSIT AND MOBILITY SERVICES 
 
Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by 
supporting frequent, reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P5.1 
Increase Transit Ridership. Work with SamTrans and Caltrain to increase transit 
ridership.   
36 of 317

--- page 37 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page C-7 
Policy C-P5.2 
Caltrain. Support Caltrain as a critical transit service in the City and Peninsula.  
Policy C-P5.3 
California High Speed Rail. Support and facilitate local and regional efforts to 
implement High Speed Rail. Work to provide multimodal connections between 
San Mateo and planned High Speed Rail stations.  
Policy C-P5.4 
Safety at At-Grade Rail Crossings. Eliminate existing at-grade rail crossings to 
improve safety and local multimodal circulation.  
Policy C-P5.5 
Transit Safety. Prioritize improvements to increase safety, access, comfort, and 
educate the public about the benefits of transit use at transit centers and bus 
stops in disadvantaged communities, along commercial corridors, and in dense, 
mixed-use neighborhoods.  
Policy C-P5.6 
Transit Access in New Developments.  Require new development projects to 
incorporate design elements that facilitate or improve access to public transit.   
ACTIONS 
Action C-A5.1 
Grade Separation Study. Conduct a grade separation feasibility study for all at-
grade rail crossings in San Mateo. Identify funding to complete these grade 
crossing improvements.  
Action C-A5.2 
Transit Experience Improvements. Prioritize installing new transit shelters and 
benches or other seating and an energy-efficient street lighting program at 
transit stops in disadvantaged communities and areas that improve transit 
access, safety and experience.  
Action C-A5.3 
Transit Ridership.  Coordinate with SamTrans, Caltrain, and Joint Powers Board 
(JPB) to support implementation of transit improvements, including the 
following: 
Б─╒ 
Transit priority treatments, such as signal priority, on high frequency 
transit corridors. 
Б─╒ 
Extended hours to provide service for shift workers. 
Б─╒ 
Bus rapid transit (BRT) in San Mateo. 
Б─╒ 
Caltrain modernization, electrification, transit experience 
improvements, and increased service frequency.  
Б─╒ 
Support implementation of Caltrain's business plan, including increased 
service to San MateoБ─≥s three stations. 
Б─╒ 
Improve Caltrain station access by ensuring sidewalks and bikeways 
near each station are designed to provide safe and convenient access to 
and from transit. 
37 of 317

--- page 38 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page C-8 
Б─╒ 
Support regional transit integration and expansion efforts to improve 
seamless access to BART, High Speed Rail, and other regional transit 
systems.  
Action C-A5.4 
Shuttle Programs. Continue to support public shuttle programs connecting to 
Caltrain stations. Work to expand public awareness and access to shuttles and 
expand shuttle service. Support the implementation of publicly accessible 
private shuttles.  
ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS 
 
Achieve a transportation system that accommodates future growth, 
reduces vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita, and maintains efficient 
operations for all modes.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P6.1 
Roadway Operations. Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all 
intersections and all modes within the City.  
Policy C-P6.2 
Circulation Improvement Plan. Maintain a transportation network that will 
accommodate future growth, reduce VMT per capita, and equitably implement 
complete streets.  
Policy C-P6.3 
Local Transportation Analysis. Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the CityБ─≥s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy 
for development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on 
the roadway system.   
Policy C-P6.4 
Neighborhood Traffic. Implement traffic calming measures on residential 
streets to reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds.  
Policy C-P6.5 
Truck Routes. Maintain and update the truck route network to utilize roadways 
that are adequately designed for truck usage and minimize potential conflicts 
with other transportation modes.  
Policy C-P6.6 
Capital Improvement Program. Prioritize improvements that increase person 
throughput in project prioritization in order to reduce VMT.  
Policy C-P6.7 
Traffic Signal Installation. A warrant analysis may be used to determine the 
need for signalization and shall include consideration of both existing and 
projected traffic and pedestrian volumes, traffic delays and interruptions, 
collision history, and proximity of sensitive land uses, such as schools. A 
development project may be required to fund signalization and maintenance of 
off-site unsignalized intersections if warranted as determined by the 
appropriate transportation analysis.  
38 of 317

--- page 39 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page C-9 
Policy C-P6.8 
Emergency Signal Preemption. Require new and upgraded signals to include 
pre-emption for emergency vehicles to maintain and enhance emergency 
response times.  
ACTIONS: 
Action C-A6.1 
Multimodal Level of Service Standard. Evaluate and adopt an operational 
metric for all roadway users that accounts for the safe, equitable, and efficient 
roadway access.  
Action C-A6.2 
Prioritization and Timing of Roadway Improvements. Revise the Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) prioritization system to include additional criteria 
such as: potential to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita; proximity 
to high-injury locations identified in the Local Roads Safety Plan; eligibility and 
availability of grant or other funding source; benefit or harm to disadvantaged 
communities; and correlation with the distribution and pace of development, 
reflecting the degree of need for mitigation.  
Action C-A6.3 
Congestion Management. Work with neighboring agencies and regional 
partners, such as the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo 
County (C/CAG), to implement traffic management strategies and technologies, 
such as signal coordination, to manage local traffic congestion.  
PARKING MANAGEMENT 
 
Use parking, enforcement and curb management strategies to effectively 
administer parking supply and maximize utilization of public assets.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P7.1 
Parking Management. Manage parking through appropriate pricing, 
enforcement, and other strategies to support economic growth and vitality, 
transportation equity, and environmental sustainability. Ensure that the 
available parking supply is utilized at levels that meet ongoing needs without 
inducing additional demand or hindering future development.  
Policy C-P7.2 
Shared Parking. Encourage new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing 
parking supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and 
encourage "park once" behavior in commercial areas.  
Policy C-P7.3 
Public Parking. Maximize opportunities to expand the availability of existing 
parking by supporting the use of public/shared parking at private developments, 
discouraging reserved parking at new developments, providing incentives for 
developments to include shared/public parking, and allowing developers to fund 
public parking in-lieu of meeting parking demand/requirements on site.  
39 of 317

--- page 40 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page C-10 
Policy C-P7.4 
Bicycle Parking. Require the provision of bicycle parking as part of new private 
developments.  
Policy C-P7.5 
Curbside Management. Manage the supply and utilization of the curb to 
maintain an optimal balance between mobility, storage, placemaking, and 
loading uses allowing for flexibility for adaptive re-use, safety improvements, 
and activation of curb space whenever possible.  
Policy C-P7.6 
Loading Areas in New Developments.  Require adequate off-street loading in 
new development. Consider shared loading where feasible.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A7.1 
Parking Maximums. Amend the zoning ordinance to replace parking minimums 
with parking maximums to allow developers and the City the flexibility to 
provide parking at levels that encourage desired development and are 
appropriate to the conditions of the development and its context.  
Action C-A7.2 
Parking Management Strategies. Deploy enhanced parking management 
strategies, parking enforcement, and evaluate dynamic parking pricing 
strategies that fluctuate based on peak parking and/or district level parking 
demands.  
Action C-A7.3 
Curbside Management Strategies. Evaluate and implement curb management 
strategies such as incentivizing or discouraging certain types of trips, mode 
choices, and behaviors in favor of broader mobility goals.  
Action C-A7.4 
Emerging Technology for Curbside Management. Evaluate and implement 
performance monitoring and evaluation systems, such as digitization of curbside 
assets, to dynamically manage evolving curbside demands.  
Action C-A7.5 
Truck Loading. Evaluate and implement ways to reduce conflicts between truck 
loading and pedestrian, bicycle, and transit networks.  
Action C-A7.6 
Public Bicycle Parking. Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City 
facilities, and transit facilities.  
Action C-A7.7 
Mechanical Parking Lift. Adopt and maintain an updated mechanical parking lift 
code or policy.  
 
40 of 317

--- page 41 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C I R C U L A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page C-11 
FUTURE MOBILITY AND TECHNOLOGY 
 
Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership 
framework that flexibly encourages emerging transportation 
technologies in service of City and community goals.  
POLICIES 
Policy C-P8.1 
Emerging Technologies. Monitor, evaluate, test, and implement new 
technologies that expand options for safe and efficient trip making.  
Policy C-P8.2 
Equitable Mobility Options. Prioritize the needs and perspectives of residents 
of disadvantaged communities, those who speak limited English, and low-
income, senior, and disabled travelers in the design, deployment, and 
management of new mobility services and technologies. (Environmental Justice)   
Policy C-P8.3 
Mobility Data. Leverage mobility data to support new policies, investments, and 
programmatic actions in service of City goals.  
ACTIONS 
Action C-A8.1 
Umbrella Regulations for Modern Mobility. Develop comprehensive 
regulations and infrastructure standards that are not exclusive to specific 
service providers and that support a spectrum of digital information, 
micromobility services, and connected and autonomous vehicles.  
Action C-A8.2 
Strategic Partnerships and Pilots. Create strategic partnerships and pilots with 
the mobility industry and community organizations that increase mobility 
options for San Mateans.  
Action C-A8.3 
Future-Ready Infrastructure. Establish public realm policies and tools that 
reflect San MateoБ─≥s goals and priorities in the design and management of 
streets, curbs, sidewalks, and parking facilities to account for emerging mobility 
trends and changes in demand over time.  
Action C-A8.4 
Equitable Mobility Technology. Develop an equitable mobility policy and data 
sharing requirements for vendors to ensure equitable deployment of emerging 
mobility options with consideration of residents who may be digitally 
challenged.  
Action C-A8.5 
Intelligent Transportation Systems. Evaluate and deploy Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (ITS) measures to efficiently manage traffic operations 
and incident response, enhance transit service efficiency, and better detect and 
prioritize the travel and safety of people walking and biking.  
 
41 of 317

--- page 42 ---
!
!
!
!!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
I2
I2
I2
I2
I2
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
PENINSULA GOLF
AND COUNTRY
CLUB (UNINC)
Monte Diablo Ave
Alameda De Las Pulgas
Ke
ho
e Ave
41st Ave
28th Ave
N
A
m
p
h
l
e
tt
Blvd
S N
orfol
k St
W
39th Ave
Tilton Ave
El C
amino Real
W
Hill
s
da
le
Bl
vd
E
28t
h
Ave
E
d
inburgh
St
W
P
o
p
l
a
r
A
ve
16th Ave
S Delaware St
W
o
o
d
b
r
i
dge
C
ir
N E
l Camino Real
Saratog
a
D
r
Palm Av
e
S B St
P
a
r
kwood
Dr
C
l
ark
D
r
30th
Av
e
31st
Ave
Monterey St
S
Gr
a
nt
St
Birch St
Los
P
r
a
d
o
s
Yew
St
E Poplar Ave
Lodi
Av
e
Branson Dr
h
Blv
d
N
San Mateo Dr
S Amphlett Blvd
Sh
oal
Dr
Polhe
mu
s
Rd
Mariners Island Blvd
Q
u
ee
ns Ln
J Hart Clinton Dr
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
V
a
n
Buren St
Hacienda St
2n
d
Ave
W
3
r
d
A
v
e
C
re
s
c
e
n
t
A
v
e
E 3rd Ave
D
e
Anza Blv
d
B
o
r
el
A
v
e
Sunnybrae Blvd
Eisenhower St
La Selva St
N Humboldt St
43rd Ave
H
ar
va
rd
R
d
Dolores St
Cli
p
p
e
r
St
Laurel Ave
F
a
t
h
o
m
Dr
W
20th
Ave
Norton St
Dale
Ave
Oregon Ave
Flores St
7th Ave
S Claremont St
Bucknell
D
r
Maple St
San Miguel
Way
E 39th Ave
Virginia
A
v
e
Casanova Dr
E
40th Ave
E
dg
e
w
o
o
d
R
d
L
i
v
e
O
a
k
Dr
Newbridge A
v
e
37
th
A
v
e
23rd A
ve
York Ave
C
l
e
arview W
ay
S Fremont St
Baldw
i
n Ave
W
5
th
Ave
Is
abelle
Ave
Fer
n
w
o
o
d
St
N Idaho St
Donner St
27th Ave
W 38th Ave
Edison St
Pacific
Bl
v
d
P
a
l
o
s
V
er
d
e
s
Dr
Kim
b
er
ly
W
a
y
Huron
A
v
e
Peninsula Ave
W
olf
e
Dr
R
o
be
rt
a
Dr
S Quebec St
1st
A
v
e
N
Ellsworth Ave
Annapolis Dr
Kent St
Hamlet St
Ottawa St
E
n
s
e
n
a
d
a Ave
Sho
r
e
v
i
e
w
Ave
N Kingston St
17th Ave
Fo
o
t
h
i
l
l
D
r
Mason Ln
R
o
y
al
A
v
e
E
c
h
o
Ave
O
cean View Ave
Laurie Meadows Dr
W
o
o
d
l
a
n
d
D
r
L
o
s
A
l
t
o
s
Dr
Nevada Ave
E Hill
s
d
al
e
Ct
S Humboldt St
S Eldorado St
E
Hillsdale Blvd
Glend
ora
D
r
Fairfax
A
v
e
29th Ave
N Delaware St
Rolling Hills Ave
Occidental Ave
Woodberry Ave
N Claremont St
Hig
hl
a
n
d
Ave
W 40th Ave
Pico Ave
Sunset Ter
H
u
r
li
ng
h
am
Av
e
M
a
r
i
n
a
Ct
C
r
est
wo
o
d
Dr
Avila Rd
Col
u
m
bi
a
Dr
V
i
lla
Ter
11th Ave
13th Ave
15th Ave
S Bays
hore Blvd
S Railroad A
v
e
Ra
mo
na
St
N Fremont St
N Grant St
Cobb St
Laurelwood Dr
Shafter St
Castilian Way
Meadow View Pl
Oak St
19th
Ave
W 25th Ave
Geor
g
e
t
o
w
n
Ave
Poinsetti
a Ave
Madison Ave
N Rochester St
Verdun
A
v
e
Oneill Dr
Alhambra Rd
Guildford Ave
Fallon Ave
Bri
d
ge
po
in
te Pkwy
Fa
irmont Dr
V
i
e
w
r
i
d
g
e
Dr
C
o
untrysid
e Dr
Ch
e
r
ry
wood
Dr
S Norfolk St
S Delaware St
W    
Hil
lsd
ale
 B
lvd
San 
Fra
nci
sco
 Ba
y
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
!
10
!2
!9
!6
!8
!3
!4
!5
!7
!1
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
El Camino Real
Coyote Point
Recreaф÷on Area
бё
бє
101
N Norfolk St
S Idaho St
Alameda De Las Pulgas
N Humbolt St
E Poplar Ave
3rd Ave
Ala
m
e
da
 D
e L
as 
Pulgas
Fa
s
h
ion
 Isl
an
d Blv
d
W H
ill
s
da
le
 B
l
vd
Par
ro
t 
Dr
B
a
y
ri
dg
e
 
Way
Lex
in
g
to
n 
A
v
e
New Brun
Ascension Dr
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
(Future)
Belmont
Crossing Improvements
! Current Caltrain At-Grade Crossings
! Proposed Pedestrian Crossing Improvements
!
Proposed Peninsula Interchange Project 
Line Improvements
Sphere of InО╛┌uence
Study Area
2012 Proposed Pedestrian Priority Network
Transit Improvements
Exisф÷ng Pedestrian Mall 
(Street Closure)
El Camino Real Bikeway, Public Realm & BRT Improvements
Exisф÷ng Bikeways
Exisф÷ng Shared Bike and Ped Path
Pedestrian Improvements, Diverted TraО╛┐c
Proposed Bikeways
Proposed Shared Bike and Ped Path
Missing Sidewalks
I2
Caltrain Staф÷on
Source Data: 
City of San Mateo, 2019; 
San Mateo County, 2018; Esri, 2019; 
PlaceWorks, 2019; 
Nelson Nygaard, 2020.
0
Scale (Miles)
.5
PREFERRED 
CIRCULATION SCENARIO
FIGURE C-1
GENERAL PLAN
CIRCULATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO July 2022
42 of 317

--- page 43 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: City of San Mateo Public Works
Amendment by the City Council November 7, 2011
STREET
CLASSIFICATION
FIGURE C-2
GENERAL PLAN
CIRCULATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
STREET CLASSIFICATION
Freeway
Arterial
Collector
Local
For planning purposes only.
43 of 317

--- page 44 ---
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ !
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ
!
бҐ!
бҐ
P
P
!
C
P
!
C
P
!
C
P
!
C
P
!
C
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E 2
8t
h
A
v
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale
Belmon
Source: 511.org
TRANSIT ROUTES
FIGURE C-3
GENERAL PLAN
CIRCULATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
P
!
C
Caltrain Station
!
бҐ
SamTrans Bus Stop
Caltrain Line
SamTrans Bus Routes
Railroad
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
For planning purposes only.
44 of 317

--- page 45 ---
|ц©
82
|ц©
82
|ц©
92
|ц©
92
|ц©
92
280
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
SAN MATEO
HIGH SCHOOL
ARAGON HIGH
SCHOOL
HILLSDALE
HIGH SCHOOL
SAN MATEO
COMMUNITY
COLLEGE
Burlingame
San Mateo
Hayward Park
Hillsdale (Future)
Belmont
KEHO
E AVE
SUNNYBRAE BLVD
HACIENDA ST
W
3RD
AVE
28TH AVE
E
POPLAR
AVE
9TH AVE
E 3RD AVE
ALAMEDA DE LAS PU
LGAS
E 5TH AVE
W
HILL
S
DA
L
E B
L
VD
E
DINBURGH ST
LA SELVA ST
N HUMBOLDT ST
W 20TH AVE
DALE AVE
S DELAWARE ST
SARATOGA D
R
PALM AVE
S
NORFOLK ST
S SAN
MATEO DR
S B ST
31ST AVE
W
5
TH AVE
FERN
WOO
D ST
EDISON ST
42ND
AVE
PARROTT DR
DE
A
N
Z
A
BLVD
36
TH AVE
PENINSULA AVE
ROBER
T
A
DR
BERMU
DA
DR
N KINGSTON ST
PACIFIC BLVD
BARNESON AVE
HOBART AVE
PASADENA DR
FLORES ST
26TH AVE
CRYSTAL SPRINGS RD
N SAN MATEO DR
N DELAWARE ST
OCCIDENTAL AVE
N B ST
L
O
S P
R
A
D
O
S
GLEN
DORA
D
R
N
CL
ARE
MONT ST
HIGHL
AND AVE
FASHION ISL
AND
BLVD
BAZ
E RD
M
A
R
IN
E
R
S
ISL
A
ND
BLVD
POLHEMUS
RD
LAURELWO
O
D
DR
19TH A
VE
*City will implement a bikeway on either 39th or
42nd Ave (from Edison St to Pacific Blvd) pending
further analysis of each alignment.
NOTE
Requiring further study
Bicycle Facilities
Existing
Shared Use Path
Buffered Bike Lane
Bike Lane
Bike Route
Proposed
Shared Use Path
Separated Bike Lane
Buffered Bike Lane
Bike Lane
Bicycle Boulevard
Bike Route
Other
Caltrain Stations
Rail Lines
Parks
Schools
Water
Intersection Treatments
May Require Further Study
б╠
0
1
0.5
mi
BICYCLE NETWORK
FIGURE C-4
GENERAL PLAN
CIRCULATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO October 2021
45 of 317

--- page 46 ---
Page CD-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
5. 
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC RESOURCES ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
NATURAL LANDSCAPES AND THE URBAN FOREST 
 
Preserve and enhance San MateoБ─≥s natural setting as an irreplaceable 
asset and the physical foundation of the community.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P1.1 
Respect for the Landscape. Encourage new development to respect and 
respond to the natural topography of San Mateo.  
Policy CD-P1.2 
Preservation of Natural Focal Points.  Preserve and enhance views of and 
access to the foothills and the Bay through the design of new development to 
the extent feasible.  
Policy CD-P1.3 
New Development Requirements.  Require new developments to protect and 
enhance the character of scenic roadways and trails designated on Figure C/OS-
4, including land uses, signs, screening, and preservation of view corridors.  
 
Protect heritage trees, street trees, and tree stands and maintain the 
health and condition of San MateoБ─≥s urban forest.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P2.1 
Tree Preservation.  Continue to preserve protected heritage and street trees 
throughout San Mateo.  
Policy CD-P2.2 
Replacement Planting.  Require replacement planting or payment of an in-lieu 
fee when the removal of protected heritage and street trees is permitted.  
Policy CD-P2.3 
New Development Requirements.  Require the protection of trees during 
construction activity; require that landscaping, buildings, and other 
improvements located adjacent to trees be designed and maintained to be 
consistent with the continued health of the tree.  
Policy CD-P2.4 
Public Awareness.  Pursue public awareness and education programs 
concerning the identification, care, and regulation of trees.  
Policy CD-P2.5 
Tree Maintenance.  Preserve and regularly maintain existing protected heritage 
and street trees to keep them in a safe, healthy and aesthetic condition.  
46 of 317

--- page 47 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
Page CD-2 
Policy CD-P2.6 
New Development Street Trees.  Require street tree planting where feasible as 
a condition of all new developments.  
Policy CD-P2.7 
Street Tree Planting.  Encourage the planting of new street trees to increase the 
tree canopy throughout the city and especially in gateway areas and in tree 
deficient neighborhoods; encourage neighborhood participation in tree planting 
programs.  
Policy CD-P2.8 
Tree Stand Retention.  Preserve the character of stands or groves of trees in the 
design of new or modified projects, where feasible.  
ACTION 
Action CD-A2.1 
Tree Planting Funding. Identify non-City funded tree planting programs and 
other funding sources for tree planting efforts on an annual basis.  
HISTORIC RESOURCES 
 
Preserve historic and culturally important structures, assets, and districts 
to maintain San MateoБ─≥s special identity and continuity with the past.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P3.1 
Historic Preservation. Preserve historic buildings where feasible.  
Policy CD-P3.2 
Historic Districts. Consider the protection of concentrations of buildings which 
convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere of 
exceptional architectural interest or integrity, when they meet identified state 
and local standards.  
Policy CD-P3.3 
Historic Building Definition. Define historic buildings as those that are on or 
individually eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, California 
Register of Historical Resources, or Downtown Historic District contributor 
buildings as designated in the 1989 Historic Building Survey Report, or as 
determined to be eligible through documentation contained in a historic 
resources report.  
Policy CD-P3.4 
Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City's 
historic, architectural, and archaeological resources and educate the community 
about how to preserve and improve these resources.  
Policy CD-P3.5 
Historic Structure Renovation and Rehabilitation. Promote the renovation and 
rehabilitation of historic structures that conforms to the Secretary of the 
Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic 
Structures and the California Historical Building Code and prioritize historic 
structures for available rehabilitation funds. 
47 of 317

--- page 48 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
 
Page CD-3 
Policy CD-P3.6 
Historic Preservation Funding. Pursue and promote historic preservation 
funding sources to incentivize the protection of historic resources such as the 
California Mills Act Property Tax Abatement Program and Federal Historic 
Preservation Tax Incentives Program.  
Policy CD-P3.7 
Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives to full 
demolition on how to preserve a historic building as part of any planning 
application and implement methods of preservation unless health and safety 
requirements cannot be met.  
ACTIONS  
Action CD-A3.1 
Historic Building Survey. Establish and maintain an inventory of architecturally, 
culturally, and historically significant structures and sites. Proactively maintain 
an up-to-date historic resources inventory by seeking funding opportunities to 
update the historic survey.  
Action CD-A3.2 
Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update and maintain the CityБ─≥s Historic 
Preservation Ordinance to be consistent with State and Federal standards and 
guidelines, and to support local historic preservation objectives.  
Action CD-A3.3 
Preservation Incentives. Create incentives to preserve historic and cultural 
resources such as reducing parking requirements, allowing a flexible use, or 
establishing a transfer of development rights program.  
Action CD-A3.4 
Historic Design Standards. Create objective design standards for development 
within historic districts or adjacent to historic structures and/or culturally 
important sites to maintain the historic character of these resources.  
CITY IMAGE 
 
Develop and maintain an attractive urban fabric that reflects San MateoБ─≥s 
unique character.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P4.1 
Community Cohesion. Design new private development, streets, and public 
spaces to enhance social connection by providing street-fronting uses and 
community spaces, as appropriate.  
Policy CD-P4.2 
Gateways.  Develop gateways that visually announce key entrances to San 
Mateo by creating distinctive architectural or landscape features at the 
following locations: 
a. 
Entrances to the Downtown;   
b. 
North and south ends of El Camino Real (SR 82);  
c. 
US 101 and Third Avenue;  
48 of 317

--- page 49 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
Page CD-4 
d. 
US 101 and Hillsdale Boulevard;  
e. 
Mariner's Island Boulevard and J. Hart Clinton Drive at the border of 
Foster City; and  
f. 
State Route 92 off-ramps at El Camino Real.  
Policy CD-P4.3 
Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design features and 
elements into the design of new buildings.  
Policy CD-P4.4 
El Camino Real (SR 82). Encourage improvements to the public right-of-way and 
private properties along El Camino Real that will make the corridor safer and 
more attractive for all users, such as redesigned transit stops, improved 
sidewalks, street trees and other pedestrian amenities, and updated/improved 
building facades.  Incorporate the Guiding Principles of the Grand Boulevard 
Initiative into future plans for the El Camino Real corridor in San Mateo.  
Policy CD-P4.5 
Railroad Corridor.  Improve the railroad corridor to create a positive City image 
and an urban environment that supports a multimodal transportation network.  
Policy CD-P4.6 
Signage.  Maintain signage controls that appropriately regulate the design, size, 
type, illumination and quantity of signs visible from corridors.  
Policy CD-P4.7 
Public Open Space Design. Seek opportunities to establish public open spaces in 
new developments and new public buildings, and promote innovative and 
creative designs to create exceptional and unique spaces.  
Policy CD-P4.8 
Public Art. Continue to require public art as part of new development. Support 
public art as a resource that enhances the quality of life for individuals living in, 
working in, and visiting the City; improves the quality of the urban environment; 
and increases property values.  
Policy CD-P4.9 
Inclusive Outreach.  Involve the community in the CityБ─≥s efforts to develop and 
maintain an attractive urban fabric that reflects San MateoБ─≥s unique character. 
Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage broad representation 
and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved 
communities.  
RESIDENTIAL 
 
Maintain and enhance the existing character and physical quality of 
residential neighborhoods through the appropriate design of new 
development.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P5.1 
Building Mass and Scale.  Encourage new residential developments to be 
compatible with the scale of the surrounding neighboring.  
49 of 317

--- page 50 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
 
Page CD-5 
Policy CD-P5.2 
Low-Density Residential Development.  Require new homes in the Low and 
Very Low residential designations, including single-family dwellings, duplexes, 
triplexes, four-plexes, and ADUs to be consistent with objective design 
standards as described in the CityБ─≥s Residential Design Standards.  
Policy CD-P5.3 
Single-Family Design.  Encourage new single-family dwellings and expansions of 
existing single-family dwellings that address the preservation and enhancement 
of neighborhood character through building scale, materials, architectural style 
and details, and privacy.  
Policy CD-P5.4 
Multi-Family Design.  Ensure that the architectural design of new multi-family 
developments enhances the neighborhood character by providing appropriate 
building and pedestrian scale elements, high quality materials and construction, 
open space and resident amenities.  
Policy CD-P5.5 
Multi-Family Parking.  Require new multi-family developments to design and 
site parking to avoid blank, ground floor walls and to screen views of parking 
from the street.  
Policy CD-P5.6 
Multi-Family Open Space.  Require that a portion of required open space for 
new multi-family projects be useable for passive or active recreation.  
ACTIONS 
Action CD-A5.1 
Objective Design Standards. Develop and adopt objective design standards that 
clearly outline the CityБ─≥s design expectations for new single-family and multi-
family projects.  
Action CD-A5.2 
Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Dwelling Units Design. Continue to 
monitor State law and update the CityБ─≥s Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance to 
ensure that new ADUs and JADUs are regulated in accordance with State law 
requirements while also meeting community needs and expectations.  
MIXED-USE AND COMMERCIAL AREAS 
 
Improve the visual character, livability, and vitality of mixed -use and 
commercial areas.  
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P6.1 
Objective Design Standards. Provide clear, objective, and quantifiable design 
standards to guide new mixed-use and commercial development.  
Policy CD-P6.2 
Pedestrian Oriented Design.  Cultivate pedestrian activity in commercial and 
mixed-use areas by providing adequate sidewalk widths, locating windows along 
ground floor street facades, trees and awnings, and human scale construction 
materials and features.  
50 of 317

--- page 51 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
Page CD-6 
Policy CD-P6.3 
Respect Existing Scale.  Encourage new mixed-use and commercial 
development to respect the scale of surrounding buildings by providing breaks 
in the building face at spacings common to buildings in the area and by stepping 
back upper floors.  
Policy CD-P6.4 
Orient Buildings Toward the Street.  Encourage commercial development to be 
located at the street in retail areas to encourage pedestrian activity and an 
active streetscape.   
Policy CD-P6.5 
Commercial Parking. Encourage commercial projects to provide required 
parking underground to minimize the amount of ground floor area dedicated to 
parking.  When parking is located at grade, it should be located towards the side 
and rear of parcels.  
Policy CD-P6.6 
Commercial Transitions.  Encourage new commercial development or 
redevelopment to provide an appropriate transition to adjacent neighborhoods.  
Policy CD-P6.7 
Outdoor Display and Eating.  Support parklets, the outdoor display of goods at 
retail uses, and restaurant seating areas to add visual interest and activity to 
commercial and mixed-use areas.  
ACTION 
Action CD-A6.1 
Objective Design Standards. Develop and adopt objective design Standards for 
new mixed-use and commercial development to provide a clear understanding 
of the CityБ─≥s expectation for new project design, including pedestrian-friendly 
design.  
AREA SPECIFIC DESIGN POLICIES 
[Note: Additional design policies and actions for specific areas around the City will be developed during 
outreach effort based on community and decisionmaker input.] 
NORTH CENTRAL 
Policy CD-P6.8 
Amphlett Boulevard.  Require new buildings and additions to be compatible 
with adjoining residential areas including adequate screening and landscaping.   
SHOREVIEW 
Policy CD-P6.9 
US 101 Frontage.  Encourage upgrading of the appearance of US 101 and 
properties adjacent to the freeway through design treatment, screening and 
right-of-way landscaping.  
Policy CD-P6.10 
Marina Lagoon Properties. Development of private parcels having frontage on 
Marina Lagoon should retain public access, providing a connection between 
Shoreline Park and Bayside/Joinville Park.  
 
51 of 317

--- page 52 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O M M U N I T Y  D E S I G N  A N D  H I S T O R I C  R E S O U R C E S  E L E M E N T  
 
Page CD-7 
MARINA LAGOON / BRIDGEPOINTE 
Policy CD-P6.11 
Marina Plaza Center.  Retain the Marina Plaza neighborhood retail center and 
allow limited expansion of low scale commercial uses.  
NORTHWEST HEIGHTS 
[NOTE: POLICIES WILL BE DEVELOPED DURING OUTREACH EFFORT] 
HAYWARD PARK / SUNNYBRAE  
[NOTE: POLICIES WILL BE DEVELOPED DURING OUTREACH EFFORT] 
BERESFORD PARK 
Policy CD-P6.12 
25th Avenue Shopping Center.  Continue to support ground floor retail uses and 
improvements the physical and aesthetic nature of the 25th Avenue commercial 
district. New buildings or remodels should be compatible with existing buildings 
while incorporating improved signage and high quality design and construction. 
Policy CD-P6.13 
Peninsula Golf and Country Club.  Support the retention of the existing club and 
recreation use.  If the site is redeveloped, residential development that is 
compatible with adjacent uses in terms of density and intensity should be 
encouraged.   
HILLSDALE / SUGARLOAF 
Policy CD-P6.14 
San Mateo County Hospital. Should all or a portion of the San Mateo County 
Hospital redevelop, a mixed residential development is appropriate with 
stepped density compatible with adjacent residential areas, ranging from single-
family adjacent to single family residences to medium density where adequately 
buffered.  
WESTERN HILLS 
Policy CD-P6.15 
San Mateo County Facilities Site.  Require a Master Plan prior to any future 
development of the site. Encourage clustered development to maximize open 
space and protect hillsides, major vegetation, natural topography and views 
from surrounding areas.    
 
52 of 317

--- page 53 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey 1989.
HISTORIC
RESOURCES
FIGURE CD-1
GENERAL PLAN
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND
HISTORIC RESOURCES
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
HISTORIC DISTRICT
Downtown San Mateo Historic District
Glazenwood Historic District
HISTORIC RESOURCES
(1) National Register - Individually Listed
(3) National Register - Individually Eligible
(3/3D) National Register - Individually Eligible
AND/OR as Contributor to District
(3D) National Register - Eligible as Contributor to
District
(4) National Register - May be Individually
Eligible with Additional Research
(4, 5) National Register - May be Individually
Eligible with Additional Research. And Local
Preservation - Individually Listed OR Individually
Eligible OR Eligible as Contributor to District
(5) Local Preservation - Individually Listed OR
Individually Eligible OR Eligible as Contributor to
District
(5A) California Register/Landmark - Individually
Listed OR Individually Eligible OR Eligible as
Contributor to District
For planning purposes only.
53 of 317

--- page 54 ---
Page COS-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
6. 
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS & RECREATION 
ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 
 
Protect and enhance the City's natural resource areas that provide plant 
and animal habitat and benefit human and ecological health and 
resilience.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P1.1 
Sensitive Natural Communities. Protect riparian habitat and other sensitive 
natural communities.  
Policy COS-P1.2 
Interjurisdiction Coordination.  Coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions and 
regional, State, and federal agencies to protect critical wildlife habitat, including 
by participating in comprehensive habitat management programs.  
Policy COS-P1.3 
Site Evaluations.  Require independent professional evaluation of sites for any 
public or private development located within known or potential habitat of 
species designated by State and federal agencies as rare, threatened, or 
endangered.  
The site evaluation shall determine the presence/absence of these special-
status plant and animal species on the site. The surveys associated with the 
evaluation shall be conducted for proper identification of the species. The 
evaluation shall consider the potential for significant impacts on special-status 
plant and animal species and shall include feasible mitigation measures to 
mitigate such impacts to the satisfaction of the City and appropriate 
governmental agencies (e.g., U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and California 
Department of Fish and Game). The City shall require adequate mitigation 
measures for ensuring the protection of sensitive resources and achieving Б─°no 
net lossБ─² of sensitive habitat acreage, values, and functions.  
In lieu of the site evaluation, presence of special status plant and animal species 
may be assumed and the City may require mitigation requiring Б─°no net lossБ─² 
mitigation of sensitive habitat acreage may be applied to the satisfaction of the 
City and appropriate governmental agencies.  
Policy COS-P1.4 
Development Near Wetlands or Water. Restrict or modify proposed 
development in areas that contain wetlands or waters to ensure the continued 
54 of 317

--- page 55 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-2 
health and survival of special-status species and sensitive habitat areas.  
Development projects shall be designed to avoid impacts on sensitive resources, 
or to adequately mitigate impacts by providing on-site or off-site replacement at 
a higher ratio.  Project design modification shall include adequate avoidance 
measures such as the use of setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage 
control features, or other measures to ensure that no net loss of wetland 
acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat value occurs. This may 
include the use of setbacks, buffers, and water quality, drainage control 
features, or other measures to maintain existing habitat and hydrologic 
functions of retained wetlands and waters of the US.   
Policy COS-P1.5 
Wetland Development Mitigation.  Avoid wetlands development where 
feasible (as defined under State CEQA Guidelines Section 15364).  When an 
applicant has demonstrated that no net loss of wetlands would occur and that 
on-site restoration is not feasible, provide replacement habitat on-site through 
restoration and/or habitat creation that would ensure no net loss of wetland 
acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat value. Off-site wetland 
mitigation preferably will consist of the same habitat type as the wetland area 
that would be lost.  
1. Restricting or modifying proposed development in areas that 
contain wetlands or waters of the U.S., as defined by U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers delineations, as necessary to ensure the 
continued health and survival of special-status species and sensitive 
habitat areas.  Development projects shall be designed to avoid 
impacts on sensitive resources, or to adequately mitigate impacts 
by providing on-site replacement or (as a lowest priority) off-site 
replacement at a higher ratio.  Modification in project design shall 
include adequate avoidance measures to ensure that no net loss of 
wetland acreage, function, water quality protection, and habitat 
value occurs.  This may include the use of setbacks, buffers, and 
water quality, drainage control features, or other measures to 
maintain existing habitat and hydrologic functions of retained 
wetlands and waters of the U.S. 
2. Designing public access to avoid or minimize disturbance to 
sensitive resources, including necessary setback/buffer areas, while 
facilitating public use, enjoyment, and appreciation of wetlands. 
3. Avoiding wetlands development where feasible (as defined under 
State CEQA Guidelines Section 15364).  Where complete avoidance 
of jurisdictional wetlands is not feasible (as defined under State 
CEQA Guidelines Section 15364), require provision of replacement 
habitat on-site through restoration and/or habitat creation that 
would ensure no net loss of wetland acreage, function, water 
55 of 317

--- page 56 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-3 
quality protection, and habitat value. Allow restoration of wetlands 
off-site only when an applicant has demonstrated that no net loss of 
wetlands would occur and that on-site restoration is not feasible.  
Off-site wetland mitigation preferably will consist of the same 
habitat type as the wetland area that would be lost.  
Policy COS-P1.6 
Bird Island. Manage Bird Island as a bird nesting and breeding site.  
ACTION  
Action COS-A1.1 
Environmental Review. Review the environmental documents for projects 
located adjacent to City boundaries regarding impacts and mitigations to 
species and habitat.  
ACCESS TO NATURE 
 
Ensure that current and future generations will enjoy the environmental, 
social, health, and economic benefits derived from access to our urban 
forest, parks and open spaces.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P2.1 
Sustainable Access. Continue to design and manage public access to the CityБ─≥s 
natural resources in a way that promotes public health and connection to 
nature while avoiding or minimizing disturbance and sustaining these resources 
into the future.  
Policy COS-P2.2 
Equitable Conservation. Prioritize preservation, restoration, and enhancement 
of natural landscapes in or near underserved communities for their role in 
improving air quality and community health.  
Policy COS-P2.3 
Shoreline Interpretive Opportunities. Promote public awareness of the value 
and care of the Shoreline for habitat values, water quality, and safety through 
on-site interpretive programs or outdoor displays which are in character with 
the adjacent open spaces.  
Policy COS-P2.4 
Lagoon and Shoreline Public Access.  Require public access from new 
developments adjacent to the Lagoon and Shoreline as a condition of approval.  
Policy COS-P2.5 
Sugarloaf Mountain Management.  Improve, maintain, and manage the natural 
qualities and habitat of Sugarloaf Mountain and Laurelwood Park, including 
management of public access, study, recreation, and wildland fire hazards. 
Policy COS-P2.6 
Sugarloaf Mountain Interpretive Opportunities. Promote public awareness of 
the value and care of Sugarloaf Mountain through on-site interpretive programs 
or displays which are in character with the open space, consistent with the 
adopted management plan.  
56 of 317

--- page 57 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-4 
ACTION 
Action COS-A2.1 
Improvements to Bayfront Nature Area. Review plans for the remaining 
uncompleted portions of Shoreline Park, including the Bayfront Nature Area, 
Tidelands Park, San Mateo Creek improvements east of Highway 101, Bay 
Marshes and J. Hart Clinton Drive to ensure they reflect current environmental 
and programmatic needs.   
WATER QUALITY, CREEKS, AND RIPARIAN AREAS 
 
Protect and improve San MateoБ─≥s creeks as valuable habitat, green 
infrastructure, and components of human and environmental health.   
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P3.1 
Low Impact Development. Minimize stormwater runoff and pollution by 
encouraging low-impact design (LID) features, such as pervious parking surfaces, 
bioswales, and filter strips in new development.  
Policy COS-P3.2 
Water Quality Standards. Manage City creeks, channels, and the Marina 
Lagoon, to meet applicable state and federal water quality standards and 
sustain aquatic/wildlife habitat appropriate to the water flow.  
Policy COS-P3.3 
Aesthetic and Habitat Values - Public Creeks. Preserve and enhance the 
aesthetic and habitat values of creeks, such as San Mateo, Laurel, and Beresford 
creeks, and other City-owned channels in all activities affecting these creeks, 
including revegetation, erosion control, and adequate setbacks for structures.  
Policy COS-P3.4 
Aesthetic and Habitat Values Б─⌠ Private Creeks. Encourage preservation and 
enhance the aesthetic and habitat values of privately owned sections of all 
other creeks and channels, shown in Figure C/OS-1.  
Policy COS-P3.5 
Hydrologic Impacts. Ensure that improvements to creeks and other waterways 
do not cause adverse hydrologic impacts or significantly increase the volume or 
velocity of flow of the subject creek.  
Policy COS-P3.6 
New Creekside Development Requirements. Require that new creekside 
development protect and improve setbacks, banks, and waterways adjacent to 
the development project in order to increase flood protection and enhance 
riparian vegetation and water quality. 
Policy COS-P3.7 
Groundwater Recharge in Open Spaces. Protect existing open spaces, natural 
habitat, floodplains, and wetland areas that serve as groundwater recharge 
areas.  
Policy COS-P3.8 
Groundwater Recharge in Urban Areas. Protect groundwater recharge and 
groundwater quality when considering new development projects.  
57 of 317

--- page 58 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-5 
Policy COS-P3.9 
Preservation of Beneficial Uses. Manage Marina Lagoon to balance and 
enhance its beneficial uses. Manage other water bodies to allow for limited 
nearby recreation, such as picnicking, hiking, boating, sightseeing, and 
interpretive study.   
ACTIONS 
Action COS-A3.1 
Stormwater Treatment. Continue to participate in the San Mateo Countywide 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program to ensure compliance with the 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit to prevent 
water pollution from point and non-point sources.  
Action COS-A3.2 
Groundwater Recharge Area Mapping. Identify, map, and disseminate 
information on groundwater recharge areas, to the extent feasible, and provide 
educational materials and resource information on ways of reducing and 
limiting the development of non-pervious surfaces in those areas.  
Action COS-A3.3 
Incentives for Low Impact Development. Develop and implement incentives to 
encourage applicants to include low-impact design features in new 
development.  
AIR QUALITY 
 
All San Mateo residents should have the ability to breathe safe, clean air.   
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P4.1 
Air Quality Thresholds. Use thresholds of significance that match or are more 
stringent than the air quality thresholds of significance identified in the current 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) Air Quality Guidelines 
when evaluating air quality impacts of projects.  
Policy COS-P4.2 
Health Risk Assessment. Require a cumulative health risk assessment, including 
consideration of truck traffic impacts, when a project potentially affects 
sensitive receptors in disadvantaged communities, and require appropriate 
mitigation based on the findings of the assessment.  
Policy COS-P4.3 
Activity Near Sensitive Receptors. Comply with State regulations that prohibit 
nonessential idling of vehicles near sensitive receptors such as the requirements 
outlined in Title 13 CCR 9 Sections 2449, article 4.8, and Title 13 CCR 10 Sections 
2480 and 2485 of the California Code of Regulations.   
Policy COS-P4.4 
Odors. When proposed development generating odors is proposed near 
residences or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be 
provided (based on recommendations and requirements of the California Air 
Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions 
shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
58 of 317

--- page 59 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-6 
Potential mitigation associated with this policy requirement will be coordinated 
with any required permit conditions from BAAQMD.  
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of odors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.  
Policy COS-P4.5 
Toxic Air Contaminants. Require that when new development that would be a 
source of toxic air contaminants (TACs) is proposed near residences or sensitive 
receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.  
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing 
sources of TACs, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on 
recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to the source to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.  
Policy COS-P4.6 
Air Quality Construction Impacts. Require new construction activities to 
mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities in 
compliance with BAAQMDБ─≥s regulations and guidelines on construction activity 
impacts. 
Policy COS-P4.7 
Truck Facilities. Require new development to provide adequate truck parking, 
loading space, and generators for refrigerated trucks to prevent idling.  
ACTIONS 
Action COS-A4.1 
Air Quality Improvement. Support and partner with Bay Area Air Quality 
Management District (BAAQMD) in monitoring, education, permitting, 
enforcement, grants programs, or other efforts to improve air quality issues and 
health outcomes for all.  
Action COS-A4.2 
Clean Air Refuges. Develop and implement a plan to provide clean air refuges 
during times when outdoor air quality is unhealthy. Explore the feasibility of 
participating in State grant programs to fund retrofits of ventilation systems at 
public buildings to provide refuge for residents during periods of unhealthy air 
quality caused by excessive smoke from wildfires.  
 
 
59 of 317

--- page 60 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-7 
HILLSIDES 
 
Minimize the impact of hillside development on the natural environment 
and public safety.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P5.1 
Hillside Development Principles.  Require hillside development to minimize 
impacts by preserving the existing topography, limiting cuts and fills, and 
clustering development. Limit development on steep hillsides with a 30 percent 
or higher slope.  
Policy COS-P5.2 
Minimal Impacts. Require new development to preserve natural topographic 
forms and to minimize adverse impacts on vegetation, water, soil stability, and 
wildlife resources.  
ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES AND TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES 
 
Protect archaeological resources and resources that are culturally 
significant to Native American tribes and acknowledge San MateoБ─≥s past 
as indigenous land.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P6.1 
Archaeological Resource Protection. Preserve, to the maximum extent feasible, 
archaeological sites with significant cultural, historical, or sociological merit for 
present-day residents or Native American tribes.  
Policy COS-P6.2 
Tribal Cultural Resources. Preserve areas which have identifiable and important 
tribal cultural resources and comply with appropriate State and federal 
standards to evaluate and mitigate impacts to cultural resources, including 
tribal, historic, archaeological, and paleontological resources.  
Policy COS-P6.3 
Tribal Consultation. Consult with Native American representatives, including 
through early coordination, to identify locations of importance to Native 
Americans, including archaeological sites, sacred sites, traditional cultural 
properties, and other types of tribal cultural resources. Respect tribal concerns 
if a tribe has a religious prohibition against revealing information about specific 
practices or locations.   
Policy COS-P6.4 
Potential Archaeological Impacts. Consistent with CEQA, prior to construction, 
consult the California Archaeological Inventory Northwest Information Center 
for project-specific reviews to evaluate the potential for impact on 
archaeological resources and determine whether or not further study is 
warranted.  
60 of 317

--- page 61 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-8 
Policy COS-P6.5 
On-Site Mitigation. If development could affect a tribal cultural resource or 
archaeological resource, require the developer to contact an appropriate tribal 
representative to train construction workers on appropriate avoidance and 
minimization measures, requirements for confidentiality and culturally 
appropriate treatment, other applicable regulations, and consequences of 
violating State laws and regulations.  
ACTION 
Action COS-A6.1 
Pre-Construction Investigations. Consistent with CEQA, establish specific 
procedures for pre-construction investigation of high and medium sensitivity 
sites identified in the 1983 Chavez investigation, unless superseded by more 
recent investigations, in order to assist property owners, developers, and the 
City in making decisions when archaeological resources may be affected.  
PARKS AND RECREATION   
 
Provide a comprehensive system of park and recreation programs and 
facilities based on the needs of the City's residents to encourage healthy 
lifestyles and ensure access for all.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P7.1 
Active and Healthy Lifestyles.   Maintain and expand programs that promote 
active and healthy lifestyles and incorporate health and wellness practices into 
everyday life, such as healthy eating and nutrition education programs, water 
safety and swim programs, and youth fitness activities.  
Policy COS-P7.2 
Creating Community. Cultivate opportunities to come together as a community, 
celebrate our heritage, cultures and milestones, and have social supports 
available, which are key to creating a sense of community and building 
community resilience.  
Policy COS-P7.3 
Creative Outlets.  Provide skill development and performance opportunities 
within each of the major art forms with an emphasis on promoting lifelong 
enjoyment to nurture creative discovery. 
Policy COS-P7.4 
Enrichment and Lifelong Learning. Provide a wide array of enriching and 
lifelong learning opportunities that provide mental stimulation, self-
improvement, exploration, educational opportunities, and skills that can be 
applied at home or business.  
Policy COS-P7.5 
Parks as Learning Environments. Enhance the role of parks as learning 
environments by providing interpretive opportunities to community 
organizations and at City-operated facilities to increase public awareness of 
their unique cultural, historical, and environmental characteristics.   
61 of 317

--- page 62 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-9 
Policy COS-P7.6 
Child and Youth Development.  Provide pre-school through teenage youth with 
a variety of experiences that nurture individuality, spark imagination, encourage 
active recreation, and build the skills needed to ensure success in the next stage 
of development.  
Policy COS-P7.7 
Aging Adults. Promote policies, programs, services and public infrastructure 
improvements through either direct City provision or through collaborative 
partnerships with other agencies to insure that older adults can age in place 
while feeling valued and supported.  
Policy COS-P7.8 
Community-Led Activity Initiatives. Work with local community groups and San 
Mateo County Health to initiate walking, hiking, cycling, and other recreation 
clubs and activities to increase participation, safety, and social cohesion.  
Policy COS-P7.9 
Conservation and Nature Awareness. Increase public awareness of the 
importance of and appreciation for conservation opportunities and the value of 
connecting children to nature with enhanced programs and public outreach.  
Policy COS-P7.10 
Central Park. Promote Central ParkБ─≥s character as the CityБ─≥s signature park and 
community gathering pace.  
ACTION 
Action COS-A7.1 
Coordination with Education Providers. Coordinate with other education 
providers, such as the College of San Mateo and the Public Library, to identify 
appropriate service targets and provide activities within those identified targets.  
 
Provide equitable and convenient access to parks, recreational programs, 
and facilities so that all residents experience the benefits of parks and 
open space on their physical and mental health.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P8.1 
Accessible Facilities. Continue to provide general park facilities that are free and 
open to the public, except for reservations of specific facilities by groups or 
individuals, or for facilities that traditionally charge fees (e.g., Golf Course, 
Marina Lagoon).  
Policy COS-P8.2 
Recreation Fee Assistance. Continue to provide program fee assistance to 
qualifying  families and older adults consistent with the Park and Recreation 
Commission endorsed administrative policy for fee assistance.  
ACTIONS 
Action COS-A8.1 
Customer Service. Adopt policies and practices that create satisfied customers 
and develop life-long relationships with our users.  
62 of 317

--- page 63 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-10 
Action COS-A8.2 
Inclusion and Accessibility. Create policies, programs and facility designs that 
are inclusive, respectful, and supportive for all members of the community. 
Expand cultural awareness and appreciation through culturally relevant 
programs and special events.  
Action COS-A8.3 
Resident Input. Solicit a broad spectrum of resident input for major park 
improvements or park master plans. Conduct multi-lingual and culturally 
sensitive outreach to ensure all voices are included in park planning efforts and 
that San MateoБ─≥s parks reflect the diversity of the community.  
Action COS-A8.4 
Public Information. Communicate through diverse channels and in multiple 
languages the benefits and value park and recreation services bring in making 
San Mateo a more livable, economically viable, and socially responsible 
community.   
Action COS-A8.5 
Technology Innovation. Identify and incorporate technology innovations as an 
ongoing strategy to better serve the public, e.g. virtual trail maps, digitalized 
park signage, virtual programming, etc.  
 
Provide the appropriate mix of parks and facilities that balances the 
needs of active and passive facilities, allows formal and informal uses, is 
accessible for all residents, and meets existing and future recreation 
needs.   
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P9.1 
Facility Standards.  Use the Park and Recreation Facility Standards to assess the 
adequacy of existing facilities; to design, develop and redevelop sites, and to 
acquire or accept new sites.   
Policy COS-P9.2 
Acreage Standards. Acquire or accept for dedication two acres of neighborhood 
and community parks per 1,000 residents. 
Policy COS-P9.3 
Walkable Parks and Amenities. Provide accessible public park or other 
recreational opportunities that are within approximately 1/3 of a mile of 
residents without travel over significant barriers. Ideally, one or more of the 
following amenities should be available: multi-purpose turf area, children's play 
area with pre-school and youth apparatus, seating areas, picnic areas, a multi-
use court, and an opportunity for passive enjoyment of an aesthetic landscaped 
space.  
Policy COS-P9.4 
Active Use Facilities. Provide sufficient active use facilities to support current 
needs and future trends including but not limited to  multi-use athletic turf 
areas; court games; action sports, e.g. biking; ; and a system of pedestrian and 
bike trails that will provide interconnectivity between parks.  
63 of 317

--- page 64 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-11 
Policy COS-P9.5 
Master Planning.  Continue to prepare and maintain master plans for all 
undeveloped parks and for those parks over two acres in size prior to 
development or major redevelopment. Allow interim uses if such uses will not 
adversely impact or limit potential permanent uses.  
Policy COS-P9.6 
Rehabilitation or Purchase of School Sites.  Consider contributions towards 
rehabilitation or the purchase of recreational facilities on surplus school sites 
based upon an evaluation of their value as community recreation resources.   
ACTIONS 
Action COS-A9.1 
Regional Facilities. Explore the feasibility of developing regional recreational 
and sports complexes with neighboring cities.  
Action COS-A9.2 
Bay Meadows Community Park.  Complete the master planning for Bay 
Meadows Community Park to reflect its value as a city-wide asset that can 
address one or more identified facility deficiencies.  
 
Plan and develop well-designed parks and recreation facilities compatible 
with surrounding uses that promote accessibility, efficient use, and 
practical maintenance.  
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P10.1 
Rehabilitation Priorities.  Prioritize parks and recreation facilities projects that 
rehabilitate facilities that have become or will become costly to maintain, only 
marginally usable, meet the highest community needs, provide significant 
benefits in relation to costs or are located in equity priority communities.  
Policy COS-P10.2 
Park Preservation.  Preserve existing parklands, open spaces, and the golf 
course for open space and recreational use.  
Policy COS-P10.3 
Shared Use. Encourage schools to make their facilities available for City and 
community-sponsored activities to the greatest extent possible, and encourage 
school agencies to adopt reasonable user fees and operating practices that 
allow improved community access.  
Policy COS-P10.4 
Optimum Cost-Effectiveness. Maintain and upgrade park infrastructure to 
optimize its cost effectiveness and value in meeting community recreation 
needs.  
Policy COS-P10.5 
Sustainability Practices. Operate park and recreation facilities using 
environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable management and 
operating practices that proactively reverse the impacts of climate change or 
better prepare for its effects.  
Policy COS-P10.6 
Maintenance Standards. Maintain the park system by a set of maintenance 
standards that reflects community values; maintains, promotes, and optimizes 
64 of 317

--- page 65 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N ,  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
Page COS-12 
positive use; reduces wildfire risk; and ensures that equipment and facilities are 
maintained in a safe condition.  
Policy COS-P10.7 
Environmentally-Sound Park Operations. Utilize native and drought tolerant 
plant species, efficient irrigation systems, reclaimed water, and sustainable 
management practices. Expand efforts to improve recycling opportunities in all 
parks and implement trash reduction measures, especially during large 
community events.  
Policy COS-P10.8 
San Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation. Continue to support the San 
Mateo City Parks and Recreation Foundation efforts to expand non-city 
resource opportunities, such as funding and volunteers, in support of park 
development, improvements, and maintenance.  
ACTIONS 
Action COS-A10.1 
Recreation Facility Infrastructure. Implement the highest priority 
improvements identified from the Recreation Facilities Master Plan with special 
focus on improvements that address safety and accessibility, geographic equity, 
child care, aquatics and multi-generational programming.   
Action COS-A10.2 
Design Principles and Park Image.  Establish design principles for all new or 
renovated parks to maximize productivity, efficiency and community value, 
including adding the potential for flexible use for emergency shelters and 
disaster response. Develop an image plan which includes the effective use of 
signage, color, lighting and plant material which meets both aesthetic and 
maintenance needs.  
Action COS-A10.3 
Maximized Park Assets. Review and update the Asset Management Plan to 
identify the highest and best use of undeveloped parcels or underutilized areas 
within existing parks to ensure they are best positioned to meet current and 
future needs.  
Action COS-A10.4 
Strategic Community Partnerships. Develop and maintain positive partnership 
relations with schools, businesses, community groups, and civic organizations 
for park access, maintenance, and enhancement to maximize resources, 
eliminate duplication of effort, and reach common goals.  
Action COS-A10.5 
Neighborhood-Supported Projects.  Increase efforts to seek neighborhood 
support for enhancement and beautification projects as the CityБ─≥s fiscal 
resources become constrained.  
 
 
65 of 317

--- page 66 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  C O N S E R V A T I O N  O P E N  S P A C E ,  P A R K S  &  R E C R E A T I O N  E L E M E N T  
 
Page COS-13 
 
Provide stable and adequate operational and capital funding for the parks 
and recreation system.   
POLICIES 
Policy COS-P11.1 
Program Fees and Cost Recovery. Maintain and periodically update program 
fees to recover costs.  
Policy COS-P11.2 
Maintenance and Operating Costs. Consider long-term maintenance and 
operating costs in acquisition, development, and redevelopment decisions.  
Policy COS-P11.3 
Parks and Facilities in Major Projects. Factor park and facility maintenance and 
operating costs into park master plans or major facility upgrades.  
Policy COS-P11.4 
Development Fees. Assess appropriate fees and taxes to ensure that new 
development contributes proportional funding to compensate for its impacts on 
recreation facilities and services.  
Policy COS-P11.5 
Cooperative Service Delivery. Utilize opportunities for cooperative acquisition, 
development, operation, and programming with private organizations or other 
public agencies that will provide more effective or efficient service delivery.   
66 of 317

--- page 67 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Keho
e Ave
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
BE
LM
ON
T C
RE
EK
S
A
N
M
A
T
E
O
C
R
E
E
K
SANCHEZ CREEK
PO
LH
EM
US
CR
EE
K
M
A
RI
N
A
L
A
G
O
O
N
SAN MATEO CREEK
LAUREL CREEK
Source: USGS and City of San Mateo Public Works.
WATERWAYS
FIGURE C/OS-1
GENERAL PLAN
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, 
PARKS AND RECREATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
Surface Waterways
Underground Waterways
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
For planning purposes only.
67 of 317

--- page 68 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37th Ave
S B St
D
e
A
nz
a
Bl
v
d
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Grant St
R
o
b
e
rta
D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
S
h
o
review Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
aple St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Haciend
a
St
N
B St
Gle
n
do
r
a D
r
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
Cam
p
u
s
Dr
Poplar
Creek Golf
Course
Harborview
Tidelands
(undeveloped)
Mariners
Island Park
Parkside
Aquatic Park
Washington
Playground
Concar
Playground
Sunnybrae Playground
Hayward
Square
Park
Gateway Park
Bay
Tree
Park
DeAnza
Historical
Area
lndian
Springs
Park
West
Hillsdale
Park
East
Hillsdale
Park
Trinta
Park
Fiesta
Meadows
Park
Los Prados
Park
Casanova Park
Laurie
Meadows
Park
Sugarloaf
Mountain
Timberland
Laguna Vista
Borel Park
Martin Luther
King Jr. Comm
Center & Park
Central Rec.
Center & Park
Shoreview
Rec. Center
& Park
Beresford Rec.
Center & Park
Senior Center
Lakeshore
Park
Bayside/Joinville Park
Laurelwood
Park
Bay Meadows
Community Park
Paddock
Park
Landing
Green Park
Ryder Park
Shoreline
Nature
Trail
Seal Point
Park
City Hall
Marina Library
Hillsdale
Branch
Library
Corporation
Yard
Japanese
Garden
Dale Ave
Open
Space
Bay Marshes
(accessible)
Saratoga
Square
Meadows
Square
Bay Meadows
Linear
Park
Coyote Point
County Park
Source: City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation
PUBLIC PARKS AND
RECREATION SITES
FIGURE C/OS-2
GENERAL PLAN
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE,
PARKS AND RECREATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Community Park and
Center
Mini-Park
Neighborhood Park
Open Space
Regional Park- County
Regional Park
For planning purposes only.
68 of 317

--- page 69 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
Ro
b
erta
D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Haciend
a
St
N
B St
Gle
n
dor
a
Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation
PUBLIC PARKS AND
RECREATION SITES
SERVICE RADIUS
FIGURE C/OS-3
GENERAL PLAN
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE,
PARKS AND RECREATION
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Undeveloped
Developed
Railroad
1/4 Mile Radius Mini-Parks
1/3 Mile Radius Neighborhood,
Community and Regional Parks
(open spaces and Coyote Pt. not
included)
For planning purposes only.
69 of 317

--- page 70 ---
GENERAL PLAN
Scenic Roadways
& Pedestrian Trails
FIGURE C/OS-4
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSERVATION & OPEN SPACE
SCALE:  1" = 0.5 Mile
June 2009
For planning purposes only.
Legend
Railroad
San Mateo City Limits
Scenic Roadway
Exisiting Trail, Path or Access
Potential Trail, Path or Access
70 of 317

--- page 71 ---
Page PS-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
7. 
PUBLIC SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
COMMUNITY SAFETY  
 
Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by maintaining 
adequate police, fire, and life safety protection.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P1.1 
Effective Police and Fire Services.  Maintain facilities, equipment, and personnel 
to provide an effective police force and fire protection to serve existing and 
future population and employment as identified in the Land Use Element.  
Policy PS-P1.2 
Police Station.  Provide Police Station facilities to meet the facility requirements 
through 2040.  Distribute, locate and design police support facilities (i.e. 
substations) as needed, to maximize effectiveness, use, accessibility for police 
personnel, and community interaction.  
Policy PS-P1.3 
Fire Stations. Coordinate with and support San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department (SMCFD) to maintain a high level of service by modernizing Fire 
Stations. Provide new stations and improvements to existing stations and 
training facilities to meet equipment, staffing, and training requirements, as 
well as Essential Services Building Requirements.  
Policy PS-P1.4 
Fire Inspections.  Coordinate with and support SMCFD to maintain fire 
inspection staffing levels to meet existing needs and the projected 2040 
population, employment and development, and inspections mandated by other 
governmental agencies, consistent with the CityБ─≥s Building Security Code.  
Policy PS-P1.5 
Maintenance and Replacement.  Coordinate with and support SMCFD to 
provide fire apparatus replacement and maintenance programs to achieve a 
high state of readiness.    
Policy PS-P1.6 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) Readiness.  Maintain the highest level of 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) readiness and response capabilities possible 
by encouraging inter-agency medical drills and exercises where hospital 
personnel work with emergency responders in the field and with Emergency 
Operation Centers and by encouraging citizens to become trained in basic 
medical triage and first aid through the Community Emergency Response Team 
(CERT).  
71 of 317

--- page 72 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
Page PS-2 
Policy PS-P1.7 
Equitable Code Enforcement. Use code enforcement to advance equity, 
meaningfully engage with citizens, and mitigate negative impacts on the health 
and safety of residents and businesses. (Environmental Justice)  
WATER SUPPLY 
 
Support maintaining access to a safe, sustainable and resilient supply of 
water for San Mateo.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P2.1 
Supplemental Water Sources. Support efforts by California Water Service, 
Estero Municipal Improvement District, and adjacent jurisdictions to develop 
supplemental and resilient water sources.  
Policy PS-P2.2 
Water Conservation. Support local, regional and statewide water conservation 
efforts.  
Policy PS-P2.3 
Water Efficiency. Support increased water efficiency in all new development 
and existing building stock.  
ACTIONS 
Action PS-A2.1 
Recycled Water. Explore the feasibility of working with California Water Service 
and/or Estero Municipal Improvement District to distribute recycled water to 
diversify the local water supply and support long-term water resilience.  
Action PS-A2.2 
Water Reduction Strategies.  Work with California Water Service, Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, Bay Area Water Supply Conservation Agency 
and other mid-peninsula cities to promote the water reduction strategies that 
are offered and to create an outreach program that will help inform residents 
and businesses of increased costs and the need for conservation efforts.   
SEWER AND STORM DRAINAGE 
 
Provide storm drainage, sewer and flood control facilities adequate to 
serve existing needs, projected population, and employment growth.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P3.1 
Sewer System.  Provide a sewer system which safely and efficiently conveys 
sewage to the wastewater treatment plant. Implement the Sewer System 
Management Plan to ensure proper maintenance, operations, and management 
of all parts of the wastewater collection system.  
Policy PS-P3.2 
Sewer Requirements for New Development.  Require new multi-family and 
commercial developments to evaluate the main sewer lines in the project 
72 of 317

--- page 73 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
 
Page PS-3 
vicinity which will be utilized by the new development and make any 
improvements necessary to convey the additional sewage flows.  
Policy PS-P3.3 
Sewer Overflow Reduction. Encourage efforts to help reduce sanitary sewer 
overflows which create a public health hazard for residents and compromises 
the water quality of the CityБ─≥s creeks and lagoons.  
Policy PS-P3.4 
Wastewater Treatment Plant.  Provide adequate wastewater treatment for the 
projected service area population, employment, and development.  
Policy PS-P3.5 
Inter-Agency Coordination for Wastewater Planning.  Coordinate future 
planning of the sewer collection and wastewater treatment plant with the other 
users of the systems, including the Estero Municipal Improvement District (City 
of Foster City), the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, Town of 
Hillsborough and City of Belmont.  
Policy PS-P3.6 
Coordinate Infrastructure Improvements. Combine, to the extent possible, 
upgrades and repairs to roadways with utility needs, infrastructure and 
broadband upgrades, and bicycle and pedestrian improvements.  
Policy PS-P3.7 
Creek Alteration.  Prohibit any reduction of creek channel capacity, 
impoundment or diversion of creek channel flows which would adversely affect 
adjacent properties or the degree of flooding.  Prevent erosion of creek banks.  
Policy PS-P3.8 
Stormwater Drainage System.  Implement the improvements identified in the 
City of San MateoБ─≥s seven watershed areas shown in Figure PSF-1 to improve 
and maintain drainage capacity adequate to convey water during a design storm 
event.  Include consideration of creek maintenance and an education and/or 
enforcement program to minimize illegal dumping of debris and chemicals.  
ACTIONS 
Action PS-A3.1 
City Infrastructure Studies and Master Plans.  Develop and update studies and 
master plans to assess infrastructure and to develop a Capital Improvement 
Program to make any necessary improvements.  
Action PS-A3.2 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Education.  Partner with other agencies and 
organizations, such as Flows to Bay, to help inform residents and businesses of 
ways to protect water quality and prevent stormwater pollution.  
Action PS-A3.3 
Dig Once. Establish a Б─°dig onceБ─² policy, coordinating utility and roadway 
construction to avoid digging up the right-of-way multiple times, to reduce costs 
and impacts on the public right of way. The policy shall apply to infrastructure, 
utilities, and broadband whenever possible.  
73 of 317

--- page 74 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
Page PS-4 
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES 
 
Maintain and develop public facilities, and ensure they are equitably  
available to all current and future members of the community.   
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P4.1 
Equitable Facilities. Ensure that all San Mateo residents and employees have 
access to well-maintained facilities that meet community service needs. 
Encourage the development of reasonably priced facilities and services for 
vulnerable communities, such as children, low-income households, and seniors, 
in a variety of settings.  
Policy PS-P4.2 
Joint Use. Encourage joint use and public-private partnerships where feasible.    
Policy PS-P4.3 
City Hall.  Upgrade or expand City Hall to increase office space and consider 
establishment of a Downtown facility or Civic Campus to meet City staffing 
needs through the year 2040.  
Policy PS-P4.4 
Library Resources and Services.  Continue to maintain a comprehensive 
collection of resources and services to help the community discover, enjoy, 
connect, and learn in an ever-changing world while offering quality library 
services and programs to a diverse community promoting literacy and lifelong 
learning.  
Policy PS-P4.5 
Library Service.  Maintain a materials budget, staffing, and service hours for the 
City's library system that are adequate to meet the community needs, provide 
current and adequate materials, and meet the continuing changes in 
information technology.  
Policy PS-P4.6 
Cultural and Entertainment Facilities.  Encourage the establishment of cultural 
and entertainment facilities in the downtown core and allow these types of uses 
to fulfill retail frontage requirements.   
Policy PS-P4.7 
Incentives for Public Facilities. Provide incentives such as density bonuses to 
residential and non-residential developers to encourage space for public 
facilities in new development.  
Policy PS-P4.8 
Corporation Yard.  Maintain corporation yard facilities with functions such as 
vehicle repair facilities, equipment and material storage, and administrative 
office space to support City operational needs.  
Policy PS-P4.9 
San Mateo County Events Center.  Promote the physical and aesthetic 
improvement of the San Mateo County Events Center.  
Policy PS-P4.10 
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community of potential public services and 
facilities improvements in their neighborhood. Use outreach and engagement 
74 of 317

--- page 75 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
 
Page PS-5 
methods that encourage broad representation and are culturally sensitive, 
particularly for historically underserved communities.  
CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND SCHOOLS 
 
Foster the healthy development and education of children of all abilities, 
incomes, and backgrounds.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P5.1 
School Assistance.  Support quality public education.  
Policy PS-P5.2 
School Site Reuse or Redevelopment.  Ensure that reuse or redevelopment of 
surplus public school sites is compatible with surrounding land uses.  At the time 
any school sites are declared surplus, establish appropriate residential densities 
to support community housing needs.  Give first priority and consideration to 
affordable housing and community recreation needs for reuse of school sites in 
accordance with the priorities in the Housing Element and Conservation and 
Open Space Element.  Where it is in the community's interests to retain public 
recreation facilities, consider allowing density transfers from the portion of the 
site retained in public recreation use, as a means of reducing the cost of 
retaining the recreation facilities and achieving the maximum amount of 
housing.   
Policy PS-P5.3 
Child Care Needs.  Support the provision of child care programs and facilities to 
meet the needs through 2040.  
Policy PS-P5.4 
Provision of Child Care. Encourage public and private agencies and employers 
to provide child care services and facilities.  
Policy PS-P5.5 
Child Care Centers at Public and Quasi Public Facilities. Retain existing centers 
and support programs at school sites and other quasi-institutional facilities, 
because of their suitability for such uses and convenient locations in residential 
neighborhoods.  
Policy PS-P5.6 
Child Care Centers in Residential Neighborhoods. Continue to allow child care 
centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards, and 
encourage them at employment centers.  
ACTIONS 
Action PS-A5.1 
School District Coordination. Maintain effective, collaborative relationships 
with all local school districts.  
Action PS-A5.2 
Child Care and New Construction.  Encourage new residential and non-
residential development to include space for child care by taking the following 
actions:  
75 of 317

--- page 76 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
Page PS-6 
 
Provide incentives for inclusion of space for a child care center in a new 
development.  
 
Promote child care to developers as an amenity favored by the City. 
 
Continue to implement the developer impact fee for funding child care 
facilities.  
HEALTHCARE AND SOCIAL SERVICES 
 
Support access for all residents to health care facilities, social services, 
and other important community health amenities.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P6.1 
San Mateo County Hospital.  Encourage the County to maintain County Hospital 
services in the City to provide access to medical care for all residents.  
Policy PS-P6.2 
Mills Health Center.  Support the Mills Health Center remaining in San Mateo, 
and encourage the continued provision and expansion of high-quality medical 
care services.  
Policy PS-P6.3 
Social Services.  Support the provision of the City's fair share of social services.   
Avoid the concentration of social services in any one neighborhood, and seek 
dispersal throughout the City. Encourage other cities to provide their fair share 
of social service facilities.  
Policy PS-P6.4 
Vulnerable Populations. Support local religious institutions in providing services 
and facilities for vulnerable populations.  
ACTION 
Action PS-A6.1 
Community Health Care Facilities. Evaluate options to support existing and 
potential community health care facilities in equity priority communities 
through a variety of mechanisms such as reduced permit fees, reduced impact 
fees, and tax incentives. (Environmental Justice) 
SOLID WASTE 
 
Reduce the generation of solid waste and increase the diversion of waste 
from landfills.  
POLICIES 
Policy PS-P7.1 
Solid Waste Disposal.  Continue to support waste reduction and diversion 
programs to reduce solid waste materials in landfill areas in accordance with 
State requirements.  
76 of 317

--- page 77 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  P U B L I C  S E R V I C E S  A N D  I N F R A S T R U C T U R E  E L E M E N T  
 
Page PS-7 
Policy PS-P7.2 
Recycling.  Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State 
requirements and require provisions for onsite recycling in new development.  
Policy PS-P7.3 
Composting. Maintain the curbside composting program and expand 
composting of organics in accordance with state requirements and as directed 
by the CityБ─≥s Climate Action Plan.  
ACTIONS 
Action PS-A7.1 
Waste Reduction. Reduce waste sent to landfills by San MateoБ─≥s residents, 
businesses and visitors as required by state law and San Mateo Municipal Code 
7.32-7.35 by mandating recycling and compost programs, setting aggressive 
waste reduction goals for all development, and implementing appropriate solid 
waste rates to recover cost of services provided.  Supportive actions for waste 
reduction are detailed in the Climate Action Plan.  
Action PS-A7.2 
Waste Collection Safety. Encourage waste, recycling, and other collection trucks 
to avoid blocking intersections and causing traffic delays.  
 
 
 
 
 
77 of 317

--- page 78 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
Barneson Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
5
4
6
3
7
2
1
Source: USGS and City of San Mateo Public Works.
WATERSHEDS
FIGURE PSF-1
GENERAL PLAN
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Watershed Number &
Name
1. Laurel Creek
2. Nineteenth
3. Sixteenth
4. San Mateo Creek
5. North San Mateo
6. Shoreview Park
7. Mariners Island
For planning purposes only.
78 of 317

--- page 79 ---
Page S-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
8. 
SAFETY ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
EMERGENCY READINESS AND EMERGENCY OPERATIONS 
 
Minimize potential damage to life, environment, and property through 
timely, well-prepared, and well-coordinated emergency preparedness, 
response plans, and programs.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P1.1 
Emergency Readiness.  Maintain the CityБ─≥s emergency readiness and response 
capabilities, especially regarding hazardous materials spills, natural gas pipeline 
ruptures, fire hazards, wildland fire risk, earthquakes, pandemics, and flooding 
due to dam failure, tsunami, peak storms, levee failure, and critical incidents.   
Policy S-P1.2 
Local Hazard Mitigation Plan. The San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan, approved by the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) in 2021, is incorporated by reference into this Safety Element in 
accordance with Assembly Bill 2140.  
Policy S-P1.3 
Location of Critical Facilities.  When locating critical facilities, such as hospitals, 
schools, fire, police, emergency service facilities, and utilities, avoid areas 
subject to slope failure, wildland fire, flooding, sea level rise, and other hazards 
and prioritize access to and from disadvantaged communities that are 
underserved by existing facilities.  
Policy S-P1.4 
Multiple Egress Points. Require new development in any hazard area to provide 
multiple points of emergency access (ingress and egress).  
Policy S-P1.5 
Emergency Planning Document Coordination. Pursue integration of the CityБ─≥s 
existing safety and emergency management documents with one another, 
including this Safety Element, the LHMP, and other related documents.  
Policy S-P1.6 
Emergency Infrastructure and Equipment. Maintain and fund the CityБ─≥s 
emergency operations center in a full functional state of readiness. Designate a 
back-up Emergency Operations Center with communications redundancies.  
Policy S-P1.7 
Defensible Design.  Require all developments, including parks and public places, 
to incorporate measures to provide a safe environment through the application 
of crime prevention through design principles, such as orienting buildings to the 
street and providing adequate lighting and sight lines.  
79 of 317

--- page 80 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
Page S-2 
Policy S-P1.8 
Response Times. When reviewing and analyzing roadway improvements, 
consider how emergency response times can be maintained and improved, 
including the availability of alternative routes. 
Policy S-P1.9 
Local Utility Cooperation. Work with local utility operators to identify if and 
when a public safety power shutoff (PSPS) may be necessary to reduce hazard 
risks in San Mateo and/or the surrounding area, and support publication of 
advanced notification and resources to residents in the City to help them 
prepare.  
Policy S-P1.10 
Disaster Recovery. Ensure that the City government continues to operate 
during and after hazard events and is able to provide resources and guidance to 
people and institutions in San Mateo to aid them in recovery and reconstruction 
following the end of the hazard event.  
Policy S-P1.11 
Evacuation Education. Include information about safe and effective evacuation 
as part of all natural hazard awareness, prevention, and community education 
and training efforts. Share information about how to prepare for evacuations, 
potential evacuation routes and shelter locations, how to receive notifications, 
and other relevant topics.  
Policy S-P1.12 
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community of potential hazards affecting their 
neighborhood. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage broad 
representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically 
underserved communities.  
ACTIONS 
Action S-A1.1 
Evacuation Routes. Maintain adequate evacuation routes as identified by 
arterial streets shown in the Circulation Element, Figure C-2. Evaluate each 
evacuation routeБ─≥s feasibility using a range of hazard criteria. Update this map 
on a regular basis to reflect changing conditions and State requirements for 
evacuation routes.  
Action S-A1.2 
Regular Updates. Update the Safety Element with each Housing Element 
update, or every eight years, as necessary to meet state and local requirements. 
Action S-A1.3 
Automatic and Mutual Aid Agreements. Participate in mutual aid agreements 
with other local jurisdictions to provide coordinated regional responses, as 
necessary, to fire, flood, earthquake, critical incidents and other hazard events 
in San Mateo and the surrounding area. Work with local jurisdictions to share 
resources and develop regional plans to implement disaster mitigation and 
resilience strategies such as government continuity, emergency operations 
centers, communications redundancies.  
80 of 317

--- page 81 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
 
Page S-3 
Action S-A1.4 
Rebuilding Priorities. Establish rebuilding priorities and procedures in the event 
of a major disaster to expedite reconstruction and enhance access to funding 
opportunities.  
Action S-A1.5 
Resilient Power Systems. Explore the feasibility of on-site power generation 
and storage on City facilities to reduce reliance on regional power infrastructure 
in case of a hazard-caused power outage.  
Action S-A1.6 
Public Safety Outreach. Develop a public safety education program to increase 
public awareness of potential hazards, CityБ─≥s emergency readiness and response 
program, and evacuation routes.  Target public education programs to segments 
of the community that are most vulnerable to hazards and safety risks.  
Action S-A1.7 
Community Training. Collaborate with SMCFD to provide emergency 
preparedness trainings to maintain and expand existing Community Emergency 
Response Teams (CERT)s.  
Action S-A1.8 
Emergency Infrastructure and Equipment. Put systems in place to ensure that 
traffic lights at major intersections, communications and radio infrastructure, 
and other critical infrastructure continues to function in the event of localized 
power outage. Repair any damaged sets of infrastructure or equipment as 
needed to continue City operations.  
Action S-A1.9 
Continuity of Operations. Regularly review, update, and implement as needed 
the San Mateo Continuing of Operations/Continuity of Government Plan.  
Action S-A1.10 
Response Time Study. Conduct a Response Time Study to provide a data-driven 
understanding of how future roadway safety improvements could impact 
emergency response times and use this information to adjust proposed 
roadway improvements as needed.  
Action S-A1.11 
Emergency Notification System. Develop an emergency notification system 
(e.g. SMC Alert) for flood-prone neighborhoods and businesses before, during, 
and after a climate hazard event and assist in their evacuation, if needed. This 
includes coordination with the San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise 
Resiliency District (OneShoreline) on its early flood warning notification system.  
GEOTECHNICAL HAZARDS 
 
Take steps to protect the community from unreasonable risk to life and 
property caused by seismic and geologic hazards.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P2.1 
Geologic Hazards.  Require site specific geotechnical and engineering studies, 
subject to the review and approval of the delegated City Engineer and Building 
81 of 317

--- page 82 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
Page S-4 
Official, for development proposed on sites identified in Figure S-1 as having 
moderate or high potential for ground failure.  Permit development in areas of 
potential geologic hazards only where it can be demonstrated that the project 
will not be endangered by, nor contribute to, the hazardous condition on the 
site or on adjacent properties.  
Policy S-P2.2 
Landslides and Erosion Control.   Reduce landslides and erosion in existing and 
new development through continuing education of design professionals on 
mitigation strategies. Control measures shall retain natural topographic and 
physical features of the site if feasible.  
Policy S-P2.3 
Unreinforced Masonry Buildings.  Encourage modifications of existing 
unreinforced masonry buildings, and similar unsafe building conditions to 
reduce the associated life safety hazards from ground shaking during 
earthquakes, as shown on Figure S-2. Require structural modifications to be 
designed to be in character with the existing architectural style.  
Policy S-P2.4 
Liquefaction. Use the best-available liquefaction mapping data to avoid siting 
and locating new public facilities and infrastructure in areas susceptible to 
liquefaction, as shown in Figure S-1.  
ACTIONS 
Action S-A2.1 
Seismic Shaking Mapping. Consult with a geology specialist to update the CityБ─≥s 
geologic hazard mapping documenting the areas within City with moderate or 
high potential for liquefaction or ground failure, as shown in Figure S-1.  
Action S-A2.2 
Incentives for Seismic Upgrades. Develop and implement a program to provide 
financial incentives and education to building owners to support seismic 
upgrades.  
Action S-A2.3 
Seismic Stability. Review the seismic stability of the CityБ─≥s assets and 
infrastructure, such as City Hall, recreational facilities, roadways and bridges and 
identify improvements necessary to enhance each facilityБ─≥s ability to withstand 
geologic hazards, up to and including a full replacement of the facility.   
FLOOD HAZARDS 
 
Protect the community from unreasonable risk to life and property 
caused by flood hazards.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P3.1 
Development within Floodplains.  Protect new development within a floodplain 
by requiring new habitable floor area to be above the applicable floodwater 
elevation or by incorporating other flood-proofing measures consistent with 
82 of 317

--- page 83 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
 
Page S-5 
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regulations and the City of San 
MateoБ─≥s Floodplain Management Ordinance.  
ACTIONS  
Action S-A3.1 
Floodplain Ordinance Update. Update the Floodplain Management Ordinance, 
including to align with FEMA and OneShoreline recommendations and to update 
construction cost value information.  
Action S-A3.2 
Flood Risk Mapping Data. Regularly update mapping data pertaining to the 100-
year and 500-year floodplains as mapped by FEMA as well as dams and levee 
failure as information becomes available.  
Action S-A3.3 
Community Rating System. Undertake efforts that increase the City's rating 
under FEMAБ─≥s Community Rating System, such as expanding and improving 
Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping capacity, developing a flood early 
warning system, and creating a Flood Emergency Action Plan. 
Action S-A3.4 
Early Flood Warning. Collaborate with OneShoreline to provide early flood 
warning for flood-prone areas of the city through OneShorelineБ─≥s stream 
monitoring station and notification system, as needed. 
SEA LEVEL RISE 
 
Develop regionally coordinated sea level rise adaptation measures and 
programs.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P4.1 
Sea Level Rise Planning. Integrate sea level rise planning into all relevant City 
processes, including General Plan amendments, Specific Plans, zoning ordinance 
updates, capital projects, and review and approval of new development and 
substantial retrofits. 
Policy S-P4.2 
Sea Level Rise Protection. Ensure that new development, substantial retrofits, 
critical facilities, and City-owned buildings and infrastructure are planned and 
designed to accommodate climate change hazards, including increases in 
flooding, sea level rise and rising groundwater. 
Policy S-P4.3 
Rising Groundwater Protection. Ensure new development and substantial 
retrofits are protected from rising groundwater levels based on best available 
science.  
Policy S-P4.4 
Natural Infrastructure. Prioritize the use of nature-based solutions and natural 
infrastructure in sea level rise adaptation strategies. 
83 of 317

--- page 84 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
Page S-6 
Policy S-P4.5 
OneShoreline Coordination. Coordinate with OneShoreline to develop and 
implement coordinated approaches to sea level rise with other San Mateo 
County jurisdictions.  
ACTIONS 
Action S-A4.1 
Sea Level Rise Data. Identify sea level rise projections, consistent with 
OneShoreline recommendations, to define the extent of areas vulnerable to sea 
level rise in the city. Use this data in planning efforts and to evaluate all private 
and public development applications to ensure projects are protected from sea 
level rise hazards over the life of the project.  
Action S-A4.2 
Sea Level Rise Monitoring. Continue to review and use the best available sea 
level rise science and projections and regularly identify natural resources, 
development, infrastructure, and communities that are vulnerable to sea level 
rise impacts, including impacts from rising groundwater. Use this information to 
continue to develop or adjust planning and adaptation strategies. 
Action S-A4.3 
City Sea Level Rise Staff. Identify City staff who will be responsible for leading 
the CityБ─≥s sea level rise planning efforts, coordinating with outside agencies, and 
coordinating with City departments on preparing and planning for sea level rise. 
Action S-A4.4 
Rising Groundwater Coordination. Coordinate with OneShoreline, local 
jurisdictions and regional and state agencies to study and enforce requirements 
related to rising groundwater levels caused by sea level rise. 
Action S-A4.5 
Natural Infrastructure. Use or restore natural features and ecosystem processes 
where feasible and appropriate as a preferred approach to the placement of 
hard shoreline protection when implementing sea level rise adaptation 
strategies.  
Action S-A4.6 
Removal of Hard Infrastructure. Remove existing shoreline or creek bank 
protective devices when the structure(s) requiring protection are redeveloped, 
removed, or no longer require a protective device. 
WILDFIRE HAZARDS 
 
Maintain adequate fire and life safety protection from wildland fires.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P5.1 
Wildland Fire Protection.  Require all development in and adjacent to 
designated wildland fire areas to provide access and defensible space in 
accordance with California Codes and local ordinances.  
Policy S-P5.2 
Wildland-Urban Interface. Coordinate with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department to ensure that new construction in the Wildland-Urban Interface 
84 of 317

--- page 85 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
 
Page S-7 
(WUI) is in full compliance with all applicable sections of the California Building 
Standards Code, Title 24.   
Policy S-P5.3 
Hillside Vegetation Stability. Stabilize, and as feasible re-vegetate, burned 
slopes following a wildfire event to reduce landslide and debris flows risk.  
Policy S-P5.4 
Fire Risk Mapping. Coordinate with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department to consistently update any mapping data showing fire extent in San 
Mateo using CAL FIRE data and local wildland fire risk maps indicating the 
locations and extents of Fire Hazard Severity Zones, Local Responsibility Areas, 
and the Wildland-Urban Interface. Use this mapping data to inform decisions 
about existing risk and future land uses throughout the City and share these 
maps widely on the City website, published handouts and flyers, and in-person 
and virtual education events.  
Policy S-P5.5 
Firefighting Infrastructure. Coordinate with the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department to ensure adequate firefighting infrastructure, including road and 
building clearance for firefighting vehicles and clear and legible street signage 
throughout the community.  
Policy S-P5.6 
Peakload Water Supply.  Seek to ensure that the California Water Service 
Company and the Estero Municipal Improvement District provide and maintain 
a water supply and distribution system which provides an adequate static 
pressure to deliver the minimum fire hydrant flow to all areas of the City, except 
where a lesser flow is acceptable as determined by the San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department. 
Policy S-P5.7 
Facilities Planning. Place all new public facilities or relocate existing public 
facilities outside of identified fire hazard risk areas as feasible. Appropriately 
retrofit public facilities to mitigate fire risk.  
Policy S-P5.8 
Land Use Management for Fire Risks. Maintain all City-owned public lands to 
reduce fuel loads, establish appropriately-placed fire breaks/defensible space, 
and educate all property owners in the City on proper landscape maintenance 
and firescaping standards to reduce the risk of fire hazards.  
Policy S-P5.9 
Wildland Fire Vulnerability. Consider all improvements at Sugarloaf Mountain 
and Laurelwood Park in the context of the areaБ─≥s high fire risk, and include 
wildfire mitigation components in projects when feasible.  
ACTIONS 
Action S-A5.1 
Tree Trimming. Trim and maintain the trees in the CityБ─≥s urban forest on a 
regular basis to clear them of any loose branches or debris that could serve as 
fuel in a fire event.  
Action S-A5.2 
Fire-Safe Education. Work with the San Mateo Fire Department and seek 
funding to develop a fire-safe education program that provides information and 
85 of 317

--- page 86 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
Page S-8 
awareness to community members about defensive space, fire-resistant 
landscaping and construction, evacuation preparation, and other wildfire 
education topics.  
Action S-A5.3 
Fire Hazard History. Include an historical record of any significant fire events 
that have occurred in San Mateo or the surrounding area in all updates to the 
CityБ─≥s Safety Element.  
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
 
Protect the communityБ─≥s health, safety, and welfare relating to the use, 
storage, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P6.1 
County Cooperation.  Cooperate with the County of San Mateo and San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department in the regulation of hazardous materials and 
transportation of such material in San Mateo. Share hazardous materials 
management enforcement with San Mateo County and San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department. 
Policy S-P6.2 
County Hazardous Waste Management Plan.  Adopt by reference all goals, 
policies, implementation measures, and supporting data contained in the San 
Mateo County Hazardous Waste Management Plan. Make amendments, as 
necessary, to suit local needs and issues.  
Policy S-P6.3 
Transportation Routes. Restrict the transportation of hazardous materials and 
waste to truck routes designated in Circulation Policy C-P6.5, and limit such 
transportation to non-commute hours.  
Policy S-P6.4 
Hazardous Waste Management Facilities Location.  Regulate the location and 
operation of new hazardous waste management facilities.   
Policy S-P6.5 
Design of Hazardous Waste Management Facilities.  Require the following 
features and mitigation measures in the design of proposed hazardous waste 
management facilities to minimize potential health, safety, and aesthetic 
impacts on surrounding properties and occupants:  
 
For sites located in areas subject to flooding or inundation as shown on 
Figures S-3 and 4, require facilities to have a surface elevation at least 
1.5 feet above the maximum flood water level for areas containing 
hazardous substances or to be flood-proofed in some other manner 
suitable to the City. 
 
Require facilities to provide for full on-site containment of maximum 
permitted quantities of hazardous substances, including protection of 
storm drain or sanitary sewer inlets from accidental entry of hazardous 
materials. 
86 of 317

--- page 87 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
 
Page S-9 
 
Require facilities to provide separate storage and/or treatment of 
potentially reactive substances, including separate spill containment 
vessels.  Require that storage of hazardous gasses provides for adequate 
filtration and neutralization devices to prohibit accidental release of toxic 
substances. 
 
Require that all storage and treatment occur within an enclosed structure. 
 
Require new facilities be sited as far away as possible within the project 
site from sensitive receptors such as homes, schools, playgrounds, sports 
fields, childcare centers, senior centers, and long-term health care 
facilities. 
Policy S-P6.6 
Risk Assessment.  Require the preparation of a risk assessment to determine 
site suitability for applications for hazardous waste management facilities, 
establishing the distance requirements from public assembly, residential, or 
immobile population and recreational areas or structures; impacts from seismic, 
geologic, and flood hazards; fire hazards; impacts on wetlands, endangered 
species, air quality, and emergency response capabilities; and proximity to 
major transport routes.  
Policy S-P6.7 
Contaminated Sites.  Require the cleanup of contaminated sites, including those 
indicated on the Hazardous Waste and Substances Sites List published by the 
Department of Toxic Substance Control and/or other agencies such as the San 
Mateo County Health Department and the Regional Water Quality Control 
Board, in conjunction with substantial site development or redevelopment, 
where feasible.  
Policy S-P6.8 
Cost Recovery.  Require San Mateo County businesses which generate 
hazardous waste or applicants for hazardous waste management facilities to 
pay necessary costs for implementation of Hazardous Waste Management Plans 
and for application costs, and to pay for costs associated with emergency 
response services in the event of a hazardous material release, to the extent 
permitted by law.  
ACTIONS 
Action S-A6.1 
Shared Data.  Regularly coordinate with San Mateo County to collect data on 
businesses that store hazardous substances to share with local emergency 
service providers, including the Police Department and San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department, as well as the Public Works Department for the wastewater 
source control program. 
 
87 of 317

--- page 88 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  S A F E T Y  E L E M E N T  
Page S-10 
ENERGY SUPPLY 
 
Promote the development of a clean energy supply, state-of-the-art 
technology, and telecommunications facilities that benefit the public.  
POLICIES 
Policy S-P7.1 
Clean Energy. Support the advancement of a carbon neutral energy supply.  
Policy S-P7.2 
Building Electrification. Promote electrification for new and existing building 
stock.  
Policy S-P7.3 
Energy Resilience. Continue to require new development projects to 
incorporate solar energy systems and battery storage into their projects 
(Building Integrated Photo-Voltaic / BIPV) and encourage existing development 
to incorporate solar energy systems.  
Policy S-P7.4 
Service Improvement and Expansion. Seek to ensure adequate energy and 
communication systems to serve existing and future needs while minimizing 
impacts on existing and future residents through the following policies:  
 Require all new developments to underground lines and provide 
underground connections when feasible.  
 Balance the need for cellular coverage with the desire to minimize visual 
impacts of cellular facilities, antennas, and equipment shelters.  
Policy S-P7.5 
Access and Availability. Work with service providers to support ensuring access 
to and availability of a wide range of state-of-the-art telecommunication 
systems and services for households, businesses, institutions, and public 
agencies in San Mateo.  
Policy S-P7.6 
Clean Fuel Infrastructure. Support efforts to build electric vehicle charging 
stations and clean fuel stations in San Mateo, including hydrogen and 
sustainably-sourced biofuels, as supported by market conditions.  
ACTION 
Action S-A7.1 
Utility Undergrounding. Underground electrical and communication 
transmission and distribution lines in residential areas and commercial 
frontages as funds permit.  
 
 
 
88 of 317

--- page 89 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@
@@
@
@
@
@
@
@ @
@
@
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: City of San Mateo
SLOPE STABILITY &
LIQUEFACTION
FIGURE S-1
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
@
Landslide Deposits
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Slope Failure Potential
High
Moderate
Liquefaction Potential
High
Moderate
For planning purposes only.
89 of 317

--- page 90 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shor
e
view Ave
16th Ave
Barneson Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
A
A
A
A
A
A
B
C
D
E
E
D
C
B
E
F
H
H
G
C
G
C
F
G
D
C
H
F
F
H
H
H
C
F
Source: ABAG, "On Shaky Ground" 1995.
SHAKING AMPLIFICATION
DURING EARTHQUAKES
FIGURE S-2
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Shaking Amplification
Extremely High (A)
Very High (B)
High (C)
Moderately High (D)
Moderate (E)
Moderately Low (F)
Low (G)
Very Low (H)
For planning purposes only.
90 of 317

--- page 91 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Keho
e Ave
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
Barneson Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
BE
LM
ON
T
CR
EE
K
SAN MATEO CREEK
SANCHEZ CREEK
PO
LH
EM
US
CR
EE
K
M
A
RI
N
A
L
A
G
O
O
N
SAN MATEO CREEK
LAUREL CREEK
Source: FEMA and City of San Mateo Public works
POTENTIAL FLOOD
HAZARDS
FIGURE S-3
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
Surface Waterways
Underground Waterways
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Potential Inundation Area Due to
100-yr Peak Storm Water at 16th
Ave Storm Drain Channel
Potential Inundation Area Due to
100-yr Peak Storm Water at 19th
Ave Storm Drain Channel
Potential Inundation Area Due to
100-yr Peak Storm Water along
San Mateo Creek
Potential Inundation Area Due to
100-yr Peak Storm Water along
Laurel Creek
For planning purposes only.
Stormwater Runoff
91 of 317

--- page 92 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
a
le
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Keho
e Ave
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
BELMONT CREEK
SAN MATEO CREEK
SANCHEZ CREEK
PO
LH
EM
US
CR
EE
K
M
A
RI
N
A
L
A
G
O
O
N
SAN MATEO CREEK
LAUREL CREEK
Source: Earth Science Associates, 1987
POTENTIAL FLOOD
HAZARDS
FIGURE S-4
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
Surface Waterways
Underground Waterways
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Potential Inundation due to Laurel
Creek Dam Failure
Potential Inundation due to Crystal
Springs Dam Failure
For planning purposes only.
Dam and Levee Failure
92 of 317

--- page 93 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
A
nz
a
B
l
v
d
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
Barneson Ave
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
SAN
MATEO FIRE
STATION 25
SAN MATEO FIRE
STATION 24
SAN MATEO FIRE
STATION 21
SAN MATEO
FIRE
STATION 27
SAN MATEO
FIRE
STATION 23
SAN MATEO
POLICE
DEPARTMENT
SAN MATEO FIRE
STATION 26
Source: City of San Mateo.
FIRE AND 
POLICE SERVICES
FIGURE S-5
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Police (Emergency
Operations Center)
Fire
For planning purposes only.
93 of 317

--- page 94 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
Barneson Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: LRA Fire Maps; PHC-DOIT; ESRI Feature Service, 2022.
WILDFIRE HAZARD
ZONES
FIGURE S-6
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Very High Fire Hazard Zone Local
Responsibility Area (LRA)
Current Brush Clearing Area
Notices
For planning purposes only.
94 of 317

--- page 95 ---
HILLSBOROUGH
FOSTER CITY
BELMONT
BURLINGAME
бё
бє
101
бё
бє
101
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 82 
бЇ|}ц╬
 92 
бё
бє
101
Sunnybrae Blv
d
E
28
th
Av
e
Y
ale
Dr
M
urphy
D
r
4
2
nd A
v
e
La S
elva St
W
3r
d
A
ve
W 20
th Ave
Palm Ave
9th Ave
37
th Ave
S B
St
W 5th Ave
D
e
An
z
a
B
lvd
W
P
o
plar Ave
S Gra
nt
S
t
R
obe
rta D
r
N
e
w
bridge Ave
Kehoe A
ve
Shoreview Ave
16th Ave
Barneson Ave
B
o
rel
A
ve
M
ap
le St
2nd Ave
Ediso
n
S
t
Monte Diablo Ave
Tilton Ave
Hacienda St
N
B St
G
le
n
do
ra Dr
Los
P
r
a
d
os
28th Ave
31st Ave
N
Amphlett Blvd
Aragon Blvd
Parro
tt
Dr
B
o
vet
R
d
W
a
yn
e Way
C
a
m
p
u
s Dr
Source: Adapting to Rising Tides Sea Level Rise Data, 2017; City of San Mateo.
SEA LEVEL RISE
FIGURE S-7
GENERAL PLAN
SAFETY
CITY OF SAN MATEO
July 2022
SCALE:  1" = 0.65 Mile
San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence
Railroad
Sea level rise inundation
(2100)
45.5 inches
0 inches
For planning purposes only.
95 of 317

--- page 96 ---
Page N-1 
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O  2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
9. 
NOISE ELEMENT 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
 
Protect Б─°noise sensitiveБ─² land uses from excessive noise levels.  
POLICIES 
Policy N-P1.1 
Interior Noise Level Standard. Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and 
interior noise insulation for all Б─°noise sensitiveБ─² land uses listed in Table N-1 that 
have an exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-1 
[NOTE: Figure N-1 will be updated at a later phase of the project.]. The 
maximum interior noise level shall not exceed 45 dBA (Ldn) in any habitable 
rooms, as established by the California Building Code.  
Policy N-P1.2 
Exterior Noise Level Standard. Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, 
play areas, and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the 
enjoyment of residents) that have an exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or 
above, as shown on Figure N-1 [NOTE: Figure N-1 will be updated at a later 
phase of the project.]. Require an acoustical analysis that uses peak hour Leq for 
new parks and play areas. Require a feasibility analysis of noise reduction 
measures for public parks and play areas. Incorporate necessary mitigation 
measures into residential project design to minimize common open space noise 
levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 65 dBA (Ldn) for residential 
uses and should not exceed 65 dBA (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park 
uses.  
Policy N-P1.3 
Inclusive Outreach. Notify the community when new land uses that would 
result in excessive noise levels are being considered and inform community 
members about how they can engage in the process. Use outreach and 
engagement methods that encourage broad representation and are culturally 
sensitive, particularly for historically underserved communities.  
 
Minimize unnecessary, annoying, or unhealthful noise.  
POLICIES 
Policy N-P2.1 
Noise Regulation. Regulate noise in San Mateo to prohibit noise that is 
annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal sensitivity.  
Policy N-P2.2 
Minimize Noise Impacts.  Protect all Б─°noise-sensitiveБ─² land uses listed in Tables 
N-1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize short-term noise impacts. Prohibit long-term operational 
96 of 317

--- page 97 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T  
Page N-2 
noise increases at the sensitive receptor property line, or new uses which 
generate noise levels at the sensitive receptor property line, as follows:  
О┌ї 
Greater than 1.5 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of 65 
dBA Ldn and higher; 
О┌ї 
Greater than 3 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of 60 - 64 
Ldn; and 
О┌ї 
Greater than 5 dBA Ldn increase for ambient noise environments of less 
than 60 dBA Ldn.  
Policy N-P2.3 
Minimize Commercial Noise. Protect land uses other than those listed as Б─°noise 
sensitiveБ─² in Table N-1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise 
generated by new developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures 
into development design to minimize short-term and long-term noise impacts. 
Prohibit new uses that generate noise levels of 65 dBA (Ldn) or above at the 
property line, excluding existing ambient noise levels.  
Policy N-P2.4 
Traffic Noise. Recognize projected increases in ambient noise levels resulting 
from traffic increases, as shown on Figure N-2 [NOTE: Figure N-2 will be updated 
at a later phase of the project]. Promote the installation of noise barriers or 
other methods to reduce traffic noise along highways and high volume 
roadways where Б─°noise-sensitiveБ─² land uses listed in Table N-1 are adversely 
impacted by excessive noise levels [60 dBA (Ldn) or above].  equire adequate 
noise mitigation to be incorporated into the widening of SR 92 and US 101.  
Policy N-P2.5 
Railroad Noise. Support the installation of noise barriers and other mitigations 
along the railroad corridor where Б─°noise-sensitiveБ─² land uses are adversely 
impacted by excessive noise levels [60 dBA (Ldn) or greater].   
Policy N-P2.6 
Railroad Vibration. Require that new residential projects (or other sensitive 
uses) located within 200 feet of existing railroad lines conduct a groundborne 
vibration and noise evaluation consistent with Federal Transit Administration-
approved methodologies.  
Policy N-P2.7 
Construction Noise and Vibration. Continue to prioritize construction noise 
limits and vibration monitoring around sensitive receptors, including through 
limiting construction hours and individual and cumulative noise from 
construction equipment.  
Policy N-P2.8 
Construction Noise and Vibration Monitoring. For larger development projects 
that demand intensive construction periods and/or use equipment that could 
create vibration impacts, require a vibration impact analysis, as well as 
monitoring and reporting of noise levels throughout construction, consistent 
with industry standards. The monitoring plan should include information on the 
monitoring locations, durations and regularity, the instrumentation to be used 
and appropriate noise control measures to ensure compliance with the noise 
ordinance.  
97 of 317

--- page 98 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T  
 
Page N-3 
ACTIONS  
Action N-A2.1 
Railroad Noise Study. Implement projects necessary to achieve Quiet Zones in 
the City such as elimination of at-grade rail crossings or other mitigation 
measures to decrease horn and other operational noise levels prior to 
substantial expansion of the rail service.  
Action N-A2.2 
Railroad Noise Barriers. Work with the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
to promote and encourage adequate noise mitigations and barriers to be 
incorporated into any rail service expansion or track realignment.  
Table N-1: 
Noise Sensitive Land Use Compatibility Guidelines 
Land Use Category 
Day-Night Average Noise Level, Ldn (dBA) 
0-59 
60-65 
65-70 
71-80 
over 81 
Residential Б─⌠ Low Density * 
 
 
 
 
Residential Б─⌠ Medium and High 
Density * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hotels, Motels, and other Lodging 
 
 
 
 
Schools, Libraries, Hospitals, Long-
Term Care Facilities 
 
 
 
 
Multifamily Common Open Space 
for the Use and Enjoyment of 
Residents  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally Acceptable. Specified land use is satisfactory based on the assumption that any 
buildings involved are of normal, conventional construction, without any special noise insulation 
requirements. 
 
 
Conditionally Acceptable. New construction or development should be undertaken only after 
a detailed analysis of the noise reduction requirements is made and needed insulation features 
have been included in the design. 
 
Normally Unacceptable. New construction or development should not be undertaken. 
 
 
* See residential land use designations in the Land Use Element of this General Plan. 
 
98 of 317

--- page 99 ---
C I T Y  O F  S A N  M A T E O   
2 0 4 0  G E N E R A L  P L A N  
D R A F T  N O I S E  E L E M E N T  
Page N-4 
Table N-2: 
Noise Guidelines for Outdoor Activities 
Land Use Category 
Average Noise Level, Leq (dBA) 
0-59 
60-65 
65-70 
71-80 
over 81 
Parks, Playgrounds, Privately Owned 
Publicly Accessible Open Space 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally Acceptable. Specified land use is satisfactory based on the assumption that any buildings involved 
are of normal, conventional construction, without any special noise insulation requirements. 
 
 
Normally Unacceptable. New construction or development should not be undertaken. 
 
 
 
99 of 317

--- page 100 ---
MEMORANDUM  
DATE 
September 19, 2022 
TO 
San Mateo Planning Commission  
FROM 
Joanna Jansen and Carey Stone, PlaceWorks 
SUBJECT 
Summary of Community Engagement and Public Input on the Draft Policies and Actions 
This memorandum summarizes the community input received on the draft policies and actions as of 
September 19, 2022. Table 1 summarizes the past and planned outreach events. The purpose of the 
outreach events is to spread the word about the draft policies and actions, answer questions, and collect 
feedback and reactions to the proposed policy language.  
 
TABLE 1 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH EVENTS 
Date 
Outreach Event 
# of Participants 
Thursday, July 21, 2022 to 
Friday, October 14, 2022 
Draft Policies and Actions Online Survey 
158* 
Saturday, July 16, 2022 to 
Monday, September 19, 2022 
Written Public Comments 
31 
Tuesday, August 23, 2022 
Video Loco Pop-up 
25 
Thursday, August 25, 2022 
Video Loco Pop-up 
20 
Friday, August 26, 2022 
Chavez Market Pop-up 
15 
Saturday, August 27, 2022 
Rediscover San Mateo Community Fest Pop-up 
140 
September 06, 2022 
Chavez Market Pop-up 
50 
Thursday, September 8, 2022 
Virtual Community Workshop 
26 
Friday, September 9, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
50 
Saturday, September 10, 2022 
Spanish Language Workshop 
4 
Saturday, September 10, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
30 
Thursday, September 15, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
15 
Friday, September 16, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
50 
Saturday, September 17, 2022 
Open House 
30 
100 of 317

--- page 101 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 2 
 
TABLE 1 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH EVENTS 
Date 
Outreach Event 
# of Participants 
Thursday, September 22, 2022 
September Nights on B Street Pop-up 
TBD 
Friday, September 23, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
TBD 
Saturday, September 24, 2022 
San Mateo Firefighters Association Chili Cook-off Pop-up 
TBD 
Thursday, September 30, 2022 
Movies in the Park Pop-up 
TBD 
 
*158 survey respondents as of September 19, 2022. 
SUMMARY OF COMMUNITY INPUT BY TOPIC/ELEMENT 
This section summarizes the feedback on the draft policies and actions. The City collected feedback via: 
О│╝ Draft Policies and Actions Online Survey.  The online survey is available on 
www.strivesanmateo.org from July 21, 2022 through October 14, 2022 to allow community 
members an opportunity to share reactions and feedback on the draft policies and actions. 
Respondents can choose to provide input on some or all of the goals and policies of the seven 
General Plan elements. The settings of the survey restrict the number of responses to one per 
person and track web browser cookies to help ensure that each participant only completes 
the survey once. The online survey is not considered statistically significant.  
О│╝ Pop-up Events. The City has planned 13 pop-up events to occur at locations throughout the 
city to ensure the outreach process collects input from the following groups per Council 
direction: 
o Non-English speakers 
o Renters  
o Residents 44 and under  
o Low-income and very low-income households 
o Under-represented neighborhoods: 
О┌ї 
North Shoreview 
О┌ї 
Shoreview 
О┌ї 
North Central 
О┌ї 
Central 
О┌ї 
East of 101 
At the pop-up events, City staff has been sharing information about the General Plan update, 
publicized the upcoming outreach events, and encouraging people to take the online survey.  
О│╝ Virtual Workshop and Open Houses. The City hosted a virtual workshop on Thursday, 
September 8, 2022, an in-person Spanish language Open House on September 10, 2022, and 
101 of 317

--- page 102 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 3 
an in-person Open House on September 17, 2022. At these events, participants could ask 
questions and provide feedback on the draft policies and actions. 
О│╝ Written Comments. Throughout the General Plan Update the City has encouraged people to 
submit written comments to generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org. From July 1, 2022 to 
September 19, 2022, the City received 31 written comments. Attachment A includes the 
original written comments submitted to the City.  
The following sections organize the feedback according to the relevant General Plan element. 
Environmental justice comments are located under the Б─°Environmental JusticeБ─² header.  
Land Use Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City should focus its land use planning efforts, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Maintain downtown San Mateo as the economic, cultural, and social center of 
the community. 
o Promote residential and mixed use land uses and improvements along El 
Camino Real to strengthen its role as both alocal and regional connector. 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Encourage a wide range of land uses, including housing, parks, open space, 
retail, etc. 
o Help improve conditions in equity priority communities. *Note: Equity priority 
communities are areas that have asignificant concentration of underserved 
populations, such as households with low incomes and people of color. 
o Promote balanced, orderly and equitable growth. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Focus housing growth close to public transit and retail areas where the impact 
on existing neighborhoods will be limited. 
o Prioritize residential uses in mixed use designations. Push for a higher number 
of housing units and resident parking in mixed use buildings. 
o Increase the Below Market Rate housing from 15 percent to 20 percent or more 
for new projects that provide affordable housing. 
o Maintain the jobs/housing balance. 
o Prioritize land use policies that will further ithe CityБ─≥s environmental and social 
equity goals. There seems to be a disconnect between these goals and the 
physical planning and design approaches outlined in the draft Land Use 
Element.  
o Encourage transit-oriented, high density, mixed used developments. 
o Increase family friendly rental housing that have three bedroom units. 
o Streamline permitting for new housing if it meets affordability targets. 
o Simplify the Accessory Dwelling Unit requirements. 
102 of 317

--- page 103 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 4 
o Prioritize housing over retail or office space in mixed use designations. 
o Develop along our various arterials with bus routes, like Alameda de las Pulgas 
and Hillsdale Blvd, not just El Camino Real.  
o Height, density, and parking requirements make it impossible to build 
affordable housing. 
o Preserve existing medical office sites; the shortage of primary care doctors will 
be exacerbated by new housing. 
o Limit the density of downtown development. 
o Require downtown development to account for grade separation. 
o Increase the maximum building height in downtown and elsewhere to support 
more housing options around major transit centers. 
o Add more housing and less office space. 
o Increase housing for all income levels.  
o Stop building housing to reduce traffic and noise. Maintain retail spaces. 
o Expand outdoor dining along B Street. Add more B Street type closures around 
the city. 
o Maintain commercial developments to buffer residential areas from traffic and 
train noise. 
o Stop big developments. 
o Respect Measure Y limits. Keep San MateoБ─≥s small town feel. 
o Increase building heights. 
o Consider five/six-story buildings along El Camino Real and near transit.  
o Stop the construction of housing provided by the government. 
o Accommodate the 1900 Norfolk development and the possible new building at 
the Fish Market. 
o Support Draegers marketstaying in downtown. Add a grocery store in 
downtown if Draegers leaves. 
o Promote smaller stores within communities instead of big stores. 
o Require mixed use projects to have a minimum of 40 percent housing if housing 
program benefits are to apply. 
o Consider the transition of office uses to residential uses only if there is access to 
transit, infrastructure, and recreation services. 
o Encourage retail uses.  
o Make shopping centers more Б─°greenБ─² and safe. 
o Repurpose underutlized spaces. 
o Increase family-friendly entertainment uses.  
o Maintain vacant land for park use. 
o Hold town halls and health fairs to engage with the community. 
o Employ ambassadors to walk around the City and engage with people about 
their issues and needs. Need more door to door visits. 
103 of 317

--- page 104 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 5 
o Publicize/have larger presence about City initiatives in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal. 
o Send out more mailers about City happenings.  
o Continue to offer Zoom meetings/workshops in the afternoons/evenings. 
o Offer in-person meetings. 
o Increase public noticing. 
o Consider renters in all City decisions. Encourage renters to participate in 
community engagement processes. 
o Provide child care at meetings. 
o Add WiFi at senior housing; offer digital classes. 
o Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by promoting access to shops, jobs, 
recreation, and services within walking distance.  
Circulation Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City should work toward a sustainable transportation system, the 
top two answers selected by respondents included: 
o Encourage mixed-use transit oriented development near Cal Train stations and 
transit corridors. 
o Prioritize bicycle and pedestrian safety improvements. 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Foster a sustainable transportation system that has walking, biking, and transit 
connections. 
o Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Reduce and eliminate traffic fatalities. 
o Reduce traffic congestion. 
o Reduce speed limits on driving corridors, especially on El Camino Real. 
o Add stop signs to  Sunnybrae Boulevard to reduce traffic speed. 
o Add stop signs to slow drivers between El camino Real and San Mateo Drive. 
o Implement Б─°less drasticБ─² speed bumps along Alameda de las Pulgas. 
o Keep 26th Avenue and Pico Avenue closed from Campus Drive. 
o Consider oneway streets for narrow roadways. 
o Design roadways across railroad tracks so you donБ─≥t have to drive on 19th 
Avenue to get from west San Mateo to east San Mateo. 
o Add connections under railroad tracks as part of grade separation projects. 
o As part of Hayward Station Caltrain redevelopment, connect 16th Avenue under 
the tracks for bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicles.  
o Add bicycle/pedestrian paths along the right-of-way as part of Caltrain 
construction efforts. 
104 of 317

--- page 105 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 6 
o Encourage biking and walking and prioritize bicycle and pedestrian safety 
improvements. 
o Increase off-street/protected bicycle and pedestrian trails. 
o Prioritize and seek out funding for existing proposed bicycle lanes. 
o Add more bike lanes. Add bike lanes along El Camino Real, 3rd Avenue, and 4th 
Avenue,  
o Add bike lockers. 
o Add a bicycle boulevard along Hacienda and Mason along with traffic calming 
measures. 
o Add a buffered bike lane on the Alameda. 
o Improve and widen sidewalks whenever possible.  
o Increase the safety and walkability of El Camino Real by adding crosswalks, 
improving sidewalks and increasing transit. 
o Widen sidewalks along El Camino Real between 20th and 25th Avenues. 
o Update downtown development guidelines so that building to the lot line does 
not reduce the existing sidewalk width. 
o Add a pedestrian bridge over SR 92 between 26th Avenue and Campus Drive. 
o Slow down traffic to 15 mph in school zones, even on main corridors like 
Alameda de las Pulgus in front of Aragon High School and Baywood Elementary. 
o Develop a safe routes for seniors program.  
o Improve pedestrian safety, especially along East Poplar and San Mateo Drive. 
o Allow riding on the sidewalk in appropriate areas. 
o Educate people about the benefit of bicycling and walking in terms of climate 
change. 
o Attract a micromobility provider to San Mateo. 
o Plan for improvements in micromobility including scooters and other new 
technology. 
o Apply complete streets design standards to future projects. 
o Improve transit, walking, and biking connections to parks, public facilities, 
shops, and schools. 
o Incentivize the use of public transportation. 
o Increase bicycle and pedestrian connectivity when reviewing new development 
projects. 
o Encourage electric bike rentals or electric bike subsidies for residents. 
o Add electric vehicle charging stations inpublic parking areas including schools. 
o Encourage carpooling. 
o Require developers to provide on-site parking instead of paying in-lieu fees.  
o Taking away parking to disincentivize car use doesnБ─≥t work;donБ─≥t remove 
parking for bike lanes. 
o Reduce parking requirements. 
o Limit parking lots. 
105 of 317

--- page 106 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 7 
o Repave the roads in the Sunnybrae neighborhood.  
o Avoid purely asiprational transportation policies; taking away parking will not 
decrease driving. To reduce traffic, encourage hybrid work approaches. 
o Make toll lanes on US 101 free to residents of the county where the lanes are 
located. 
o Consider shared parking, e.g. use Hillsdale Shipping Center for overnight 
parking. 
o Add street lighting citywide. 
o Focus engaging with homeowners, especially over 65 years old. 
Community Design and Historic Preservation Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City can help develop and maintain San MateoБ─≥s unique character, 
the top two answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Promote pedestrian improvements that increase neighborhood and citywide 
walkability. 
o Require usable public open space areas in new developments. 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Protect heritage trees and street trees. 
o Preserve and enhance San MateoБ─≥s natural setting. 
o Improve the visual character of mixed use and commercial areas. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Preserve historic resources. 
o Update the historic resource survey. 
o Pair historic and ecological preservation with a forward-looking approach to 
new development, including higher densities and acceptance of a range of 
architectural styles. 
o Strengthen the historic resource preservation policies. See the letter from the 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance in Attachment A for the list of suggestions. 
o Allow developers to contribute money for public education and interpretation 
of historic and archaeological resouces as a mitigation measure. 
o Educate the public about cultural resources. 
o Update historical plaques and landmarks; incorporate native voices. 
o Maintain the character of San Mateo in new development by incorporating 
classical design elements and sufficient green space. 
o Incorporate design principles to ensure that new buildings and additions are 
responsive and complementary to the existing historic character, local 
topography, urban design and sense of place that is evident throughout San 
Mateo. 
o Incorporate more traditional architectural in new buildings in or near the 
historic district. 
106 of 317

--- page 107 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 8 
o Improve the character of downtown. 
o Include shorter buildings at the street front and transition to taller buildings at 
the back to prevent an Б─°alleyБ─² feeling on a street. 
o Support more stories of building height if building design is attractive. 
o Add more benches downtown. 
o Prioritize pedestrian and wheelchair friendly design. 
o Continue to support ground floor retail uses and improvements the physical and 
aesthetic nature of the Borel Square commercial district. New buildings or 
remodels should incorporate natural landscaping that compliments the 
residential neighborhood. Encourage a mixed-use and community recreation 
facility.  
o Add more trees to keep the city cool from excessive heat. 
o Regularly water trees planted as part of the tree planting program. 
o Add flexibility for the removal and replacement of historic trees. Look at the 
criteria for tree removal. 
o Add incentives to remove trees that pose a fire danger. 
Conservation, Open Space, Parks and Recreation Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City can imporve access to parks, recreational programs, and 
facilities, the top two answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Increase availability of free park facilities and amenities that are open to the 
public. 
o Increase opportunities for residents to provide input on major park 
improvements. 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City should prioritize future park improvements, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Invest in underserved areas and areas with limited access to park facilities. 
o Improve and create new passive use outdoor spaces such as linear parks and 
pocket parks. 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Protect and enhance the CityБ─≥s natural resources. 
o Ensure that all San Mateo residents breathe safe, clean air. 
o Provide a comprehensive system of parks and recreation programs and 
facilities. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Maintain and preserve heritage trees. 
o Amend Policy CD-P2.3 to protect tree roots during construction activity. 
o Incorporate fire prevention measures in open space. 
o Develop more green space and sports fields. 
107 of 317

--- page 108 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 9 
o Add pocket parks everywhere. Work with the community to identify the 
locations. 
o Make private open space requirements flexible to increase open space. 
o Open Mickelson Pool. 
o Add a 50 meter swimming pool. 
o Upgrade the pickle ball courts at Central Park. 
o Paint and update all City buildings and community centers. 
o Reduce the amount of trash at Central Park. 
o Create a program where individuals can sponsor dog poop bag stations. 
o Offer a variety of professional concerts and performances at the San Mateo 
Performing Arts Center. 
o Ensure the accessibility of all public services and facilities, such as playgrounds 
and recreational programs for children with disabilities. 
o Add more spaces for community groups to gather. 
o Incorporate maker spaces in libraries or recreation centers. 
o Work with schools to open their playgrounds for public use. 
o Implement a Б─°Take a HikeБ─² program similar to the County of San Mateo. 
o Complete the Bay Trail. 
o Encourage healthy lifestyles through City events like walk-a-thons. 
o Add exercise stations along walking and jogging trails. 
o Add a water faucet at the Seal Point dog park bench/shade structure. 
o Plant trees at Seal Point. 
o Allow off-road bicycle access, including on singletrack trail segments, in 
Sugarloaf Open Space. 
o Utilize vacant lots for community gardens, trails, and exercise use. 
o Increase outdoor trails. 
o Provide safe connecting routes to open spaces in Belmont. 
o Increase rooftop gardens. 
o Use native and drought tolerant plants in City parks. 
o Not enough parking at Central Park. 
o Beresford Park is too crowded. 
o Reduce the use of artificial chemicals ( fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides) to 
create a more regenerative local ecosystem. 
o Clean up outdoor spaces and waterways.  
o Improve access to creeks and the lagoon. Add benches and trails along the 
lagoon. 
o Educate the community about the benefits of creeks, ex. they provide habitat 
for plants and animals and flood protection. 
o Protect and preserve open space; no mitigation should be allowed. 
o Maintain our natural areas to help protect residents from heat events. 
o Raise our levees to protect the city from sea level rise.  
108 of 317

--- page 109 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 10 
o Encourage solar panels; consider City subsidies. 
o Ban gas leaf blowers to improve air quality and reduce noise. 
o Create an outdoor, dedicated roller skating area. 
o Reduce light pollution. 
Public Services and Facilities Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City should support access to health care facilities, social services, 
and other community health amenities, the top two answers selected by survey 
respondents included: 
o Support efforts to provide the cityБ─≥s fair share of social services. 
o Encourage the expansion of high-quality medical care services. 
Б─╒ 
When asked how the City should maintain adequate water supplies, the top two 
answers selected by survey respondents included: 
o Encourage water efficiency in new developments and existing buildings. 
o Distribute recycled water for non-drinking purposes, such as toilet flushing and 
laundry. 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Provide access to a safe, sustainable and resilient supply of water. 
o Provide for adequate police, fire, and life safety protection. 
o Foster the healthy development and education of children of all abilities, 
incomes, and backgrounds. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Ensure that future growth can be supported by City infrastructure. 
o Make library services more inclusive, dynamic, and reflective of the community. 
o Increase police street patrol to reduce crime. 
o Improve police and fire response times. 
o Maintain police service levels and response times as the population grows. 
o Modernize the fair grounds. 
o Incentivize grey water systems. 
o Maintain the corporation yard in its existing location. 
o Focus water conservation strategies on big water users. 
o Add more lawn removal requirements. 
o Fix water leaks. 
o Expand programs that reimburse homeowners for sewer mainline repairs or 
replacements. 
o Need environmentally safe buildings and infrastructure. 
o Partner with Recology to promote composting/food waste reduction at publicly 
owned apartment complexes. 
o Reduce construction waste. 
109 of 317

--- page 110 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 11 
o Reduce litter on streets, sidewalks, creeks, etc. Add more garbage cans to 
reduce littering. 
o Eliminate street sweeping machines in neighborhoods that do not restrict 
parking for street sweeping. 
o Mirror the San Francisco Б─°Pit StopБ─² program (i.e. public restrooms). 
o Need more support for the homeless. 
o Retain and support healthcare providers and first responders. 
o Establish wellness centers. 
o Parnter with medical companies to promote wellness. 
o Need more dental facilities and discounts for dental service. 
o Increase farmersБ─≥ markets and publicize their availability. 
o Fund healthy school lunches. 
Safety Element 
Б─╒ 
When asked what top goals this element should priortize, the top three goals selected 
by survey respondents included: 
o Maintain adequate safety protection from wildfires. 
o Promote clean energy supply. 
o Develop sea level rise adaptation measures and programs. 
Б─╒ 
Other comments: 
o Ensure that every community has a community center that can serve as a 
cooling center or emergency shelter during extreme and other types of 
disasters. 
o Support emergency prepardness efforts. 
o Continue to manage vegetation to reduce wildfire risks. 
o Trim eucalyptus trees along SR 92 (near Murphy) to reduce wildfire hazards. 
o Create a City program to address trees that pose a wildfire hazard; offer 
financial incentives to remove trees. 
o Ensure that the new wastewater treatment plant incorporates a horizontal 
levee design for resilience to sea level rise. 
o Plan for sea level rise.  
o Consider the limits of our electricy grid when advocating for the use of clean 
energy sources.  
o Quicken the transition to all electric heating and power. 
o Add security cameras in public ares and parks. 
o Move the Energy Supply section to the Public Services and Facilities Element. 
o Create a plan to generate clean electric power. 
o Encourage rooftop solar and electrification. 
Noise Element 
Б─╒ 
Prohbit the use of outdoor equipment on Sundays.  
110 of 317

--- page 111 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 12 
Б─╒ 
Require the use of electric leaf blowers.  
Б─╒ 
Reduce Caltrain and Union Pacific noise. Upgrade Caltrain crossings so no train horn is 
required.  
Б─╒ 
Train warning horn blasts seem excessively loud. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce Caltrain noise by adding greenery along US 101 and SR 92. 
Б─╒ 
Implement a Caltrain quiet zone similar to Atherton. 
Б─╒ 
Caltrain grade separation will help reduce noise. 
Б─╒ 
Improve the sound wall on the west side of US 101. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce the noise level along SR 92; it is too high and constant. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce the use of illegal fireworks.  
Б─╒ 
Establish and enforce a maximum noise limit for vehicles.  
Б─╒ 
Reduce noise pollution from aircraft. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce noice pollution from automobiles and buses. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce traffic noise along El Camino Real. 
Б─╒ 
Require noise and vibration abatement for older, existing buildings that apply for 
rehabilitation/construction permits. 
Б─╒ 
As temperatures rise, consider the influence of AC units and increased noise and 
encourage all passive modes of cooling before mechanical cooling. 
Б─╒ 
Limit the number of contruction projects happening in an area to reduce noise impacts. 
Б─╒ 
Limit street sweeping to 5 am and later in the downtown area. 
Б─╒ 
Ticket loud cars and motorcycles. 
Environmental Justice (covered in multiple elements) 
Environmental justice addresses our living environments, and specifically the health, safety, and 
opportunities available in different communities. The General Plan must include policies and 
actions that will lead to an equitable distribution of resources and opportunities and will reduce 
the impacts of environmental hazards in equity priority communities. Per State law, the General 
PlanБ─≥s environmental justice policies and actions must reflect the needs of the jurisdictionБ─≥s equity 
priority communities. To understand the needs of San MateoБ─≥s equity priority communities, the 
City is holding a series of pop-ups in North Central and North Shoreview. This section summarizes 
input collected through a paper survey about environmental justice topics at the August 23 and 
25, 2022 Video Loco Pop-up (North Central), August 26, 2022 Chavez Market Pop-up (North 
Shoreview), and Rediscover Community Fest Pop-up (Downtown) and at the Spanish language 
workshop on September 10, 2022. The paper survey was available in Spanish, Simplified Chinese, 
and English. City staff collected approximately 91 survey responses at these pop-ups.  
Walking, Biking, and Taking the Bus 
Б─╒ 
Too many homeless people especially on the bus. Provide bicycles to homeless people. 
Б─╒ 
San Mateo has good access to public transit and bike lanes. 
Б─╒ 
Need more frequent bus service to reduce wait times. 
111 of 317

--- page 112 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 13 
Б─╒ 
San Mateo needs BART service. 
Б─╒ 
Establish autonomous transportation in the downtown corridor. 
Б─╒ 
Do not allow cars in the downtown. 
Б─╒ 
Improve bike lanes; it is dangerous and difficult to ride your bike on the road. 
Б─╒ 
Add more bike lanes, but maintain existing parking. 
Б─╒ 
Require helmets on electric scooters. Establish speed limits for electric scooters. 
Б─╒ 
Improve pedestrian access on El Camino Real. 
Б─╒ 
Need to add crosswalks, especially where students take the bus near 2nd Avenue and 
Humboldt Street. 
Б─╒ 
Add more pedestrian crossings along Poplar Avenue; it is very dark in places. 
Б─╒ 
Improve 4th Avenue and Idaho Street. 
Б─╒ 
Improve the sidwalks. 
Б─╒ 
Have accessible ramps at every sidewalk crossing. 
Б─╒ 
Improve the roads. 
Б─╒ 
Reduce traffic speeds. 
Б─╒ 
Parking is an issue.  
Б─╒ 
Reduce car break-ins. 
Б─╒ 
Add more street lighting citywide including along Monte Diablo Avenue and Grant 
Street. 
Access to Healthy Foods 
Б─╒ 
San Mateo has access to healthy food. 
Б─╒ 
One thing that is missing is a large grocery store like Safeway. Safeway is a little bit far 
away. There used to be a Kmart next to Ross but now it is gone. Add a large grocery 
store at the Ross site.  
Б─╒ 
Many people get free, healthy food; there is a lot of support from churches and 
nonprofits.  
Б─╒ 
Add food lockers or refrigerators with free food at local worsjo[ spaces or recreation 
centers. 
Б─╒ 
Improve access to low-cost food. 
Б─╒ 
Improve the food offered at schools; make school food healthier.  
Б─╒ 
Reduce the cost of fresh, healthy food. 
Б─╒ 
Lower income people are in poorer health because they can't afford organic food. 
Б─╒ 
Increase community gardens in San Mateo; convert Fitzgerald Field into a community 
garden. 
Civic Engagement 
Б─╒ 
Make a flyer with tear out phone numbers that people can take with them with 
information about events or where to call if they have a problem or question.  
112 of 317

--- page 113 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 14 
Б─╒ 
These bilingual pop-ups are great. Talk to people where they are; go directly to their 
neighborhoods. 
Б─╒ 
Have meetings and events in parks and sports fields. 
Б─╒ 
Increase advertising of events; increase social media posts. 
Б─╒ 
Need to think about how to engage with people who don't know how to read or write. 
Б─╒ 
Need more community events that are culturally specific.  
Б─╒ 
Have options to participate in many languages; need more Spanish language workshops. 
Б─╒ 
Hold after-work meetings. 
Б─╒ 
Increase the presence of City staff at community events to meet people and learn about 
our communityБ─≥s needs.  
Б─╒ 
Use community groups and other agencies already working in our neighborhoods as 
messengers for City initiatives.  
Б─╒ 
Hold more neighborhood meetings. 
Б─╒ 
Expand advertisements of City Council meetings and make it clear that people can 
provide comments, immigrants don't participate. Let people know that this is the only 
way you get your voice heard.  
Б─╒ 
Translate City Council meetings into multiple languages. 
Б─╒ 
Schedule meetings on alternating days. 
Б─╒ 
Organize and educate the people that live here. Have meetings to orient them on how 
to improve the quality of life. 
Б─╒ 
Send more frequent notices through the mail, television, and radio; educate people 
about what is happening. 
Б─╒ 
Go to schools to provide information. 
Б─╒ 
Enforce compliance with Home for All housing plan. 
Physical Activity and Community Health 
Б─╒ 
San Mateo could use a community health center. 
Б─╒ 
Need more fitness programs, fitness is not a priority for people. 
Б─╒ 
San Mateo needs more gyms.  
Б─╒ 
We need more gym equipment in parks. Especially the type of equipment that suggests 
the number of repetitions to do on each machine.  
Б─╒ 
There are a lot of places outdoors to run and walk; need to improve the promoting the 
availability of these spaces. 
Б─╒ 
Fix the playground slide at the Martin Luther King Park playground. 
Б─╒ 
City should promote or advertise sports events and sponsor events such as races.  
Б─╒ 
Promote physical activities with the support of different agencies. 
Б─╒ 
Offer free classes like Zumba or martial arts in public spaces. 
Б─╒ 
Convert Fitzgerald Field into a multipurpose use including basketball, Tai Chi, and al 
fresco group exercise classes. 
Б─╒ 
We have quite a few parks, trails and fields for sports. 
113 of 317

--- page 114 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 15 
Б─╒ 
Add signage and posters to promote exercise and health. 
Б─╒ 
Need more exercise programs like the City of Burlingame offers. 
Б─╒ 
Need more programs for youth and more space for youth programs; provide funding for 
participation in programs. 
Б─╒ 
There are no opportunities for physical exercise for children with disabilities.  
Б─╒ 
Need more activities for senior citizens, organize and promote programs and short field 
trips for seniors. 
Б─╒ 
Focus on keeping the areas clean. People should not leave their trash everywhere. Clean 
the streets regularly. 
Б─╒ 
Improve public safety.  
Б─╒ 
Increase the height of the freeway sound wall. 
Equitable Access to Public Facilities 
Б─╒ 
There are public services, parks, public restrooms. Very good access to public services 
here. 
Б─╒ 
There are some private places, there should be assistance to pay for the use of private 
spaces and private lessons and classes. Or just don't have any private spaces and make 
everything public. 
Б─╒ 
Provide assistance/financial aid to cover the cost of recreation programs. 
Б─╒ 
All programs in public spaces must be free. 
Б─╒ 
Treat everyone the same. Do not differentiate between people. 
Б─╒ 
Educate people about the public services that are available. Support schools that have 
fewer resources.  
Б─╒ 
Ensure that public programs benefit as many people as possible, not just the same 
families. 
Pollution and Air Quality 
Б─╒ 
There is very little pollution. There are no factories that contaminate the air in this 
neighborhood. 
Б─╒ 
Require a health risk assessment. 
Б─╒ 
There are a lot of electric vehicles here which will help improve air quality.  
Б─╒ 
Electric cars and public transportation are expensive. 
Б─╒ 
Need more electric vehicle charging stations. 
Б─╒ 
Offer low cost public transportation options. 
Б─╒ 
Add housing near jobs so you donБ─≥t have to drive. 
Б─╒ 
Incentivize people to not drive to work. 
Б─╒ 
Do not cut trees. 
Б─╒ 
Provide other options instead of driving. Provide more bike lanes, give drivers an 
incentive for getting electric cars such as rebates. 
Б─╒ 
The City can't really do much for pollution, focus regionally, but the City cannot fix it. 
114 of 317

--- page 115 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 16 
Б─╒ 
What open space and traffic and noise pollution measures can be put in place for North 
Central? 
Б─╒ 
Everybody deserves a piece of open space, fresh air, and nature. Add more open space 
to the affected areas. 
Other Ideas  
Б─╒ 
There is a lot of vandalism and crime. They have tried to rob me in my house. The gangs 
try to steal cars. The most important thing is for people to feel safe in the 
neighborhoods. 
Б─╒ 
Everyone should support each other and help each other out. 
Б─╒ 
More activities to keep children occupied and more investment in public safety. 
Б─╒ 
Schools need more materials, maintenance and resources for the children. They need 
materials such as personal hygiene supplies. There should also be more vigilance and 
security in our schools.  
Б─╒ 
Need a lot more housing. Need to make affordable housing for low-income people. 
Б─╒ 
There is no parking on B Street and downtown at lunchtime. 
Б─╒ 
Have the City approve permits for neighborhood block parties to improve community 
building. 
Б─╒ 
The police need better relationships and to be more present in the community. More 
police are needed but they should be talking to the people and building relationships. 
Б─╒ 
Fix the properties on Norfolk.  
Б─╒ 
Add more neighborhood shops. 
Б─╒ 
Review City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) 
documents for their screening of the needs of lower income areas. 
Other Comments 
Б─╒ 
Consider the cumulative traffic impacts of all the proposed projects within the city. 
Б─╒ 
Do not allow downzoning under the preferred land use scenario. 
Б─╒ 
Apply a Mixed Use High designation at the PS Business Park site in Study Area 8. 
Б─╒ 
I do not support environmental justice. 
Б─╒ 
Need to build new schools to support additional housing growth. 
Б─╒ 
There is not enough water for additional housing growth. 
Б─╒ 
Limit job growth to what is needed for economic health. 
Б─╒ 
Create progress reports every five years to summarize what the City has accomplished 
and identify ways to further meet the General Plan goals. 
 
 
115 of 317

--- page 116 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 17 
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Demographics 
This section summarizes the demographic characteristics of the outreach participants. Of the 644 total 
participants, 264 participants provided voluntary demographic data. The demographic data helps the 
project team determine if the outreach program is reaching the full range of San MateoБ─≥s demographics. 
This data indicates that the outreach program should continue to be refined to increase involvement of 
renters, younger residents, and residents who identify as Asian and Black/African American. A summary 
of the demographics of the outreach participants is presented below.  
How are you affiliated with San Mateo?  
Number of Respondents: 264 
 
 
 
59%
8%
25%
7%
1%
0%
live in San Mateo
Work in San Mateo Live and work in San
Mateo
Visit San Mateo to
shop, dine, etc
I am not connected
to San Mateo
Own property in San
Mateo
116 of 317

--- page 117 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 18 
Which best describes your current housing situation?  
Number of Respondents: 234 
 
 
Owner 
Occupied, 62%
Renter 
Occupied, 33%
Other, 5%
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
Owner 
Occupied
54%
Renter 
Occupied 
46%
City of San Mateo, 2019
117 of 317

--- page 118 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 19 
 
What is your age group?  
Number of Respondents: 246 
 
 
0.8%
4%
26%
44%
26%
Under 18 years
18-24 years
25-40 years
41-64 years
65+ years
27%
17%
15%
13%
12%
15%
0-25 years
25-34 years
35-44 years
45-54 years
55-64 years
65+ years
City of San Mateo, 2019
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants 
118 of 317

--- page 119 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 20 
What is your race or ethnicity? (Check all that apply).  
Number of Respondents: 259 
 
 
 
 
1%
7%
14%
2%
21%
7%
48%
Native American
Other
Asian or Pacific Islander
Black/African American
Latino/Hispanic
Mixed or other
White
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
0%
26%
2%
25%
6%
41%
American Indian or Alaska Native
Asian / API, Non-Hispanic
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latinx
Other Race or Multiple
White, Non-Hispanic
City of San Mateo, 2019
119 of 317

--- page 120 ---
September 19, 2022 | Page 21 
Which best describes your household annual income?  
Number of Respondents: 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15%
13%
17%
54%
Less than $75,000
$75,000-$99,000
$100,000-$149,000
$150,000 or more
Draft Policies and Actions Outreach Participants
19%
10%
5%
16%
50%
Less than $50,000
$50,000-$74,999
$75,000-$99,999
$100,000-$149,999
$150,000 or more
City of San Mateo, 2019
120 of 317

--- page 121 ---
Sent: Saturday, July 16, 2022 9:58 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: To the Council For Monday's City Council Mtg...thanks 
 
Under the preferred general plan, what are you going to do about the traffic that will be 
generated in and through the now planned Б─°land lockedБ─² Hayward Park area? 
  
Railroad tracks on the East and 4 plus story, high density buildings on the North, South and 
West with only two streets  through Hayward Park: Palm Avenue and B Street. 
  
Larry Patterson promised that when Bay Meadows and the TOD overlay was approved, there 
would be no net increase in terms of  traffic on Palm Ave and B St. He said that on the record. 
  
But that is clearly not going to be the case when this GP update is implemented. 
 
Did planning forget to look at these planning issues comprehensively? Or did they just look at 
various sections of  the City, separately - Downtown, El Camino and 92/101, without looking at 
the cumulative impacts that each of those 3 individual high density sections might have on one 
particular neighborhood?   
  
For the GP update, was there cumulative traffic studies done on the impact of high density 
being built on the north, west and south sides of Hayward part or were they just done 
separately on the downtown, El Camino and Hayward Park TOD sections?   
  
The problem is the cumulative impact of each of those separate sections on Hayward Park 
itself. This issue happens nowhere else in the City under the preferred GP update. 
  
I would appreciate your response as to the cumulative traffic impact on Hayward Park, if the 
present preferred GP is passed. 
  
A quick final note, it also seems that youБ─≥re giving up on solar access for a wide swath of 
Hayward Park residents along the El Camino Real. 
  
  
Sincerely Yours, 
  
Laurence Kinsella 
 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
 
121 of 317

--- page 122 ---
From: Gustavo Hornos 
  
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 3:54 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please do not allow Б─°DownzoningБ─² in Zone Study 4  
 
Download full resolution images 
Available until Aug 17, 2022 
 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 
 
We ask for your help in this matter because after reading the StaffБ─≥s suggestions and looking at the zone 
map they prepared for todayБ─≥s Plan Update Meeting  they are proposing to lower our current R4 
Residential Multiple Family Dwelling High Density into a Low/Medium designation. 
 
It is clear to us that even they say otherwise they are still trying to limit and downgrade our block building 
rights while  allowing a huge increase for other properties in the same Downtown area, actually in front of 
our eyes, right in our backyard. 
 
This is happening even after the City Council and the Mayor in person clearly said that Б─°Downzoning" was 
not fair. 
 
We are attaching a picture from our backyard where you will see how the newly approved 5 Story 
MidPeninsula Garage Building is changing completely our view and PDFs of the current San Mateo 
Zoning Plans for you to compare in order to make justice and to exercise fairness. 
 
Attached is also the PDF file with our previous letter regarding a Б─°Request to do not lower our home land 
use zone density categoryБ─² and to be considered as our comments for todayБ─≥s City Council Meeting 
where you will decide about Land Use in San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
Gustavo Hornos and Jesica Salomon 
, San Mateo CA 94402 (between 5th & 9th Avenue) 
 
 
122 of 317

--- page 123 ---


--- page 124 ---


--- page 125 ---


--- page 126 ---
Request to the City Council of San Mateo
To do not lower our home land use zone density category.
606 S Delaware St, San Mateo, CA 94402

April 18, 2022

Dear San Mateo Mayor Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Diane Papan and City Council
Members Joe Goethals, Amourence Lee and Eric Rodriguez.

We are writing to you in regards of the recent General Plan discussions that could
greatly affect our homeowners rights.

We are opposed and concerned about the proposed down zoning to my block, it
could face legal scrutiny and is contrary to our City's stated goals of zoning to meet
our RHNA (Regional Housing Needs Allocation) numbers.

Our property is currently zoned R4 (high density multifamily housing) and the Land
Use Alternatives for Zone 4 all propose down-zoning: the Alternative A is proposing
to change it to a Medium Density and Alternative B and C want to lower it into a
Low Density.

The property is located clearly in the Downtown District and inside the Half Mile
Mass Transit Radius, right where many new tall building constructions is already
happening, so we should be equally treated and our current zoning should not be
lowered.

Our property shown in the map below with an arrow is located at 606 S Delaware St,
between Sth and 7th Ave which is inside the Downtown city limits and referenced as
Study Area 4 for the General Plan Update.

Study Area 4 - Downtown

Alternative A Alternative B Alternative C

126,0f 317
23


--- page 127 ---
We have been engaged and following with interest all the new plans for improvements
for the future of our beloved city where we live and work and we even hosted one of
the first General Plan meetings at our business, the Motion Arts Center dance studio
located at 217 S Claremont St. (which was closed for over a year because of the
pandemic)

When we bought our home in 2013 one very important factor for us to purchase this
specific one was that it was designated as a R4 High Density Zoning. Our reasoning
was that San Mateo will keep growing and eventually we could start building more
square feet of living area since there is always an increasing need for more housing.

The image below (taken from a current San Mateo city land use map) shows with a
star where our property is located and the brown color means that it is a High Density
Multi-Family Zone.

[| Low Density Multi-Family
| Medium Density Multi-Fan
[ High Density Multi-Family

127 of 317


--- page 128 ---
After participating in person and later watching numerous City Council meetings we
saw that the Council was firmly determined to tackle this lack of housing, a goal that it
is also greatly encouraged by the California State Government.

We witness how many new buildings have been approved just in the next two blocks of
our home, like the one at 405 E 4th Ave, where Verkada has it headquarters and the
recently approved Kiku Crossing MidPen Housing just one block from us.

We are very happy that new affordable housing is coming to the city, but unfortunately
the height of the 7 floors of the residences and the 5 Floors of the Garage will greatly
affect our privacy in our backyard, the amount of open view and even the hours of
sunlight that we are used to enjoying everyday.

This view taken from the Online Virtual Tool that the city provides shows our block
hidden behind the possible construction at the San Mateo Lumber ( blue color in the
following picture). In green color is the representation of the Kiku Crossing Garage
while the MidPen Housing is shown in color brown.

San Mateo Land Use Alternatives

s Za SM Lumber Our Home is

Hidden Behind

Study Area 4 (Downtown) - Alternative A

128 of 317


--- page 129 ---
Below is another view from a different angle of our block that shows the near future
and how everything will look when construction is completed. Our property shouldn't
be downzoned with so much construction right in-front of us!

KIKU GARAGE MidPen Housing

ww,

Б─■Б─■Б─■ SM Lumber

Our Home is
Hidden Behind

RawБ─² wee

= &

=.
Б─■

Б─≤

129 of 317


--- page 130 ---
We understand that on top of that it will not be fair at all to us (and to the rest of the
residents in our block) to suffer an unjustified zoning downgrading of our future
building capabilities as it is shown at the moment in the alternatives A, B and C of
Study Area 4, while every other property in our zone is being greatly improved in their
building density zoning.

If any of these proposals are approved by the Council it will inflict a direct economic
harm to the value of our main family asset and that of our S Delaware St. neighbors in
the two blocks between 5th Ave and 9th Ave. The affected properties addresses by
this possible change are: S Delaware St. 500, 504, 512, 514, 518, 522, 600, 604, 606,
610, 622, 626, 702, 706, 710, 714, 718, 720, 724, 800, 804, 810, 814 and 820).

Moreover, our neighbor right behind our backyard is the San Mateo Lumber, which is
sitting in a big lot that could easily be converted in the future into another tall building
that will completely diminish our privacy and quality of life.

As you can see it is very clear to visualize in the previous images that our homes could
be massively shaded by present and future constructions and that at least the Council
should protect our current zone density designation..

Below is a picture of the fence of our backyard recently broken by regular operations
by the lumber yard that unequivocally shows that we are in the Downtown Business
Area after all.

130 of 317


--- page 131 ---
131 of 317


--- page 132 ---
Please make justice and consider this request to ease our situation and just imagine for
a moment how you would personally feel if this ever happened to your home and
property. We believe this zoning downgrading is against the spirit of the General Plan,
it is arguably a policy mistake that did not consider in depth the dynamics of this block
and something that was never proposed at any meeting by any of the San Mateo
neighbors.

We respectfully ask you to keep our block with the zoning that it currently has which is
an R4 High Density Multi-Family one.

At this moment Alternative A is proposing to change it to a Medium Density and
Alternative B and C want to lower it into a Low Density.

The San Mateo City website says that the city is committed to equity but we will not
feel equally treated if our block is the only block in the San Mateo Downtown District
that is lowered when everything else is upgraded and getting ready for more
construction as required and mandated by law.

Sincerely yours,

Gustavo Hornos & Jesica Salomon

GE San Mateo, CA 94402

132 of 317


--- page 133 ---
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 2:59 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc: Bradley Karvasek
Subject: Agenda Item #20: General Plan Update - Land Use Map

Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council:

I am writing on behalf of PS Business Parks (PSBP), the owner of Bayshore
Corporate Commons, located at 1720 South Amphlett Boulevard in San Mateo, CA.

Tonight, you are being asked to confirm the draft land use map and the heights and
densities associated with the land use designations for the CityБ─≥s General Plan Update.
We have been participating in the General Plan Update process this year and have
been very encouraged by the CityБ─≥s willingness to consider designating our site as
Mixed-Use to optimize the opportunity for redevelopment.

We were thankful when both the Planning Commission and City Council agreed that
the Mixed-Use High designation would be appropriate for the CityБ─≥s General Plan
Update environmental review to allow for future flexibility in determining the
appropriate mixes and locations of uses on a redeveloped site.

Last week, we were concerned to see staff's recommendation to split our site between
Mixed-Use Medium and Mixed-Use High. When combined with staff's
recommendation to lower the number of stories, Mixed-Use Medium impacts any
developerБ─≥s ability to build industry standard residential construction - 5 stories of
residential (type III wood construction) over 2 levels of parking. These changes would
make it harder to envision new housing on our site, which is counter to the discussions
we've had regarding providing a pathway to providing more housing.

We appreciate the discussion at the last City Council meeting regarding appropriate
transitions to the nearby residential neighborhood, but that should not split the CEQA
analysis of the site at this stage.

Therefore, we ask that the City Council stay the course with the Mixed-Use High
designation for the site, so that the maximum building intensity can be studied as part
of the General Plan Update and its environmental review. Moving forward, the City
will have many opportunities to weigh in on a project when an application is filedБ─■
for now the Mixed-Use High designation provides flexibility and opportunity.

133 of 317


--- page 134 ---
Thank you for your hard work on this General Plan Update. We appreciate our 
partnership with the City. 
Sincerely, 
Bradley Karvasek 
 
 
 
Bradley Karvasek | Vice President - Senior Development Executive  
2525 152nd Ave NE | Redmond, WA 98052 
T 425.883.1300  C 206.369.1355 
psbusinessparks.com 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
This e-mail may contain confidential or proprietary materials for the sole use 
of the intended recipient. Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others 
is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the 
sender by reply e-mail and delete all copies. 
 
 
134 of 317

--- page 135 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 4:56 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Bob Childs 
Email: 
 
Message: Your mailer on the general plan states "the general plan team will reach out to communities in 
San Mateo where health and well-being are harmed by inequities to ask about the needs and priorities 
of those residents". How about having the general plan team reach out to the communities that are 
paying the bulk of the taxes? We are paying your salary and you should be listening to us, the tax 
payers! Your " Environmental Justice" plan stinks of woke ideology. If you listen to the people who are 
paying the taxes you might actually hear that there are people who do not support these socialist 
programs you are pushing. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 20, 2022 
Time: 11:55 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 
Chrome/103.0.0.0 Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
135 of 317

--- page 136 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 2:30 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Keith 
Email: 
 
Message: Ronald Reagan once said that if fascism ever comes to America it'll come in the name of 
liberalism, (ie. socialism). That's what I see when I hear the terms social justice, environmental justice, 
etc... 
Funding and organizing the radical left wing since day one are the central banking oligarchs. They are 
fascists/neo-feudalists using socialist dupes and socialist policies to consolidate political and economic 
power.  
The central banking oligarchs are implementing their new/one world order agenda at the local, state, 
national and international level using ignorant and corrupt political hacks like the person reading this 
message. 
PS. CO2/plant food does not drive global temperatures, never has, never will. The CO2/plant food scare 
is an oligarch scam. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 9:30 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Android 10; Mobile; rv:91.0) Gecko/91.0 Firefox/91.0 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
136 of 317

--- page 137 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 3:16 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: John Konopka 
Email: 
 
Message: I'm most concerned about global warming and sea level rise. Much of San Mateo lies close to 
sea level. How at risk are we? What can be done? How are we coordinating with other cities bordering 
the Bay? 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 20, 2022 
Time: 10:16 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.5 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
137 of 317

--- page 138 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 12:14 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Sue Papilion 
Email: 
 
Message: Received literature on plan participation which said take survey and I see the survey is over? 
Either I got literature late 7/20/22 or you got your wires crossed. I think far too often committees 
assume everything runs as fast as their decisions and the public is a pain anyway because you only hear 
the negative from them. Well I'd like to be positive about growth and you needed my input as a renter! 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 7:14 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.4 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
138 of 317

--- page 139 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2022 6:14 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: jim tilton 
Email: 
 
Message: It does not matter how much affordable housing you build there will always be a need for 
more. If enough of the elites can not find and hire the help they need to maintain there lawns and teach 
in the schools then the desirability of the are will decrease and people will be able to afford housing. 
Building high density housing on every available inch is clearly not the answer. . . 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 1:13 am 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like 
Gecko) Version/15.5 Safari/605.1.15 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
139 of 317

--- page 140 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 3:47 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Violeta 
Email: 
 
Message: I just got your flyer. While you talk about reshaping the city and talk about development and 
growth -so far IБ─≥ve only seen the co at ruction of offices and housing but have not heard or read 
ANYTHING about building new schools considering the amount of people these new housing will bring 
to the city. Are you going to build new schools? or does development only means property taxes the city 
will collect without considering that more families mean even bigger class sizes in our already crammed 
schools? 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 21, 2022 
Time: 10:47 pm 
Page URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (iPhone; CPU iPhone OS 15_0_2 like Mac OS X) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, 
like Gecko) Version/15.0 Mobile/15E148 Safari/604.1 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
140 of 317

--- page 141 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2022 9:46 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo 
 
Name: Kent Carrillo 
Email: 
 
Message: you guys are ruining San Mateo with the continued construction of more, and more, and more 
high density housing. where is it written that San Mateo needs to be the next New York City? Stop 
already. We dont have enough water now. Where will the water come from for all these hundreds of 
new units? Why is it nobody is talking about that? Just stop. I dont care what the State says. How about 
listening to your residents for a change, especially your long time residents. San Mateo used to be so 
very nice. Now, its pretty much urban sprawl. we dont need it, dont want it. 
 
--- 
 
Date: July 22, 2022 
Time: 4:45 am 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/103.0.0.0 
Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 162.144.147.225 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
141 of 317

--- page 142 ---
From: Frank Markowitz 
  
Sent: Friday, July 29, 2022 3:33 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe 
Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan - support for higher densities, higher building heights, and improved 
bicycle/pedestrian facilties 
 
General Plan Subcommittee - 
 
As a single-family homeowner in the Beresford/Hillsdale area since 2002 (and an experienced 
urban/transportation planner), I commend the City Council for supporting targeted higher 
densities.   Given the severe local jobs/housing imbalance, resulting in teachers and other middle-class 
jobholders unable to afford to live here, it is imperative that more housing be approved, while limiting 
job growth.    
 
I support concentrating housing growth in areas close to public transit and shopping (like near Caltrain 
stations and along El Camino Real) or in areas where the impact on existing neighborhoods will be 
limited (like redeveloping the Campus Drive Peninsula Office Park).  The Measure Y height limit of 55 
feet is far too restrictive, and I support a higher limit, going back to the voters again if needed.  This 
limit is inconsistent with what neighboring cities are approving and a potential impediment to efficient 
development. I strongly support rezoning commercial areas to encourage residential or mixed-use 
redevelopment.  I also support more affordable housing. 
 
There is a recent trend among a number of other cities locally (like South SF, Burlingame, and Redwood 
City)  to support huge biotech development, out of scale with housing growth.  I hope that San Mateo 
will not follow this trend, and job growth should be limited to the amount needed to stay economically 
healthy. 
 
Regarding transportation, I support local proposals, including a bicycle boulevard on Hacienda and 
Mason (with significant traffic calming measures)  and a buffered bike lane on the Alameda.  Pedestrian 
safety improvements and improved street lighting are needed citywide. 
 
Thanks very much. 
 
Frank Markowitz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
142 of 317

--- page 143 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Thursday, August 4, 2022 4:04 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing... 
 
To the members of the general plan:  
 
Yesterday, I called many offices of primary care doctors to seek an appointment since my primary care 
doctor is retiring. I was repeatedly told that the doctor had a full practice and was not accepting new 
patients. The harsh reality that our peninsula has a shortage of primary career doctors amplifies the lack 
of thought and foresight for the needs of our citizens. The irresponsible building of hundreds of affordable 
homes will create a medical catastrophe because of this shortage.  
 
Additionally, each day there are more and more news articles about the water shortage in the West 
because of the historic drought we are experiencing. Imagine the amount of water needed in all of these 
structures that have been and are being built. Where do you plan to obtain this need in order to supply 
the everyday multiple need for water in these homes? Here is a riveting article about this, and sadly you 
continue to build.  
 
The end of snow threatens to upend 76 million American lives 
Disappearing snowpack is accelerating the historic drought across the Western US, and so far government 
responses havenБ─≥t matched the scale of the problem.  
Read in Bloomberg: https://apple.news/AFXdahSKETlSf29wcUCIvQQ 
 
Alarmingly, 
Maureen Zane 
 
143 of 317

--- page 144 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer 
  
Sent: Friday, August 5, 2022 11:39 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comments re Community Design and Historic Preservation; and Conservation, Open 
Space and Recreation 
 
Dear General Plan Community Design and Historic Preservation and Conservation, Open Space and 
Recreation subcommittee,  
 
I am writing to provide comments on the Aug 11 meeting. 
 
I am very glad to see conservation and protecting natural resources as part of the general plan and plans 
to ensure access to nature for all! 
 
Regarding historic preservation, I am so happy to see that alternatives to demolition must be submitted 
for historic buildings. I would encourage the committee to expand this in all cases of construction.  
 
Deconstruction and recycling should be the first option rather than demolition.  
 
According to the EPA, Construction and Demolition debris is the largest source of waste in America, 
more than twice the amount of waste generated by municipal solid waste.  
 
San Mateo is a leader in waste reduction, as with finding reasonable solutions to support businesses 
transitioning to compostable take out containers. Construction and demolition debris must be 
addressed.  
 
US EPA Best Practices for Reducing, Reusing, and Recycling Construction and Demolition Materials  
 
CalRecycle C&D Recycling Tools for Contractors, Local Governments, and Processors 
 
Deconstruction: The Story of Two Homes (video) 
 
Also regarding historic preservation, consider creating education and training programs, like in San 
Antonio, Texas.  
 
Thank you very much for considering my comments.  
 
Best, Kristie Eglsaer  
 
144 of 317

--- page 145 ---
From: Jim Sell 
  
Sent: Monday, August 8, 2022 1:42 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height and Density 
 
Dear Planners, 
Current height, density and parking requirements make it mathematically impossible to build affordable 
housing in San Mateo.  I own two R4 lots in the block adjacent to El Camino and W. 3d, nine years ago I 
had an evaluation done to develop housing on the property .  The study projected that 22 two bedroom 
units would need to sell for 1.5 to 1.8 million and take 3 to 4 years to complete.  Our zoning laws make it 
affordably impossible West of El Camino. 
Jim Sell 
650 465 1569 
 
Virus-free. www.avast.com  
 
 
145 of 317

--- page 146 ---
From: zorigt@gmail.com 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 9, 2022 8:33 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment on Caltrain Noise 
 
I am a registered voter in San Mateo City. I would like to suggest San Mateo City should implement 
Caltrain quiet zone similar to Atherton. Especially in downtown San Mateo area, the trains blast their 
horns nonstop all through the downtown area since there are so many railroad crossings. It's disruptive 
to residents and businesses in the affected areas. For example: trains run from 5am - past midnight, how 
does one get restful sleep. It's a non-stop alarm clock. Maybe start with a pilot program on 9th St 
railroad crossing.  
 
https://www.ci.atherton.ca.us/456/Quiet-Zone 
 
At 12:01 AM on Monday, June 13, 2016, the Atherton Fair Oaks Q uiet Zone was officially 
established by the Town of Atherton. Railroad Q uiet Zones can be established based on 
criteria outlined in the Final Rule on Use of Locomotive Horns at Highway-Rail Grade 
Crossings (Final Rule), which was made effective on June 24, 2005 by the Federal 
Railroad Administration (FRA) and amended on August 17, 2006. 
 
Thanks for the consideration, 
Zorigt Bazarragchaa 
 
146 of 317

--- page 147 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
RECOMMENDED ALTERNATIVE  
HISTORIC RESOURCES ELEMENT 
GENERAL PLAN 2040 
HISTORIC RESOURCES  
The Historic Resources component of the General Plan confirms the CityБ─≥s 
commitment to the protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of historic 
resources as economic, cultural, and aesthetic benefits to the City of San Mateo. 
GOALS 
GOAL CD-3.1 Identify and preserve historic, architectural and cultural resources, 
including individual properties, districts and sites, to maintain San MateoБ─≥s sense of 
place and special identity, and to enrich our understanding of the cityБ─≥s history and 
continuity with the past.  
GOAL CD-3.2 Use historic preservation principles as an equal component in the 
planning and development process. Fully integrate the consideration of historic, 
architectural and cultural resources as a major aspect of the City's planning, permitting 
and development activities. 
GOAL CD-3.3 Ensure compatibility between new development and existing historic, 
architectural and cultural resources.   
POLICIES 
Policy CD-P3.1 Historic Resource Definition. A district, landscape, object, sign, site, 
or structure significant in American archeology, architecture, culture, engineering, or 
history that is either designated or eligible for designation under city, state, or national 
criteria. 
Policy CD-P3.2 Historic Preservation. Identify and preserve historic buildings, 
districts and sites, unless proven not feasible.   
Policy CD-P3.3 Demolition. The City shall consider demolition of historic resources as 
a last resort, to be permitted only if rehabilitation of the resource is not feasible, 
demolition is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, or the 
public benefits outweigh the loss of the historic resource. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
1 of 3
147 of 317

--- page 148 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Policy CD-P3.4 Historic Districts. Actively identify and protect concentrations of 
buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere 
of exceptional architectural interest or integrity, when they meet national, state or local 
criteria.  
Policy CD-P3.5 Downtown Historic District. Maintain the identified historic district 
along portions of 3rd Avenue and B Street, and continue to implement regulations to 
protect the overall historic and architectural character and integrity of the area.б═ 
Policy CD-P3.6 Scale and Character of New Construction in Historic Districts. 
Promote an architecturally sensitive approach to new construction in Historic districts. 
Demonstrate the proposed projectБ─≥s contextual relationship with land uses and 
patterns, spatial organization, visual relationships, cultural and historic values, and 
relationships in height, massing, modulation, and materials. 
Policy CD-P3.7 Downtown Building Heights.б═Relate the height of new buildings to 
the pattern of downtown and to the character of existing and proposed development. 
New development shall be encouraged to step down towards some existing buildings 
in order to be compatible with the pattern of Downtown. 
Policy CD-P3.8 Historic Surveys and Context Statements. For areas that have not 
been surveyed, the City shall seek funding to prepare new historic context surveys. In 
these surveys, the potential eligibility of all properties 45 years and older for listing in 
National, California or local registers shall be evaluated. 
Policy CD-P3.9 Historic Structure Renovation, Rehabilitation, and Adaptive 
Reuse. Promote the renovation and rehabilitation of historic structures that conforms 
to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for 
Rehabilitating Historic Structures and the California Historical Building Code and 
prioritize historic structures for available rehabilitation funds.  
Policy CD-P3.10 Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the 
City's historic, architectural, cultural and archaeological resources and educate the 
community about how to preserve and improve these resources.  
Policy CD-P3.11 Historic Preservation Funding. Pursue and promote historic 
preservation funding sources to incentivize the protection of historic resources such as 
the California Mills Act Property Tax Abatement Program and Federal Historic 
Preservation Tax Incentives Program.  
 Policy CD-P3.12 Encourage both public and private stewardship of the City's 
historic and cultural resources. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
2 of 3
148 of 317

--- page 149 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
ACTIONS  
Action CD-A3.1 Incorporate preservation as an integral part of the general plan, 
specific plans, environmental processes, planning, permitting, and development 
activities.  
Action CD-A3.2 Historic Resources Survey. Establish and maintain an inventory of 
architecturally, culturally, and historically significant structures, districts and sites. 
Proactively update and maintain an up-to-date historic resources inventory.  Actively 
seek funding opportunities to update the historic survey.  
Action CD-A3.3 Historic Preservation Ordinance. Update and maintain the CityБ─≥s 
Historic Preservation Ordinance to be consistent with State and Federal standards and 
guidelines, and to support local historic preservation objectives.  Incorporate zoning 
tools such as Historic Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZs) and conservation districts. 
Action CD-A3.4 Historic Design Standards. Create objective design standards for 
development within commercial and residential historic districts and adjacent 
properties, to maintain the historic character of these resources. Revise the Downtown 
and Historic District Design Standards to give consideration to new development within 
a historic preservation context.   
Action CD-A3.5 Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives 
to full demolition on how to preserve a historic building as part of any planning 
application and implement methods of preservation unless health and safety 
requirements cannot be met. 
Action CD-A3.6 Encourage and assist owners of historically significant buildings 
in finding ways to adapt and rehabilitate these buildings, including participation in state 
and federal tax relief programs. 
Action CD-A3.7 Streamline, to the maximum extent feasible, any future processes for 
design review of historic structures to eliminate unnecessary delay and uncertainty for 
the applicant and to encourage historic preservation. 
Action CD-A3.8 Preservation Incentives. Create incentives to preserve historic and 
cultural resources such as reducing parking requirements, allowing a flexible use, or 
establishing a transfer of development rights program.  
Action CD-A3.9 Create incentives to encourage salvage and reuse of discarded 
historic building materials. 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance (smheritage.org) 
3 of 3
149 of 317

--- page 150 ---
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
 
 
 
б═
Augustб═11,б═2022б═
Mr.б═Zacharyб═Dahl,б═Deputyб═Directorб═
VIAб═EMAILб═
Generalб═Planб═Subcommitteeб═
Communityб═Developmentб═Departmentб═
Cityб═ofб═Sanб═Mateoб═
330б═Westб═20thб═Avenueб═
Sanб═Mateo,б═Californiaб═94403б═
б═
Dearб═Mr.б═Dahlб═andб═Generalб═Planб═Subcommitteeб═Members:б═б═
Thankб═youб═forб═theб═opportunityб═toб═provideб═commentsб═regardingб═theб═proposedб═5.б═Communityб═
Designб═andб═Historicб═Resourcesб═Elementб═ofб═theб═2040б═Generalб═Plan.б═Theб═Sanб═Mateoб═Heritageб═Allianceб═
(SMHA)б═submittedб═suggestedб═revisedб═policiesб═yesterday.б═Itб═isб═especiallyб═importantб═toб═includeб═
theб═initialб═discussionб═ofб═Principles.б═Weб═supportб═theб═SMHAб═revisionsб═toб═theб═CityБ─≥sб═document.б═б═
Theб═commentsб═belowб═referenceб═theб═Policiesб═andб═Actionsб═inб═theб═CityБ─≥sб═Goals,б═Policies,б═andб═
Actionsб═toб═emphasizeб═certainб═points.б═б═
NATURAL LANDSCAPES AND THE URBAN FOREST 
Policy CD-P2.3 
New Development Requirements.  
Addб═protectionб═ofб═treeб═rootsб═toб═theб═policyб═toб═protectб═theб═healthб═ofб═theб═treesб═duringб═construction.б═
Damageб═toб═rootsб═canб═beб═fatalб═toб═trees.б═
Б─°Requireб═theб═protectionб═ofб═treesб═andб═theirб═rootsб═duringб═constructionб═activity;б═Б─іБ─²б═
HISTORIC RESOURCES 
Pleaseб═replaceб═theseб═goals,б═policies,б═andб═actionsб═withб═thoseб═presentedб═byб═theб═Sanб═Mateoб═Heritageб═
Allianceб═(submittedб═Augustб═10,б═2022).б═
Policies 
Policyб═CDБ─░P3.1б═Historicб═Preservation.б═Thisб═shouldб═beб═aб═policyб═toб═identifyб═andб═preserveб═
resources.б═Theб═Cityб═mustб═followб═theб═law,б═notб═justб═Б─°whereб═feasible.Б─²б═
Policyб═CDБ─░P3.2б═Historicб═Districts.б═Insertб═Б─°Identifyб═andБ─²б═atб═theб═beginningб═ofб═theб═policy.б═Theб═Cityб═
isб═currentlyб═notб═conductingб═adequateб═reviewб═orб═protectionб═ofб═historicб═districtб═mustб═followб═theб═
directionб═ofб═theб═Stateб═Historicб═Preservationб═office,б═whichб═states:б═
150 of 317

--- page 151 ---
Mr. Zachary Dahl 
General Plan Subcommittee 
August 11, 2022 
Page 2 
 
 
Local government surveys should consider the presence of potential historic districts 
which may be eligible for national, state or local designation or may warrant special 
consideration in local planning such as the development of design guidelines, historical 
preservation overlay zones (HPOZs), conservation zones, or review by a historic 
preservation commission prior to granting permits for demolitions or other actions which 
could alter or destroy district contributors. 
Stateб═Historicб═Preservationб═Officeб═websiteб═б═https://ohp.parks.ca.gov/?page id=23317б═б═
Policyб═CDБ─░P3.7б═Demolitionб═Alternatives.б═Thisб═policyб═isб═tooб═narrowlyб═definedб═toб═beб═onlyб═
Nationalб═RegisterБ─░eligibleб═resourcesб═Thisб═policyб═shouldб═applyб═toб═allб═preБ─░warб═structuresб═toб═
preserveб═theб═integrityб═ofб═ourб═neighborhoods,б═minimizeб═wasteб═divertedб═toб═aб═landfill,б═andб═fosterб═
sustainableб═development.б═
Actions 
Actionб═CDБ─░A3.1б═Historicб═Buildingб═Survey.б═Thisб═actionб═shouldб═addressб═historicб═districtsб═asб═wellб═
asб═buildingsб═andб═sites.б═Б─°Establishб═andб═maintainб═anб═inventoryб═ofб═architecturally,б═culturally,б═andб═
historicallyб═significantб═structures,б═andб═sites,б═andб═districts.б═
Actionб═CDБ─░A3.2б═Historicб═Preservationб═Ordinance.б═Updateб═andб═maintainб═theб═CityБ─≥sб═Historicб═
Preservationб═Ordinanceб═toб═beб═consistentб═withб═Stateб═andб═Federalб═standardsб═andб═guidelines,б═andб═toб═
supportб═localб═historicб═preservationб═objectives.б═
Actionб═CDБ─░A3.4б═Historicб═Designб═Standards.б═Createб═objectiveб═designб═standardsб═forб═developmentб═
withinб═historicб═districtsб═orб═andб═adjacentб═toб═historicб═structuresб═and/orб═culturallyб═importantб═sitesб═toб═
maintainб═theб═historicб═characterб═ofб═theseб═resources.б═
Inб═myб═letterб═toб═Zacharyб═Dahlб═ofб═Februaryб═8,б═2022б═regardingб═theб═Generalб═Planб═Noticeб═ofб═
Preparation,б═Iб═requestedб═thatб═theб═Cityб═holdб═aб═Generalб═Planб═EIRб═workshopб═toб═addressб═theб═scope,б═
methodology,б═andб═potentialб═mitigationб═measuresб═forб═theб═historicб═resourcesб═sectionsб═ofб═theб═
Generalб═Planб═andб═EIR.б═Youб═haveб═notб═yetб═respondedб═toб═thisб═requestб═soб═Iб═amб═reiteratingб═theб═requestб═
here.б═
Thankб═youб═forб═yourб═attentionб═toб═theseб═comments.б═б═
Sincerely,б═
Laurie Hietter 
Randy Hietter 
Laurieб═andб═Randyб═Hietterб═
151 of 317

--- page 152 ---
From: Janna Kolodi 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 23, 2022 2:37 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Noise from the rail road 
 
Hello,  
it seems like the issue of the train signal/noise will never be resolved. Can you 
revisit this problem and think better about what can be done to minimize the 
torture? There are a lot of people who are affected, elderly and children included 
who lack sleep and rest because of the noise. My heart goes to the people who live 
in close proximity to the rails and I would be mentally broken from having this 
nuisance 24/7 (except for a few hours at night).  
I hope you will include the conversation (at least) in your plan and will try to imrove 
our lives. 
 
Thank you,  
 
--  
Janna Kolodii 
 
 
152 of 317

--- page 153 ---
Name: Janna Kolodii 
Email: 
 
Message: Infrastructure is important for each city and San Mateo is not an exception. I have recently 
moved to SM from the South Bay and noticed right away how in bad shape the city was, especially North 
San Mateo. Yes, it's an unprivileged people's area and you can see it once you cross the 4th Ave. Roads 
are crumbling, and sidewalks pose immediate hazards. Trash is everywhere and is not being regulated. 
(Owners and landlords must follow the rules and keep their properties and around them neat). I believe 
San Mateo can do better and care about their citizens, and the conditions they live in. Just drive/walk 
along Grant street and you will see the neglect (by the city). It screams "Oh, it will do for them, they are 
used to these conditions". Please change your attitude and make the area as nice as other streets. Thank 
you 
 
--- 
 
Date: August 23, 2022 
Time: 9:30 pm 
Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online/ 
User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) 
Chrome/104.0.0.0 Safari/537.36 
Remote IP: 73.202.225.10 
Powered by: Elementor 
 
153 of 317

--- page 154 ---
From: Khanh Russo <krusso@sff.org>  
Sent: Friday, August 26, 2022 11:48 AM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Aysha Pamukcu <apamukcu@sff.org>; Evita Chц║vez <echavez@sff.org>;
 
Subject: Equity Focused Input for Housing Elements 
 
Dear City of San Mateo: 
  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San MateoБ─≥s housing element. The 
Partnership for the BayБ─≥s Future (Б─°PBFБ─²) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working to 
create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live and 
thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the 
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of 
affordable housing. 
  
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have 
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we hope San Mateo will consider incorporating 
into the new housing element. We are including the following resources for your review and 
consideration: 
Б─╒ a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your 
jurisdiction to consider, 
Б─╒ examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and 
Б─╒ additional links and resources. 
We believe that your current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which we 
applaud. In addition to the attached equitable policy resources, we are offering technical 
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning if your jurisdiction is interested in 
exploring or developing some of these policies even further. If you have any questions, please 
contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird + Driskell (Kristy Wang, 
wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com). We will follow up with 
you shortly to see if we can provide further support.  
  
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San MateoБ─≥s housing element. We 
appreciate all your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents. 
  
Sincerely, 
  
Khanh Russo 
Vice President of Policy and Innovation 
San Francisco Foundation 
  
 
  
 
154 of 317

--- page 155 ---
Khanh Russo 
Vice President of Policy and Innovation 
One Embarcadero Center, Suite 1400 |  San Francisco , CA 94111
T: (415) 733-8570 |  
krusso@sff.org | www.sff.org
Pronouns: He, Him, His
  
 
 Please follow the Partnership for the Bay's Future on Twitter
Facebook 
LinkedIn 
  
 
 
155 of 317

--- page 156 ---
August 24, 2022
Submitted by email to: Planning@sanramon.ca.gov
RE:
San RamonБ─≥s 6th Cycle Housing Element Update
Dear City of San Ramon:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San RamonБ─≥s housing element.
Your work supporting your community to meet its housing needs is critical in addressing the
current housing affordability crisis. We understand that at this moment in the housing element
process, your jurisdiction is waiting for comments from HCD. As such, we request that you
incorporate additional equitable housing policies into your draft housing element during your
next revision. We offer the attached equitable policy resources as well as potential technical
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning (Б─°B+DБ─²) if your jurisdiction is interested
in this level of support.
The Partnership for the BayБ─≥s Future (Б─°PBFБ─²) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working
to create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live
and thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of
affordable housing.
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we request San Ramon incorporate into the
new housing element. In some cases, these are policies that housing element law requires
jurisdictions to address as a potential action or recommendation in their housing elements, but in
other cases, these are suggested policies that we are raising up as PBFБ─≥s equitable planning
priorities. We are including the following resources for your review and consideration:
Б≈▐
a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your
jurisdiction to consider,
Б≈▐
examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and
Б≈▐
additional links and resources.
We believe that San RamonБ─≥s current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which
we applaud. We also believe that all Bay Area communities can take more steps to make their
housing elements more equitable. The attached summaries can be used as resources for staff as
they communicate with both decision makers and the public, and we are happy to provide further
assistance to incorporate these policies into your housing element as well as help draft talking
points that can be tailored for local implementation.
We believe the following policies can play an important role in meeting the requirements of this
housing element and supporting thriving communities, and we request that San Ramon include
them in the next housing element draft:
156 of 317

--- page 157 ---
1. Favorable Zoning and Land Use
Б≈▀
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
Б≈▀
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more places
Б≈▀
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family neighborhoods
Б≈▀
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
Б≈▀
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing middle" housing
2. Accelerating Production Timeframes
Б≈▀
Streamline development approvals and environmental review process for
multifamily housing
Б≈▀
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3. Reducing Construction and Development Costs
Б≈▀
Ensure local requirements are not making development more expensive without
requisite benefits
Б≈▀
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built construction methods
4. Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing revenue for affordable
housing
5. Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
Б≈▀
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
Б≈▀
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6. Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the formation and operation of
community land trusts
7. Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or review/update
inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and commercial linkage fee requirements
8. Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for multifamily housing,
especially in high-opportunity areas
If you have any questions, please contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird +
Driskell (Kristy Wang, wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com).
We will follow up with you shortly to see if we can provide further support, including technical
assistance from the B+D team to further explore some of these policies.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San RamonБ─≥s housing element. We
appreciate your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents.
Sincerely,
Khanh Russo
Vice President of Policy and Innovation
San Francisco Foundation
157 of 317

--- page 158 ---
August 24, 2022
Submitted by email to: Planning@sanramon.ca.gov
RE:
San RamonБ─≥s 6th Cycle Housing Element Update
Dear City of San Ramon:
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the city of San RamonБ─≥s housing element.
Your work supporting your community to meet its housing needs is critical in addressing the
current housing affordability crisis. We understand that at this moment in the housing element
process, your jurisdiction is waiting for comments from HCD. As such, we request that you
incorporate additional equitable housing policies into your draft housing element during your
next revision. We offer the attached equitable policy resources as well as potential technical
assistance from Baird + Driskell Community Planning (Б─°B+DБ─²) if your jurisdiction is interested
in this level of support.
The Partnership for the BayБ─≥s Future (Б─°PBFБ─²) is a public-private-nonprofit partnership working
to create a more livable Bay Area in which diverse people of all walks of life can afford to live
and thrive. To do so, we address the challenges of housing and protecting tenants through the
support of equitable policy change as well as investing in the production and preservation of
affordable housing.
In consultation with government leaders, housing policy experts, and communities, we have
compiled a list of equitable housing priorities that we request San Ramon incorporate into the
new housing element. In some cases, these are policies that housing element law requires
jurisdictions to address as a potential action or recommendation in their housing elements, but in
other cases, these are suggested policies that we are raising up as PBFБ─≥s equitable planning
priorities. We are including the following resources for your review and consideration:
Б≈▐
a slide deck covering each priority policy idea, with template language for your
jurisdiction to consider,
Б≈▐
examples of places where the policy has been adopted, and
Б≈▐
additional links and resources.
We believe that San RamonБ─≥s current efforts already include some of the listed policies, which
we applaud. We also believe that all Bay Area communities can take more steps to make their
housing elements more equitable. The attached summaries can be used as resources for staff as
they communicate with both decision makers and the public, and we are happy to provide further
assistance to incorporate these policies into your housing element as well as help draft talking
points that can be tailored for local implementation.
We believe the following policies can play an important role in meeting the requirements of this
housing element and supporting thriving communities, and we request that San Ramon include
them in the next housing element draft:
158 of 317

--- page 159 ---
1. Favorable Zoning and Land Use
Б≈▀
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
Б≈▀
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more places
Б≈▀
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family neighborhoods
Б≈▀
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
Б≈▀
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing middle" housing
2. Accelerating Production Timeframes
Б≈▀
Streamline development approvals and environmental review process for
multifamily housing
Б≈▀
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3. Reducing Construction and Development Costs
Б≈▀
Ensure local requirements are not making development more expensive without
requisite benefits
Б≈▀
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built construction methods
4. Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing revenue for affordable
housing
5. Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
Б≈▀
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
Б≈▀
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6. Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the formation and operation of
community land trusts
7. Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or review/update
inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and commercial linkage fee requirements
8. Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for multifamily housing,
especially in high-opportunity areas
If you have any questions, please contact me (krusso@sff.org) and our colleagues at Baird +
Driskell (Kristy Wang, wang@bdplanning.com, and Joshua Abrams, abrams@bdplanning.com).
We will follow up with you shortly to see if we can provide further support, including technical
assistance from the B+D team to further explore some of these policies.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide input into San RamonБ─≥s housing element. We
appreciate your efforts to address the housing needs of Bay Area and California residents.
Sincerely,
Khanh Russo
Vice President of Policy and Innovation
San Francisco Foundation
159 of 317

--- page 160 ---
PBFБ─≥s Priorities for 6th Cycle 
Housing Elements
August 2022
160 of 317

--- page 161 ---
Priority Policies and Actions
1.
Favorable Zoning and Land Use
Б─╒
Make multifamily infill easier to develop
Б─╒
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in more 
places
Б─╒
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single-family 
neighborhoods
Б─╒
Provide incentives for affordable housing development
Б─╒
Provide incentives for affordable ADUs and "missing 
middle" housing
2.
Accelerating Production Timeframes
Б─╒
Streamline development approvals and environmental 
review process for multifamily housing
Б─╒
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing
3.
Reducing Construction and Development Costs
Б─╒
Ensure local requirements are not making development 
more expensive without requisite benefits
Б─╒
Actively support the use of modular and factory-built 
construction methods
4.
Providing Financial Subsidies: Generate new or dedicate existing 
revenue for affordable housing
5.
Advocating for Rent Control and Just Cause for Eviction Policies
Б─╒
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies
Б─╒
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies
6.
Advocating for Community Land Trusts (CLTs): Support the 
formation and operation of community land trusts (CLTs)
7.
Advocating for Inclusionary Zoning and Impact Fees: Create or 
review/update inclusionary housing (including in-lieu fees) and 
commercial linkage fee requirements
8.
Inventory of Sites: Ensure that land is equitably zoned for 
multifamily housing, especially in high-opportunity areas
161 of 317

--- page 162 ---
Make multifamily infill easier to develop

Explore the following policies and programs:

ww

Revise development codes: Review multifamily development
standards to allow greater density, including floor area ratio, height
limits, minimum lot or unit sizes, setbacks, lot coverage and/or
allowable dwelling units per acre.

Reduced parking requirements: Adopt policies that reduce parking
minimums, establish parking maximums and encourage other
practices that reduce cost and the amount of space dedicated to
cars.

Eliminate design standards: Eliminate or replace subjective
development and design standards with objective standards that
simplify zoning clearance and improve approval certainty and
timing.

Form-based codes: Establish form-based codes that can be paired
with by-right approvals.

EXAMPLES

San Francisco, Berkeley and San Diego have
eliminated minimum parking requirements in
new housing development. San Francisco also
has parking maximums.

Redwood City's Downtown Precise Plan links
adherence to development standards with a

streamlined approvals process.

162 of 317



--- page 163 ---
Allow, require or encourage multifamily housing in
more places

Explore the following policies and programs:

In mixed-use zones where commercial uses outcompete residential uses,
cities could:

. EXAMPLES
* Change zoning standards: Offer greater FAR, height and other
zoning standards for residential developments in mixed use zones. Redwood City's Mixed-Use Neighborhood
District allows greater height and FAR for

* Encourage mixed-use: Require applicants to build housing when residential-only and mixed-use buildings

applying to build commercial developments in mixed use zones than for commercial-only buildings.

Cities can also ensure their regulations don't preclude the development

of microunits, single room occupancy (SRO) buildings. JU Selo ese uer seul plecillte

regulations to allow for co-living housing
types.

163 of 317



--- page 164 ---
Allow or encourage missing middle housing in single

family neighborhoods

Explore the following policies and programs:

* Rezoning: Rezone in single-family neighborhoods to allow
additional ADUs, duplexes, triplexes and other small-scale

multifamily ("missing middle") housing

* New standards and guidelines: Establish design and development
standards and guidelines that support missing middle housing types

* $B 9 ordinances: Develop local SB 9 implementing ordinances that
encourage and support the creation of small-scale multifamily
housing rather than merely comply with state requirements.

EXAMPLES

Portland has established a strong missing middle
policy, including their Better Housing by Design work,
focused on design guidelines and related zoning code
changes in multi-family zones, and the Residential Infill
Project development standards focused on single
family neighborhoods.

Eugene, Oregon approved Middle Housing Code
Amendments to comply with state law. The

amendments include smaller minimum lot sizes, lot size
reductions for affordable units, parking reductions for
housing built near transit, and other changes.

164 of 317



--- page 165 ---
Provide incentives for affordable housing developme

Explore the following policies and programs:

* Overlay zones: Establish an affordable housing overlay zone to
encourage the production of below-market-rate affordable housing

with targeted incentives or relaxed requirements that go beyond EXAMPLES
state density bonus law Menlo Park's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone
* Incentives for developers: Offer zoning concessions and fee Foster City's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone

exemptions as incentives to developers of multifamily housing
projects which meet [JURISDICTION]'s housing needs, in exchange

Oakley's Affordable Housing Overlay Zone

for an agreement that more than [#%] of the total number of units Sumyvale's waiver of parking requirements
constructed will be affordable to lower-income households Half Moon Bay's waiver of development
standards


--- page 166 ---
Provide incentives for deed-restricted affordable AD

and "missing middle" housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

Lot splits: Allow nonprofits and community land trusts (CLTs) to sell
deed restricted affordable ADUs separately from the main house.

Increase ADUs per lot: Allow nonprofits /CLTs to build two detached,
deed restricted, affordable ADUs per property.

Community partnerships: Develop zoning standards that provide
additional flexibility to nonprofits /CLTs that want to build ADUs,
including 2-story ADUs.

Upzoning partnerships: Allow nonprofits/CLTs to convert single
family homes into deed restricted, affordable duplexes, triplexes or
quads (more permissive than SB 9)

Density bonuses: Develop rules that extend the density bonus to 100
percent affordable projects smaller than 5 units.

EXAMPLES

San Diego allows an extra ADU on a site that has
reached the maximum ADU limit if the extra one is
deed-restricted affordable.

Piedmont has flexibility built into their ADU ordinance

where larger ADUs are permitted if they are deed
restricted affordable for low-income households.

Pasadena incentivizes the creation of ADUs
affordable to Section 8 voucher holders with incomes
below 80% of AMI. The city offers comprehensive
assistance (with financing, designing, permitting, and
constructing) and low-interest construction loans.

LA ADU Accelerator matches homeowners with older
renters, providing landlord support and reliable rent
in return for affordability.

LA Mas's Backyard Homes Project

166 of 317


--- page 167 ---
Streamline development approvals and environment
review process for multifamily housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

In locations that have not yet met their housing targets, SB 35 pairs a
streamlined approval process with objective design standards for infill
projects that provide a certain level of affordability and comply with EXAMPLES

existing residential and mixed-use zoning and other requirements.
J y 4 Redwood City s Downtown Precise Plan

Localities could take it further by: allows for the ministerial approval of certain

multifamily infill projects.
* Establishing by-right zoning and local systems/dedicated staff for

more types of housing beyond SB 35-eligible projects

* Establishing by-right zoning in certain areas or neighborhoods

167 of 317



--- page 168 ---
Streamline permitting process for multifamily housing

Explore the following policies and programs:

Improve application processes: Review application review and
approvals process to identify improvements (convene stakeholders,
hire an outside firm).

Pre-application checks: Establish pre-application checks to ensure
that applications are complete before submission.

One-stop-shops: Establish one-stop-shop permitting process and/or
a single point of contact for coordinating permitting across city
approval functions (e.g., planning, public works, building) from
entitlement application to certificate of occupancy.

Special expedited permits: Establish priority permit processing or
reduced plan check times for specific categories of housing
(ADU/JADUs, multifamily housing, affordable housing, etc.)

EXAMPLES

San Diego has an expedited permitting process for
affordable, infill and sustainable buildings.

Seattle has a expedited approvals program for new
construction projects that meet certain sustainability

requirements.

San Francisco's Mayoral Executive Directives on ADUs
and setting timelines for approvals have sped up
permitting processes by providing a rationale to
create a sense of urgency and focus city staff.

San Jose had "ADU Tuesdays" at the city's permit
counter in order to streamline ADU permit processing.

168 of 317


--- page 169 ---
Ensure local requirements do not make
development more costly without requisite benefits

Explore the following policies and programs:

б╒ Flexible standards: Provide additional
flexibility on development standards, including * EXAMPLES
parking standards, for affordable housing
Half Moon BayБ─≥s zoning code allows for
б╒ Reduce construction costs: Review current flexibility in the application of development

local construction requirements and building standards for affordable housing projects

standards for excessive and costly terms

169 of 317



--- page 170 ---
Actively support the use of modular and factory-
built construction methods
11
Explore the following policies and programs:
Б─╒ Expedited permits: Establish a clear and expedited approval and permitting process for modular 
and manufactured homes.
Б─╒ Pre-fab trainings: Conduct or require a training for building officials and relevant staff to ensure 
they are aware of current state processes and requirements and how they intersect with local 
authority/responsibilities.
170 of 317

--- page 171 ---
Generate new revenue and/or dedicate existing
revenue towards affordable housing

Explore the following policies and programs:
EXAMPLES

In 2016, Santa Clara County voters and Alameda
County voters approved general obligation bonds for

* Explore new or increased taxes: Generate new dedicated
revenue for affordable housing. This could include:

* Sales tax increases affordable housing through Measure A ($950 million
. ae in Santa Clara County) and Measure Al ($580 million
General obligation bonds in Alameda County).

* Transient occupancy taxes
paney In 2018, Oakland voters approved a vacant property

* Parcel taxes tax that generates revenue for homeless services.
e
Head taxes By resolution, San Mateo County's Board of
* Business license (landlord) taxes Supervisors established funding priorities Б─■ including
affordable housing uses Б─■ for 2016's Measure K half-
* Real estate transfer taxes

cent sales tax extension.
* Vacant property and vacancy taxes
In 2012, San Francisco established its Housing Trust
* Prioritize existing revenue: Establish priorities or set-aside existing Fund through a set-aside in the General Fund.

local general funds for affordable housing.


--- page 172 ---
Adopt or update rent stabilization policies

Explore the following policies and programs:

Under California's Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (AB 1482):

* Rent cannot be increased more than 5% + your local CPI (Consumer EXAMPLES

Price Index) OR 10% annually Б─■ whichever of these is lower.
Several Bay Area jurisdictions have rent

Localities could take it further by: stabilization policies that go beyond state law
(such as smaller allowed rent increases),

* Adopting a local ordinance with a smaller allowable annual rent including:

increase * San Francisco

* San Jose

* Adopting a local ordinance that does not sunset in 2030 * Oakland
* Berkeley

Localities could also dedicate funding and resources toward education * East Palo Alto

and enforcement. * Mountain View

* Richmond

172 of 317



--- page 173 ---
Adopt or update just cause eviction policies

Explore the following policies and programs:

CaliforniaБ─≥s Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (AB 1482) limits the reasons for
which tenants can be evicted. This law does not cover all buildings or all
tenants. It expires on Jan. 1, 2030.

Localities could take it further by:
* Applying protections on day 1 of a tenancy (instead of day 365)

* Requiring landlords to have a permit in hand before evicting tenants using
the "substantial remodel" provision

* Passing a local ordinance that is permanent

* Expanding just cause eviction policies to cover new construction, single-
family homes and condominiums

Localities could also dedicate funding and resources toward education and
enforcement.

EXAMPLES

Berkeley, East Palo Alto and Oakland
are some Bay Area jurisdictions that
have existing permanent Just Cause

evictions ordinances.

Most rental units in Oakland and

Richmond are subject to their just
cause eviction ordinances.

173 of 317



--- page 174 ---
Support the formation and operation of community |

trusts (CLTs)

Explore the following policies and programs:

Eligibility: Ensure CLTs are eligible for local housing funding.

Opportunity to Purchase: Establish a right of first offer/refusal that
gives nonprofits /CLTs enhanced ability to buy property

CLT Incubation: Establish an initiative to support the incubation or
creation of a new community land trust. Provide financial support to
CLTs in the early stages of organizational development.

CLT Pipeline Development: Study the feasibility of requiring new
inclusionary ownership units to be stewarded by a CLI.

Extra Flexibility: Give CLTs extra flexibility to develop /steward
ADUs, allowing CLTs to sell ADUs to low-income buyers and giving
CLTs more flexibility with development standards (multiple ADUs, 2-
story ADUs, etc.). See affordable ADU slide

* EXAMPLES

In 2018, New York City funded a citywide
CLT initiative to support the
incubation/expansion of 10 CLTs

Cities like Irvine and Chicago have city

sponsored /chartered CLTs that manage the
affordable ownership stock.

174 of 317



--- page 175 ---
Create or review/update inclusionary housing and
commercial linkage fee requirements

Explore the following policies and programs:

Establish New Inclusionary Requirements: Require the provision of
affordable housing by the private sector through an inclusionary
requirement for market-rate housing (including in-lieu fee options) EXAMPLES

and a commercial linkage fee paid by new commercial Inclusionary housing requirements have been

development. widely, but not universally, adopted by
jurisdictions across the Bay Area.

Regularly Update Inclusionary Requirements: Conduct an

inclusionary housing feasibility study in [20XX] and develop policy San Mateo (city) and Boulder, CO are two

recommendations on inclusionary zoning in [20XX]. examples of small to midsized cities that
have set up strong inclusionary programs that
deliver affordable units and maintain
affordability over time.

175 of 317



--- page 176 ---
Ensure that land is equifably zoned for multifamily
housing, especially in high-opportunity areas

Explore the following policies and programs:

Zoning: Rezone sites for multi-unit housing in high resource areas,

Public Land: Set-aside publicly owned land in high opportunity
areas for housing development.

Affordable Housing Siting Policy: Develop an affordable housing
siting policy to provide affordable housing equitably across a
jurisdiction.

Tax Credit Competitiveness: Conduct an analysis of a jurisdiction's

geography for tax credit amenity scoring,

* Zone more land for multi-family in amenity-rich areas, and do land
assembly /acquisition in places that score highly for tax credits

* Address gaps in communities that do not score highly for tax credit amenities,
especially if they are high resource areas

EXAMPLES

Los Angeles's 6th Cycle housing element includes an
objective to "Increase the utilization of public land _for
affordable housing with particular emphasis in high
resource and gentrifying areas."

Seattle has a development siting policy that seeks to
provide housing opportunities for the lowest-income
and the most vulnerable populations across the city,
including amenity-rich neighborhoods.

San Jose has begun a process to develop an
affordable housing siting process to ensure the city
meets its fair housing and affordable housing goals,
including providing affordable housing in higher-
opportunity neighborhoods.


--- page 177 ---
Other equitable housing policies for further exploration
18
Б─╒ Anti-tenant harassment policies (Oakland and Concord)
Б─╒ Preservation policies including acquisition/rehab models
Б─╒ Transit Oriented Communities (TOC) policies 
Explore the following policies and programs:
177 of 317

--- page 178 ---
baysfuture.org

Б─≤ THE
| BAYБ─≥S
* FUTURE HOME ABOUTUS THEOPPORTUNITY CONNECT WITHUS NEWS

me)
Rat
a b

178 of 317


--- page 179 ---
From: Raayan Zarandian Mohtashemi 
  
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 2:47 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: August 30th Subcommittee Meeting Comments 
 
Dear General Plan Subcommittee, 
Attached are my comments regarding the draft circulation element, along with one comment regarding 
the draft land use element. I have reviewed the draft circulation element, and proposed revised 
language and additional policies and actions throughout the document. Thank you for your review. 
 
Raayan Mohtashemi 
Team Lead, Move San Mateo (Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition San Mateo Local Team) 
 
179 of 317

--- page 180 ---
Dear General Plan Subcommittee, 
Below is my preliminary review of the circulation element (with one comment regarding the land 
use element). One broad comment I would make is that while it is good to recognize the 
importance of multimodal streets, we should, in the general plan, clarify that active 
transportation modes are to be prioritized. 
 
When reviewing the circulation plan, I encourage you to ask: does the policy/program focus on 
one or more of the following? 
1. Increasing active transportation (walking, biking, other micromobility) mode share 
2. Increasing transit mode share 
3. Reducing driving 
4. Making biking or walking safer 
5. Making transit faster/more convenient 
 
Further, some elements that should be included in the plan, in my opinion: 
6. El Camino Road diet, and/or El Camino HOV/bus-only lanes/BRT improvements 
7. Higher standards for bicycle boulevards (not just pavement markings and signage) 
8. Cost of parking better reflecting the negative impacts that cars have on safety and 
livability of cities 
9. A reexamination of the capital programБ─≥s alignment with the general plan goals, policies, 
and actions, and alignment with the state climate action plan for transportation 
infrastructure and other climate goals 
10. Fully funding the re-evaluated capital program 
11. Connecting divided neighborhoods 
a. Put a cap on Highway 101, to replace the freeway with a mixed-use 
neighborhood with abundant housing and open space. 
b. Grade separations, El Camino Real Improvements, and Hwy 92 Improvements 
12. Move away from LOS analysis to determine Б─°feasibilityБ─² of certain active transportation 
improvements 
13. Invest more staff time/bandwidth and funds in active transportation and transit 
improvements as opposed to roadway improvements 
 
Below, please see my specific proposed revision to the goals, policies, and actions listed in the 
draft circulation element. I have bolded/highlighted where I am proposing a revision, and I have 
listed each draft statement as it appears in the draft plan for comparison. 
 
Thank you, 
Raayan Mohtashemi 
 
 
 
180 of 317

--- page 181 ---
Goal C-1: Multimodal Transportation 
Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and 
accessible for all users and that connects the community utilizing all modes of transportation. 
 
Revised language: Б─°Design and implement a multimodal transportation system that prioritizes 
transit and active transportation modes, is sustainable, safe, and accessible for all users, and 
connects the community.Б─² 
 
Policies: 
1. C-P1.1 - Sustainable Transportation: Reduce GHG emissions from transportation by 
increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as walking, bicycling, and 
transit. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Reduce VMT and GHG emissions from transportation by 
increasing mode shares for sustainable travel modes such as active 
transportation and transit modes.Б─² 
2. C-P1.2 - Complete Streets: Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are streets 
designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age 
or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Apply complete streets design standards to future projects 
both in the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are 
streets designed to facilitate safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users 
regardless of age or ability or whether they are walking, bicycling, taking transit, 
or driving. Complete streets standards should clarify that active transportation 
and transit mobility should be prioritized over driving convenience.Б─² 
3. C-P1.3 - Vision Zero: Work towards eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Use 
a safe systems approach for transportation planning, street design, operations, 
emergency response, and maintenance that proactively identifies opportunities to 
improve safety where conflicts between users exist. 
4. C-P1.4 - Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs: Prioritize pedestrian and 
bicycle mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection 
improvements. 
a. Revised language: Prioritize Active Transportation and Transit Mobility Needs 
(Active transportation and transit first policy): Б─°Prioritize active transportation and 
transit mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection 
improvements.Б─² 
5. C-P1.5 - El Camino Real: Prioritize high-capacity travel along El Camino Real 
a. Revised language: Б─°Prioritize high-capacity travel and safety for active 
transportation and transit modes along El Camino RealБ─² 
6. C-P1.6 - Transit-Oriented Development: Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the CityБ─≥s Caltrain stations and transit corridors 
181 of 317

--- page 182 ---
a. Revised language: Б─°Increase access to transit and active transportation options 
by encouraging high density housing-heavy mixed-use transit-oriented 
development near the CityБ─≥s Caltrain stations and transit corridors.Б─² 
7. C-P1.7 - Equitable Multimodal Network: Prioritize new amenities, programs and 
multimodal projects, developed based on community input and data analysis, in San 
MateoБ─≥s disadvantaged neighborhoods 
8. C-P1.8 - New Development Fair Share: Require new developments to pay a 
transportation impact fee to mitigate cumulative transportation impacts 
9. C-P1.9 - Dedication of Right-of-Way for Transportation Improvements: Require 
dedication of needed right-of-way for transportation improvements identified in adopted 
City plans, including pedestrian facilities, bikeways, and trails. 
10. C-P1.10 - Inclusive Outreach: Involve the community in the CityБ─≥s efforts to design and 
implement a multimodal transportation system that is sustainable, safe, and accessible 
for all users. Use outreach and engagement methods that encourage broad 
representation and are culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved 
communities. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A1.1 - Complete Streets Plan: Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the CityБ─≥s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street users of all 
ages and abilities. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Complete and implement the Complete Streets Plan to 
improve the CityБ─≥s circulation network to accommodate the needs of street users 
of all ages and abilities and prioritize active transportation and transit modes.Б─² 
2. C-A1.2 - Vision Zero Plan: Complete and regularly update a Plan that uses a safe 
systems approach to work towards Vision Zero and identifies specific citywide changes 
to policies, practices, funding, and other action items that will reduce speeding, 
collisions, and collision severity. 
3. C-A1.3 - El Camino Real Plan: Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners 
to prepare and implement a plan to accommodate higher capacity and frequency travel 
along El Camino Real, exploring Bus Rapid Transit and other modes of alternative 
transportation. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Collaborate with Caltrans, SamTrans, and other partners to 
prepare and implement a plan to accommodate safer, higher capacity, and 
higher frequency travel along El Camino Real, such as Bus Rapid Transit, bicycle 
facilities, and other modes of alternative transportation.Б─² 
4. C-A1.4 - Safe Routes for Seniors: Develop a Б─°safe routes for seniorsБ─² program to 
promote active transportation connections for seniors in collaboration with seniorsБ─≥ 
organizations. Prioritize improvements for seniors in disadvantaged communities. 
5. C-A1.5 - Data Driven Approach to Project Design and Prioritization: Inform the 
prioritization of improvement projects through the consistent collection and analysis of 
modal activity data which reveals where the highest concentration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
and transit trips occur. 
182 of 317

--- page 183 ---
6. C-A1.6 - Safety Education: Pursue safety education to increase awareness for all street 
users 
7. C-A1.7 - Transportation Funding: Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in these plans. 
a. Revised language: Regularly update adopted City master plans to secure 
reliable, dedicated funding for transportation infrastructure projects identified in 
these plans. 
8. C-A1.8 - Transportation Fees: Adopt and maintain fees and fiscal policies to fund 
circulation improvements and programs equitably and achieve operational goals. 
9. C-A1.9 - Performance and Monitoring: Monitor the CityБ─≥s mode split progress on 
reducing VMT and reducing GHG emissions from VMT, as data is available. 
10. Proposed action: Review projects in the city's capital improvement plan based on their 
alignment with the State Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure and other 
climate goals. Modify projects and/or project list based on recommendations from this 
review. 
11. Proposed action: Establish a realistic, ambitious, time-based goal to fully complete all 
infrastructure projects outlined in the cityБ─≥s revised capital improvement program and 
improvements outlined in other plans. Identify increases in staffing levels needed in 
order to meet that goal. 
 
 
Goal C-2: Transportation Demand Management 
Use transportation demand management (TDM) to reduce the number and length of single-
occupancy vehicle trips and encourage sustainable travel behaviors through policy, zoning 
strategies, and targeted context-appropriate programs and incentives. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P2.1 - TDM Requirements: Require new or existing developments that meet specific 
size, capacity, and/or context conditions to implement TDM strategies. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A2.1 - Implement TDM Ordinance: Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance 
for new developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. Consider 
parking requirement reductions for projects that include TDM measures. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Develop and implement a citywide TDM ordinance for new 
developments with tiered trip reduction and VMT reduction targets and 
monitoring that are consistent with the targets in their relevant area plans. 
Reduce parking requirements for projects that include TDM measures. 
183 of 317

--- page 184 ---
2. C-A2.2 - TDM Education and Outreach: Pursue education for developers and employees 
about programs and strategies to reduce VMT, parking demand, and the resulting 
benefits. 
3. C-A2.3 - Leverage TDM Partnership Opportunities: Work with regional partners to 
identify and fund TDM strategies that can be implemented at new and existing 
developments. 
4. C-A2.4 - Facilitate TDM Services: Facilitate the provision of TDM services to employees 
and residents through development agreements, TMAs, and coordination with regional 
partners. 
5. C-A2.5 - Travel to Schools: Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number of 
students walking or bicycling to school through expanded implementation of Safe Routes 
to School. Prioritize school travel safety improvements in disadvantaged communities. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Reduce private automobile school trips and support student 
health by collaborating with private and public partners to increase the number of 
students getting to school with active transportation or transit through expanded 
implementation of Safe Routes to School. Prioritize school travel safety 
improvements in disadvantaged communities.Б─² 
6. Action C-A2.6 - New Development Shuttle Services: As an option to fulfill TDM 
requirements, encourage new developments to provide shuttle services to and from 
activity centers such as the College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the 
Hillsdale Shopping Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and 
schedules of all riders, including service workers. 
a. Revised language: New Development Shuttle Services and/or Transit 
Supplement: Б─°As an option to fulfill TDM requirements, encourage new 
developments to provide shuttle services to and from activity centers such as the 
College of San Mateo, Caltrain stations, Downtown, or the Hillsdale Shopping 
Center. Shuttle service should accommodate the needs and schedules of all 
riders, including service workers. Alternatively, encourage new developments to 
fund SamTrans transit service in an equal or greater amount as to the cost of 
running shuttle service.Б─² 
7. C-A2.7 - Unbundled Parking: Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs 
of providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by 
unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces. 
a. Б─°Require all residential developments to unbundle the costs of providing 
dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by 
unbundling to be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces in areas with 
high parking demand.Б─² 
8. Proposed Action: Parking cashout and post-tax transit/active transportation benefits: 
Б─°Require all new developments that do not unbundle parking to offer a parking cash-out 
program and to provide a post-tax transit or active transportation equal in value to the 
cost of providing vehicle parking.Б─² 
 
184 of 317

--- page 185 ---
Goal C-3: Pedestrians 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable pedestrian network that provides access to 
community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, shopping and recreation. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P3.1 - Pedestrian Network: Create and maintain a safe, walkable environment in San 
Mateo to increase the number of people who choose to walk. Maintain an updated 
recommended pedestrian network for implementation. 
2. C-P3.2 - Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development: Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in adopted City master 
plans. Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-oriented design to facilitate 
pedestrian path of travel. 
3. C-P3.3 - Right-of-Way Improvements: Require new developments to construct or 
contribute to improvements that enhance the pedestrian experience including human-
scale lighting, streetscaping, and accessible sidewalks. 
4. C-P3.4 - Utility Undergrounding: Require new private development to underground 
utilities adjacent to the site. 
5. Proposed policy: Guarantee safe access to recreational spaces, including but not 
limited to open spaces and car-free streets, for all modes of transportation. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A3.1 - Implement Pedestrian Improvements: Implement goals, programs, and projects 
in the CityБ─≥s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of the 
pedestrian network. 
2. C-A3.2 - Utility Underground Requirements: Amend the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
require new private development to underground utilities on and adjacent to the site and 
to install and maintain signs, streetlights, and street landscaping adjacent to sidewalks. 
3. C-A3.3 - Pedestrian Trails and Routes Awareness: Increase awareness of existing trails 
and routes by working with outside agencies and developers to promote these amenities 
to residents. Continue collaborating with the County on development of the trail network. 
4. C-A3.4 - Access for Users of All Ages and Abilities: Implement the ADA Transition Plan 
and maintain accessible streets and sidewalks. Use industry standards for guidance 
when implementing design standards. 
5. C-A3.5 - Pedestrian Connectivity: Incorporate design for pedestrian connectivity across 
intersections in transportation projects to provide safe interaction with other modes. 
6. C-A3.6 - Safe Routes to School: Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide support 
to increase number of students walking to school. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Fund and implement continuous Safe Routes to School 
engagement with San Mateo elementary, middle, and high schools, and provide 
185 of 317

--- page 186 ---
support to increase the number of students using active transportation or transit 
to get to school.Б─² 
7. C-A3.7 - Downtown Pedestrian Mall: Complete design and fund improvements to fully 
transition B Street between 1st Street and 3rd Street into a pedestrian mall. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Complete design and fund improvements to fully transition 
B Street between 1st Avenue and 3rd Avenue into a pedestrian mall. Extend the 
pedestrian mall to B Street between Baldwin Avenue and 1st Avenue. 
8. Proposed action: Require the safety and quality of sidewalks fronting all properties to 
be assessed at point of sale. Require the existing or new owner to repair the sidewalk if 
minimum safety/quality conditions are not met. Provide exemptions for low income 
individuals from this requirement. Prioritize sidewalk repair program funding for 
historically marginalized/equity priority communities and/or for low income individuals. 
9. Proposed action: Implement bulbouts and daylighting at all intersections to reduce 
crossing distances and improve line of sight, taking into account conflicts with bicycle 
facilities. 
10. Proposed action: Implement lead pedestrian intervals and automatic actuation 
pedestrian signals at all signalized intersections. 
 
Goal C-4: Bicycles and Micromobility 
Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and micromobility network that 
provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, 
shopping, and recreation. 
Revised language: Б─°Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and 
micromobility network that provides access to community destinations such as employment 
centers, transit, schools, shopping, and recreation. Ensure that every street ensures a minimum 
level of safety and falls below a maximum level of traffic stress for bicyclists and other 
micromobility users, depending on roadway characteristics.Б─² 
 
Policies 
1. C-P4.1 - Bicycle Network: Create and maintain a bike-friendly environment in San Mateo 
and increase the number of people who choose to bike. 
2. C-P4.2 - Bicycle Master Plan: Maintain an updated recommended bicycle network for 
implementation in the adopted Bicycle Master Plan and related City plans. 
3. C-P4.3 - First- and Last-Mile Connections: Encourage and facilitate provision of bicycle 
safety and connectivity. 
4. C-P4.4 - Bicycle Related Technology: Explore ways to use technology to improve bicycle 
safety and connectivity. 
5. C-P4.5 Bicycle Improvements: Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience including bike lanes. 
6. C-P4.6 - Coordination with other City Projects: Maximize opportunities to implement 
bicycle facilities through other City of San Mateo projects. 
186 of 317

--- page 187 ---
7. C-P4.7 - Interjurisdiction Coordination: Continue to coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions 
and regional partners in the development of connected bicycle and pedestrian facilities 
and regional trails as identified in adopted City plans. 
8. Proposed policy: Ensure that every street maintains a basic level of safety and falls 
below a maximum level of traffic stress for bicyclists and other micromobility users, 
depending on roadway characteristics. 
9. Proposed policy: Switch parking and bike lanes so that bike lanes are closest to the 
curb, and parking provides a buffer between the vehicle travel lane and the bike lane. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A4.1 - Bicycle Master Plan Implementation: Implement the Bicycle Master PlanБ─≥s 
recommended programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, safe, and 
logical bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. Update the Bicycle 
Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future bicycle and micromobility 
facility needs to support the CityБ─≥s circulation network. Provide an adequate supply of 
short- and long-term bicycle parking to support increased ridership. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Implement the Bicycle Master PlanБ─≥s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully connected, safe, and logical 
bikeway network and coordinate with the countywide system. Update the Bicycle 
Master Plan and related adopted City plans to reflect future bicycle and 
micromobility facility needs to support the CityБ─≥s circulation network. Provide an 
adequate supply of short- and long-term bicycle parking, including publicly 
accessible secure and covered bicycle parking, to support increased ridership. 
2. C-A4.2 - Paving Coordination: Coordinate and fund the implementation of bicycle 
facilities identified in the Bicycle Master Plan with the CityБ─≥s paving program. 
3. C-A4.3 - Connectivity Across Freeway Barriers: Conduct feasibility studies and design 
alternatives for overcrossings at US 101 and SR 92 to facilitate connectivity across 
major barriers. 
4. C-A4.4 - Bay Trail: Identify State and County programs to continue pursuing safe 
pedestrian and bicycle access to and extension of the San Francisco Bay Trail through 
coordination with neighboring jurisdictions. 
5. C-A4.5 - Crystal Springs: Pursue safe pedestrian and bicycle access to San Francisco 
Water District lands via Crystal Springs Road through coordination with the Town of 
Hillsborough and with State and County assistance. 
6. C-A4.6 - Bicycle Detection Devices: Install innovative signal modifications on existing 
and planned bikeways to detect bicyclists and micromobility usersБ─≥ presence at 
intersections and facilitate their safe movement through the intersection. 
7. C-A4.7 - Increased Bicycle Capacity on Caltrain and SamTrans: Coordinate with Caltrain 
and SamTrans to support increased bicycle capacity on transit vehicles and to provide 
an adequate supply of secure covered bicycle and micromobility parking at Caltrain 
stations, transit centers, and major bus stops. 
8. Proposed action: Identify and implement dedicated funding sources for bicycle master 
plan implementation 
187 of 317

--- page 188 ---
9. Proposed action: Reconnecting communities: Unite the North Central and Shoreview 
communities by capping hwy 101 from Peninsula Avenue to Highway 92 interchange, 
creating a new neighborhood and safe east-west multimodal connections. 
10. Proposed action: Adopt minimum traffic calming standards for all streets including but 
not limited to modal filters and speed cushions. 
11. Proposed action: Create a modal filter program to restrict cut-through traffic on 
residential streets. 
12. Proposed action: More aggressively pursue a shared micromobility operator, and work 
with the County and region to attract a multi-jurisdictional operator already operating in 
major cities in the region. 
13. Proposed action: Prioritize quick-build projects to more quickly implement infrastructure 
plans. 
 
 
Goal C-5: Transit and Mobility Services 
Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by supporting frequent, reliable, 
cost-efficient, and connected service. 
Revised language: Б─°Make transit a viable and prioritized transportation option for the 
community by supporting frequent, reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service.Б─² 
Policies: 
1. C-P5.1 - Increase Transit Ridership: Work with SamTrans and Caltrain to increase 
transit ridership. 
2. C-P5.2 - Caltrain: Support Caltrain as a critical transit service in the City and Peninsula 
3. C-P5.3 - California High Speed Rail: Support and facilitate local and regional efforts to 
implement High Speed Rail. Work to provide multimodal connections between San 
Mateo and planned High Speed Rail stations. 
4. C-P5.4 - Safety at At-Grade Rail Crossings: Eliminate existing at-grade rail crossings to 
improve safety and local multimodal circulation. 
5. C-P5.5 - Transit Safety: Prioritize improvements to increase safety, access, comfort, and 
educate the public about the benefits of transit use at transit centers and bus stops in 
disadvantaged communities, along commercial corridors, and in dense, mixed-use 
neighborhoods. 
6. C-P5.6 - Transit Access in New Developments: Require new development projects to 
incorporate design elements that facilitate or improve access to public transit. 
7. Proposed Policy: Prioritize transit and active transportation mode travel at intersections 
and on congested roadways. 
Actions 
1. C-A5.1 - Grade Separation Study: Conduct a grade separation feasibility study for all at-
grade rail crossings in San Mateo. Identify funding to complete these grade crossing 
improvements. 
188 of 317

--- page 189 ---
2. C-A5.2 - Transit Experience Improvements: Prioritize installing new transit shelters and 
benches or other seating and an energy-efficient street lighting program at transit stops 
in disadvantaged communities and areas that improve transit access, safety and 
experience. 
3. C-A5.3 - Transit Ridership: Coordinate with SamTrans, Caltrain, and Joint Powers Board 
(JPB) to support implementation of transit improvements, including the following: 
a. Transit priority treatments, such as signal priority, on high frequency transit 
corridors 
b. Extended hours to provide service for shift workers 
c. Bus rapid transit (BRT) in San Mateo 
d. Caltrain modernization, electrification, transit experience improvements, and 
increased service frequency 
e. Support implementation of CaltrainБ─≥s business plan, including increased service 
to San MateoБ─≥s three stations. 
f. Improve Caltrain station access by ensuring sidewalks and bikeways near each 
station are designed to provide safe and convenient access to and from transit 
g. Support regional transit integration and expansion efforts to improve seamless 
access to BART, High Speed Rail, and other regional transit systems 
4. C-A5.4 - Shuttle Programs: Continue to support public shuttle programs connecting to 
Caltrain stations. Work to expand public awareness and access to shuttles and expand 
shuttle service. Support the implementation of publicly accessible private shuttles. 
5. Proposed action: Microtransit: Evaluate cost-benefit ratio of cost to ridership demand 
for microtransit service in lower density portions or equity priority communities in the 
City. 
 
 
Goal C-6: Roadway Improvements 
Achieve a transportation system that accommodates future growth, reduces vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) per capita, and maintains efficient operations for all modes. 
 
Revised language: Б─°Achieve a transportation system that improves user safety, reduces 
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita, and maintains efficient operations for all modes, with 
safety and reduced vehicle speeds prioritized over efficient operations.Б─² 
 
Policies 
1. C-P6.1 - Roadway Operations: Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all 
intersections and all modes within the City. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Maintain acceptable roadway operations for all intersections 
and all modes within the City without adding additional automobile capacity, 
including turn pockets, to the roadway, in alignment with state climate goals.Б─² 
(One more lane wonБ─≥t fix it) 
189 of 317

--- page 190 ---
2. C-P6.2 - Circulation Improvement Plan: Maintain a transportation network that will 
accommodate future growth, reduce VMT per capita, and equitably implement complete 
streets. 
3. C-P6.3 - Local Transportation Analysis: Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the CityБ─≥s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for 
development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on the roadway 
system. 
4. C-P6.4 - Neighborhood Traffic: Implement traffic calming measures on residential streets 
to reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds. 
a. Revised language: Implement traffic calming measures on residential streets to 
reduce the volume of passthrough traffic and vehicular speeds. Such traffic 
calming measures should include, but not be limited to, modal filters, turn 
restrictions, traffic diverters, and speed cushions. 
5. C-P6.5 - Truck Routes: Maintain and update the truck route network to utilize roadways 
that are adequately designed for truck usage and minimize potential conflicts with other 
transportation modes. 
6. C-P6.6 - Capital Improvement Program: Prioritize improvements that increase person 
throughput in project prioritization in order to reduce VMT. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Prioritize improvements that increase person throughput 
without adding automobile capacity to the system in project prioritization in order 
to reduce VMT, in alignment with state climate goals.Б─² 
7. C-P6.7 - Traffic Signal Installation: A warrant analysis may be used to determine the 
need for signalization and shall include consideration of both existing and projected 
traffic and pedestrian volumes, traffic delays and interruptions, collision history, and 
proximity of sensitive land uses, such as schools. A development project may be 
required to fund signalization and maintenance of off-site unsignalized intersections if 
warranted as determined by the appropriate transportation analysis. 
8. Policy C-P6.8 - Emergency Signal Preemption - Require new and upgraded signals to 
include pre-emption for emergency vehicles to maintain and enhance emergency 
response times. 
9. Proposed policy: Take actions to physically reduce the speeds of vehicles on most 
streets in the City to below 25 mph. 
10. Proposed policy: Realign capital improvement program with the state climate action 
plan for transportation infrastructure 
11. Proposed policy: Incentivize the adoption of speed governors. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A6.1 - Multimodal Level of Service Standard - Evaluate and adopt an operational 
metric for all roadway users that accounts for the safe, equitable, and efficient roadway 
access. 
2. C-A6.2 - Prioritization and Timing of Roadway Improvements: Revise the Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) prioritization system to include additional criteria such as: 
potential to reduce vehicle miles traveled (VMT) per capita; proximity to high-injury 
190 of 317

--- page 191 ---
locations identified in the Local Roads Safety Plan; eligibility and availability of grant or 
other funding source; benefit or harm to disadvantaged communities; and correlation 
with the distribution and pace of development, reflecting the degree of need for 
mitigation. 
3. C-A6.3 - Congestion Management: Work with neighboring agencies and regional 
partners, such as the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County 
(C/CAG) to implement traffic management strategies and technologies, such as signal 
coordination, to manage local traffic congestion. 
4. Proposed action: Implement speed governors on the entire non-emergency city fleet so 
that all vehicles in the fleet operate at safer, slower speeds. 
5. Proposed action: Provide a tax break/rebate to owners of vehicles registered to 
residents or employees in San Mateo that use speed governors to incentivize the 
adoption of speed governors. 
 
Goal C-7: Parking Management 
Use parking, enforcement and curb management strategies to effectively administer parking 
supply and maximize utilization of public assets. 
 
Policies 
1. C-P7.1 - Parking Management: Manage parking through appropriate pricing, 
enforcement, and other strategies to support economic growth and vitality, transportation 
equity, and environmental sustainability. Ensure that the available parking supply is 
utilized at levels that meet ongoing needs without inducing additional demand or 
hindering future development. 
2. C-P7.2 - Shared parking: Encourage new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing parking 
supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and encourage Б─°park onceБ─² 
behavior in commercial areas. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Require new and existing developments, especially those in 
mixed-use districts, to share parking between uses to maximize the existing 
parking supply, minimize the amount of new parking construction, and encourage 
Б─°park onceБ─² behavior in commercial areas.Б─² 
3. C-P7.3 - Public Parking: Maximize opportunities to expand the availability of existing 
parking by supporting the use of public/shared parking at private developments, 
discouraging reserved parking at new developments, providing incentives for 
developments to include shared/public parking, and allowing developers to fund public 
parking in-lieu of meeting parking demand/requirements on site. 
4. C-P7.4 - Bicycle Parking: Require the provision of bicycle parking as part of new private 
developments. 
5. C-P7.5 Curbside Management: Manage the supply and utilization of the curb to maintain 
an optimal balance between mobility, storage, placemaking, and loading uses allowing 
191 of 317

--- page 192 ---
for flexibility for adaptive re-use, safety improvements, and activation of curb space 
whenever possible. 
6. C-P7.6 - Loading Areas in New Developments: Require adequate off-street loading in 
new development. Consider shared loading where feasible. 
 
Actions 
1. C-A7.1 Parking Maximums: Amend the zoning ordinance to replace parking minimums 
with parking maximums to allow developers and the City the flexibility to provide parking 
at levels that encourage desired development and are appropriate to the conditions of 
the development and its context. 
2. C-A7.2 - Parking Management Strategies: Deploy enhanced parking management 
strategies, parking enforcement, and evaluate dynamic parking pricing strategies that 
fluctuate based on peak parking and/or district level parking demands. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Deploy enhanced parking management strategies, parking 
enforcement, and implement dynamic parking pricing strategies that fluctuate 
based on peak parking and/or district level parking demands.Б─² 
3. C-A7.3 - Curbside Management Strategies: Evaluate and implement curb management 
strategies such as incentivizing or discouraging certain types of trips, mode choices, and 
behaviors in favor of broader mobility goals. 
4. C-A7.4 - Emerging Technology for Curbside Management: Evaluate and implement 
performance monitoring and evaluation systems, such as digitization of curbside assets, 
to dynamically manage evolving curbside demands. 
5. C-A7.5 - Truck Loading: Evaluate and implement ways to reduce conflicts between truck 
loading and pedestrian, bicycle, and transit networks. 
6. C-A7.6 - Public Bicycle Parking: Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City facilities, 
and transit facilities. 
a. Revised language: Б─°Install safe, useful, and convenient short and long-term 
bicycle parking facilities in the public right-of-way or near key destinations, City 
facilities, and transit facilities. Also install secure, covered, bicycle parking near 
key destinations, City facilities, and transit facilities.Б─² 
7. C-A7.7 - Mechanical Parking Lift: Adopt and maintain an updated mechanical parking lift 
code or policy 
 
Goal C-8: Future Mobility and Technology 
Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership framework that flexibly 
encourages emerging transportation technologies in service of City and community goals. 
 
192 of 317

--- page 193 ---
Policies: 
1. C-P8.1 - Emerging Technologies: Monitor, evaluate, test, and implement new 
technologies that expand options for safe and efficient trip making. 
2. C-P8.2 - Equitable Mobility Options: Prioritize the needs and perspectives of residents of 
disadvantaged communities, those who speak limited English, and low-income, senior, 
and disabled travelers in the design, deployment, and management of new mobility 
services and technologies. 
3. C-P8.3 - Mobility Data: Leverage mobility data to support new policies, investments, and 
programmatic actions in service of City goals. 
 
Actions: 
1. C-A8.1 - Umbrella Regulations for Modern Mobility: Develop comprehensive regulations 
and infrastructure standards that are not exclusive to specific service providers and that 
support a spectrum of digital information, micromobility services, and connected and 
autonomous vehicles. 
2. C-A8.2 - Strategic Partnerships and Pilots: Create strategic partnerships and pilots with 
the mobility industry and community organizations that increase mobility options for San 
Mateans. 
3. C-A8.3 - Future-Ready Infrastructure: Establish public realm policies and tools that 
reflect San MateoБ─≥s goals and priorities in the design and management of streets, curbs, 
sidewalks, and parking facilities to account for emerging mobility trends and changes in 
demand over time. 
4. C-A8.4 - Equitable Mobility Technology: Develop an equitable mobility policy and data 
sharing requirements for vendors to ensure equitable deployment of emerging mobility 
options with consideration of residents who may be digitally challenged. 
5. C-A8.5 - Intelligent Transportation Systems: Evaluate and deploy Intelligent 
Transportation Systems (ITS) measures to efficiently manage traffic operations and 
incident response, enhance transit service efficiency, and better detect and prioritize the 
travel and safety of people walking and biking. 
 
 
One point about land use: 
Action LU-A8.5 - North Central Plan: Prepare a plan for North Central that addresses the 
communityБ─≥s health and safety needs and improves circulation patterns in the neighborhood 
based on community direction. Balance safety improvements with preserving the existing 
parking supply. 
Proposed revision: Б─°Prepare a plan for North Central that addresses the communityБ─≥s health and 
safety needs and improves circulation patterns in the neighborhood based on community 
direction. Improve safety while optimizing existing parking supply.Б─² 
193 of 317

--- page 194 ---
From: Strive San Mateo <email@strivesanmateo.org>
Sent: Tuesday, August 30, 2022 8:32 PM

To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: New message on Strive San Mateo

Name: Sean Lacson

Email:

Message: Hello, | am a member of Move San Mateo, a sub branch of Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition. | am
also a member of Peninsula For All. My comments are my own.

| recently attended the General Plan Subcommittee Meeting #12 held on 8/30 at 6pm. One of the
subcommittee member's comments was about policy Policy C-P5.1. They asked why it was necessary to
have this goal in the General Plan, as the city cannot do much to increase ridership.

| argue that there are ways the city can create policies in the general plan to help increase ridership and
reduce single occupancy vehicle trips. One way is to create a policy within goal LU-3 to actively find ways
to rezone single family zones in underserved neighborhoods to mixed use zoning. Underserved
communities are often food/service deserts because the nature of single family zoning excludes retail
and services businesses from operating in those areas. By creating diverse zoning in food deserts, the
city can encourage active transportation over vehicle use, and work with transit agencies to expand bus
routes into these neighborhoods.

Additionally, the city can use Policy LU-P14.1 Inter-Agency Cooperation as an example for increasing
transit ridership. The city should create a policy to find ways for Caltrans and and Samtrans to cooperate
with other transit agencies to coordinate schedules and create synergistic transit routes. One example
would be for Caltrans and BART to cooperate more on seamless transfers between stops at the Millbrae
station. Seamless transfers create a positive and realistic alternative to vehicle trips. Another would be
for SamTrans and AC Transit to bring back the Hayward-Hillsdale bus line, but with more frequent trips
to encourage service workers and shoppers alike to use the bus over vehicles for trips across the San
Mateo bridge.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Best,
Sean Lacson

Date: August 31, 2022

Time: 3:31 am

Page URL: https://strivesanmateo.org/participate-online

User Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko)
Chrome/104.0.5112.102 Safari/537.36

Remote IP: 24.7.20.159

Powered by: Elementor

194 of 317


--- page 195 ---
From: Levaggi, Scott 
  
Sent: Friday, September 2, 2022 9:59 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown SM 
 
Team 
 
Closing down B street is step in right direction.  Now we need to make it look desirable. 
I suggest  
1. Get rid of plastic road blocks and get professional.  That can be raised or lowered below ground 
if needed to have emergency vehicles drive down 
2. 
 
 
 
The City needs to build Б─°CONSISTENTБ─² permanent structures that would still allow for emergency 
vehicles to drive down middle of b street if needed. 
You need to make consistent and classy.  Not fold down table and chairs.  Make it enjoyable to walk the 
street.  Even string Lights from one side of the  
Street to the other (attach to buildings) to create ambiance. 
195 of 317

--- page 196 ---
Pass cost on to landlords as you are giving them increased footage that they did not have beforeБ─і. 
Finally level the street and make it presentableБ─і 
 
 
Thanks for listening  
 
Scott Levaggi 
 
 
196 of 317

--- page 197 ---
This message, and any attachments, is for the intended recipient(s) only, may contain information that is 
privileged, confidential and/or proprietary and subject to important terms and conditions available at 
http://www.bankofamerica.com/emaildisclaimer. If you are not the intended recipient, please delete 
this message. 
 
197 of 317

--- page 198 ---
From: Ken A red 
  
Sent: Monday, September 5, 2022 2:26 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Gita Dev 
; Gladwyn d'Souza 
 
Subject: Fwd: Council Meeting Sept 6, 2022: Sierra Club Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, 
and Actions, July 2022 
 
 
Sent from my iPad 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: Gita Dev <
 
Date: September 5, 2022 at 1:29:22 PM PDT 
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
Cc: Sierra Club Chair Conservation Comm Gladwyn d'Souza 
, Ken A red 
 
Subject: Council Meeting Sept 6, 2022: Sierra Club Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, 
and Actions, July 2022 
  
Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council 
City of San Mateo 
Via email: citycouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions, July 2022 
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the San Mateo City Council and Planning Commission,  
The Sustainable Land Use Committee of the Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra Club (SLU) advocates on 
land use issues in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. Thank you for providing the opportunity for SLU 
to provide input on the Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions, July 2022. 
The overall draft is a good start, but there is still opportunity for improvement.  SLU has previously 
commented on the evolving General Plan (GP) in three major letters (May 13, 2021, February 16, 2022 
and April 26, 2022). We ask that you review those letters as they all make significant comments on the 
GP. In this letter we will highlight the most important themes from our earlier letters, with comments on 
five chapters (2, 3, 4, 6 and 8). The attachment to this letter will comment specifically on the certain 
goals, policies and actions in the draft.  
Major Themes: 
198 of 317

--- page 199 ---
1. The lack of housing, particularly affordable housing, is a major crisis and needs to be strongly 
addressed. Much higher housing density is needed, particularly within бҐ mile of transit. See our 
Guideline for Downtown and Station Area plans 
(https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraclub.org/files/sce-authors/u4142/D-
SAP%20Guidelines%20Rev%2010-14-19.pdf) 
2.  The changes envisioned by the GP need to use this opportunity to green the city. The GP needs 
to pursue Green Streets, more parks/open space, and more pedestrian and bike paths. See our 
Guidelines on Green Streets (https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraclub.org/files/sce-
authors/u4142/Green%20Streets%20Presentation%20-%201-20-21%20DC.pdf) 
3.  The GP needs to more clearly advance concepts to make more neighbors compact and 
walkable. This includes the 15-minute neighborhood and Barcelona Б─°superblocksБ─² concepts. 
4.  Resilience and Sea Level Rise need to be fully planned for and should emphasize nature -based 
approaches for adaptation to rising sea levels and flooding. 
 In the following,  we provide specific comments to the Goals, Policies and Actions. 
We ask that you consider these comments as you refine and finalize the GP. 
Respectfully Yours,  
  
  
 
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-Chair 
Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
 Cc:   James Eggers, Executive Director, Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
Gladwyn dБ─≥Souza, Conservation Chair, Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________-- 
 
199 of 317

--- page 200 ---
SIERRA CLUB specific Comments on Draft General Plan Goals, Policies, and Actions - July 2022 
Below are specific comments on Chapters 2, 3, 4, 6 and 8:  
1. Suggested additions are in italics and bold, suggested deletions are strike through  . 
2. We also list those Policies that we feel are particularly important to include. 
 Chapter 2 Land Use 
1. Make Goal LU-1 much stronger and focused on addressing the housing crisis, Suggested 
rewording; 
 Plan carefully for orderly growth that, with a high degree of certainty, fully provides ample for the 
housing and job opportunities for all citizens, maximizes efficient use of infrastructure, limits 
adverse impacts to the environment and improves social, economic, and health equity. 
2. Modify Policy LU-P1.3 to emphasize housing in mixed use development. Suggested rewording: 
Policy LU-P1.3 Mixed-Use. Encourage mixed-use developments to include a strong residential 
component provide greater proximity between jobs and housing, promote pedestrian activity, and 
reduce traffic congestion. Any office space in Mixed Use should be for local uses, by people in San 
Mateo County and not for corporate offices. 
3. Policy LU-P2.3. Building Height and Density;  
This item was left open for suggestions. Increased density is a way to help assure the needed 
housing gets built and will allow for more walkable communities with amenities nearby. Allowing 
more height is a way to create more open space for green streets, parks, etc.  
Suggested wording: Utilize higher density (e.g., up to 50-200 units per acre) in areas near the train 
stations and along El Camino Real (ECR).  Also allow increased height (6-10 stories) in the areas 
near train stations and along ECR. 
4. Policy LU-P2.4. Building Intensity; 
This item was also left open for suggestions.  But it is not clear what Building Intensity means. 
Perhaps the suggestion above on density and height addresses intensity.  
5. Policy LU-P4.1 Downtown Land Uses. 
This is an important Policy to retain as proposed below: 
 Allow and encourage a wide range of residential, office, medical, dining, entertainment, and retail 
uses downtown, at high intensities and densities, with strong connectivity to the San Mateo Caltrain 
station and other transit. 
200 of 317

--- page 201 ---
6. Action LU-A4.1 Downtown Area Plan.  
This is an important Policy to retain as proposed below: 
Update the Downtown Area Plan to support and strengthen the Downtown as a vibrant and active 
commercial, cultural and social district. The updated Downtown Area Plan shall align with the 
General Plan, integrate recommendations from other concurrent City efforts, focus growth and 
intensity in proximity to the Caltrain station, update parking standards and parking management 
strategies, allow for increased housing units and density, and support high quality pedestrian-
oriented design and architecture. 
7. Goal LU-6 is very important, as are the Policies and Actions below it. All should be retained as 
listed below.  
Goal LU-6: Promote transit -oriented development around Hillsdale Caltrain station 
Policy LU-P6.1 Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan). Implement the 
Corridor Plan to allow, encourage, and provide guidance for the creation of world class transit-
oriented development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale Caltrain station area, while 
maintaining and improving the quality of life for those who already live and work in the area.  
Policy LU-P6.2 Hillsdale Shopping Center. Allow redevelopment of the Hillsdale Shopping Center for 
a mix of uses, including commercial, retail, office, hotel, and residential uses. Require preparation of 
a Master Development Plan to ensure the site is developed comprehensively and provides 
appropriate transitions to the adjacent neighborhoods. 
Action LU-A6.1 Hillsdale Station Area Plan. Update the Hillsdale Station Area Plan to foster higher 
density residential and mixed-use, transit-oriented development that connects to neighborhoods to 
the east and west, improves bicycle and pedestrian circulation and adds park and open space areas. 
8. Modify Goal LU-13 to include seeking to reduce the costs and time to develop affordable 
housing. Suggested changes below: 
Goal LU-13: Maintain Development Review and Building Permit processes that are comprehensive 
and efficient and seek ways to responsibly reduce the costs and time to develop affordable 
housing.  
 Chapter 3: Circulation 
1. Make Policy C-P1.2 to be broader and include Green Streets. Modified below: 
Policy C-P1.2 Complete Streets. Apply complete streets design standards to future projects both in 
the public right-of-way and on private property. Complete streets are streets designed to facilitate 
safe, comfortable, and efficient travel for all users regardless of age or ability or whether they are 
walking, bicycling, taking transit, or driving. Complete streets should include a network of Б─°slow and 
safe streetsБ─² with priority for the safety of pedestrians, bicycles and micromobility, where auto 
201 of 317

--- page 202 ---
traffic is slowed, and which includes green landscaping and shade trees as well as green street 
stormwater infrastructure to reduce runoff and pollution.   
2. Policy C-P1.4, Policy c-P1.6 and Action C-A2.7 are important to implement 
Policy C-P1.4 Prioritize Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility Needs. Prioritize pedestrian and bicycle 
mobility, connectivity, and safety when designing roadway and intersection improvements. Include 
Б─°Vision-ZeroБ─² as a goal to reduce fatalities and accidents with pedestrians and bicyclists. 
Policy C-P1.6 Transit-Oriented Development. Increase access to transit and sustainable 
transportation options by encouraging high density mixed-use transit-oriented development near 
the CityБ─≥s Caltrain stations and transit corridors. 
Action C-A2.7 Unbundled Parking. Encourage residential developments to unbundle the costs of 
providing dedicated parking spaces. Encourage additional parking capacity created by unbundling to 
be reallocated as shared or public parking spaces. 
3. Goals C-3, C-4, C-5 and C-8 as well as Action C-A3.1 are particularly important to implement. 
Goal C-3: Build and maintain a safe, shaded (with street trees), connected, and equitable pedestrian 
network that provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, 
schools, shopping and recreation. 
Goal C-4: Build and maintain a safe, connected, and equitable bicycle and micromobility network 
that provides access to community destinations such as employment centers, transit, schools, 
shopping, and recreation. 
Goal C-5: Make transit a viable transportation option for the community by supporting frequent, 
reliable, cost-efficient, and connected service. 
Goal C-8: Build a values-driven regulatory, management, and partnership framework that flexibly 
encourages emerging transportation technologies in service of City and community goals. 
Action C-A3.1: Implement Pedestrian Improvements. Implement goals, programs, and projects in 
the CityБ─≥s adopted plans that improve the comfort, safety, and connectivity of the pedestrian 
network. 
Chapter 4: Housing- see end of this letter. 
 Chapter 6: Conservation, Open Space, Parks and Recreation 
1. Several Goals are particularly important implement: COS-1, COS-2, COS-3, COS-8, COS-9 
COS-1: Protect and enhance the City's natural resource areas that provide plant and animal habitat 
and benefit human and ecological health and resilience. 
202 of 317

--- page 203 ---
COS-2: Ensure that current and future generations will enjoy the environmental, social, health, and 
economic benefits derived from access to our urban forest, parks and open spaces. 
COS-3: Protect and improve San MateoБ─≥s creeks as valuable habitat, green infrastructure, and 
components of human and environmental health. Provide adequate creek setbacks  given greater 
anticipated storm events as well as sea level rise. 
COS-8: Provide equitable and convenient access to parks, recreational programs, and facilities so 
that all residents experience the benefits of parks and open space on their physical and mental 
health. 
COS-9: Provide the appropriate mix of parks and facilities that balances the needs of active and 
passive facilities, allows formal and informal uses, is accessible for all residents, and meets existing 
and future recreation needs. 
2. Modify Policy COS-P3.5 and COS-P3.6 to strongly encourage the improvement of the creek 
habitats for San Mateo Creek and for Laurel Creek. 
  San Mateo Creek is in an area that is targeted for redevelopment in both the Downtown and 
Shoreview area. Laurel Creek is in the Hilldale redevelopment area. Both are now mostly concrete 
lined ditches. Any development will provide the opportunity to get the creeks back to a natural 
setting and provide the opportunity for plants, fish, insects and animals in the creek and restored 
riparian areas. This would provide new valuable open space and parks for people as well. And this 
will be an educational opportunity for children of San Mateo to see the creek environment in a 
natural setting. See suggested modifications below: 
Policy COS-P3.5 Hydrologic Impacts. Ensure that improvements to creeks and other waterways do 
not cause adverse hydrologic impacts or significantly increase the volume or velocity of flow of the 
subject creek. The priority will be to use nature-based improvements to reduce hydrologic impacts.  
Policy COS-P3.6 New Creekside Development Requirements. Require that new creekside 
development protect and improve setbacks, banks, and waterways adjacent to the development 
project in order to increase flood protection and enhance riparian vegetation and water quality. This 
will be a particular focus for Laurel Creek near Hillsdale Mall and San Mateo Creek in Shoreview 
and Downtown. 
3. Policy COS-P9.2 and COS-P9.3 are particularly important to implement. And allowing higher 
building height well make implementation more likely since more open space will be available.  
Policy COS-P9.2 Acreage Standards. Acquire or accept for dedication two acres of neighborhood and 
community parks per 1,000 residents. 
 Policy COS-P9.3 Walkable Parks and Amenities. Provide accessible public park or other recreational 
opportunities that are within approximately 1/3 of a mile of residents without travel over significant 
barriers. Ideally, one or more of the following amenities should be available: multi-purpose turf 
203 of 317

--- page 204 ---
area, children's play area with pre-school and youth apparatus, seating areas, picnic areas, a 
multiuse court, and an opportunity for passive enjoyment of an aesthetic landscaped space. 
Chapter 8: Safety 
1. Goal S-4 is particularly important implement as are Actions S-A4.5 and S-A4.6. These actions fit 
with the earlier comments to use the redevelopment around Laurel Creek and San Mateo Creek 
to restore natural features that will help protect against sea level rise.  
Goal S-4: Develop regionally coordinated sea level rise adaptation measures and programs. 
 Action S-A4.5 Natural Infrastructure. Use or restore natural features and ecosystem processes 
where feasible and appropriate as a preferred approach to the placement of hard shoreline 
protection when implementing sea level rise adaptation strategies. 
Action S-A4.6 Removal of Hard Infrastructure. Remove existing shoreline or creek bank protective 
devices when the structure(s) requiring protection are redeveloped, removed, or no longer require a 
protective device. 
Chapter 4: Housing: Our letter of April 26th 2022 commented on the draft Housing Element and so our 
comments are still as noted in that letter.  
However, we would like to make some additional suggestions here on possible mechanisms that the 
city could utilize to better assure that more affordable housing will be built: 
1.  Do not upzone and give away any aspects of any revisions to the zoning code by right; but instead 
trade increased zoning density and benefits for significant community benefits - the topmost which 
should be affordable housing.  This can be done by establishing a base density below what is generally 
desired while instituting a local density bonus scheme which encourages zoning increases, and benefits 
above State density bonus law in exchange for substantial community benefits.  This was an effective 
approach in Millbrae during Millbrae's review of the BART Station Area Plan. 
Upzoning by right without any off-setting limitations will only increase the cost of land for both for-profit 
and non-profit developers which will translate into even more expensive housing in residential-zoned 
areas.  
2. Do not establish specific maximum density limits for any multi-family residential project, but instead 
let the density of each project be determined by objective design standards using a form-based code 
and vetting and approval of all community benefits proposed by the developer. This allows for a wider 
variety of unit types from micro-units and SROs to family and luxury units. It also allows for greater 
flexibility in determining the most valuable community benefits.  
3. Require all new office building and R&D developers to present a plan to the city indicating how the 
developer will aid the city in supporting the amount of new housing construction needed to house any 
net increase in new employees.  This could be in the form of substantial financial set asides for new 
204 of 317

--- page 205 ---
housing, or actually building enough new housing on or off-site, but the goal must be to strive for a 
reasonable jobs / housing balance within the city.  ItБ─≥s important to link commercial development to the 
jobs/housing balance because, too often, cities accept in lieu fees or on or off-site new housing off-sets 
that are far too small to meet the anticipated need.   
4. 4. Add Transfer of Development Rights to the toolkit: Climate change is accelerating the 
displacement of people due to sea level rise flooding, wildfires, water availability, and extreme 
heat. Consider using Transfer Of Development Rights similar to the Syufi Theater site, East of 
101,  in Redwood City to increase density in safer receiving locations like downtown and reclaim 
land from sending areas for creating restored ecosystem to buffer the force of flooding with 
landward migrating wetlands and to reduce the risk of wildfire with rehydrated landscapes. 
Though FEMA picks up all liability from continuing to flood and burn out residents, planning for 
impacts, can return positive economic benefits to the city from resilient development, safety, 
and reduced disaster mitigation.  
5. 5Consider micro grids as a resilient Community Benefit: Climate change is increasing health 
impacts to vulnerable populations with smoke intensity, power safety shutdowns, and extreme 
heat and water cutbacks requiring alternative power and water. Consider encouraging housing 
that incorporates energy, waste, and water microgrids, that can provide resilient shared 
resources in the face of increasing health impacts and function within local distributed grids.  
END 
 
205 of 317

--- page 206 ---
From: Catherine Marreiro 
>  
Sent: Thursday, September 8, 2022 10:25 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: adam.william.nugent@gmail.com; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Letter to the Planning Commission for Sept. 13 General Plan goals discussion (amended) 
 
Dear members of the planning commission and planning staff,  
 
My apologies for a second letter, we realized we had mistakenly listed a couple of people on Claremont 
who actually are on delaware.  
 
The Land Use Alternatives maps were a tremendous undertaking and we appreciate staffБ─≥s efforts in 
creating them. With hundreds of tiny squares on these maps, there may be some missing elements and 
this is where we would like to take the opportunity to address a potential concern with the designation 
for the block at 545 First Ave., the current site of Hassett Hardware. 
 
This site, at the corner of Delaware Street, is where the commercial uses of downtown transition to the 
residential area of North Central San Mateo. The immediate residential uses are mainly single-story 
houses with a few two-story houses. There is also a three-story condominium building on the block. The 
Hassett site, along with the Andrews Building immediately to the north, is currently zoned commercial, 
with a 50-foot cap. 
 
The Land Use Alternatives map designates the section of this block as both mixed-use medium 4-7 
stories next to residential low 1-3 stories on the same block. On paper, the transition may make sense 
since the highest use for residential is 3 levels and lowest use for mixed-use is 4 levels. In reality, 
however, the current conditions are different. The potential jump up to 7 stories, and possibly up to 9 
with state density bonuses from SB 35, means there is a very real possibility that there could be a 9-
story commercial building immediately next to a single-story residence. While that is a worst-case 
scenario, we worry establishing such zoning could make the possibility real as the new property owner 
for the Hassett site has a history of commercial development. If the adjoining Andrews building is 
purchased by this developer, the potential for this rises. 
 
As part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion, we ask that consideration be provided to 
current uses in residential areas and that zoning reflect the need to transition heights into these areas. 
We also ask that zoning on the same block be compatible. 
 
We enjoy having Hassett here and appreciate its convenience and ability to provide jobs for 
neighborhood youth, and would love for it to stay. We could envision a new development with the 
current store returning on the ground floor and up to 3 levels of housing under the current 50-foot cap. 
We also could see a 3-4 level condominium building with limited parking to address this areaБ─≥s need for 
Б─°missing middleБ─² housing that transitions from commercial to residential areas. We also understand that 
a 5-level housing development could be built under the current cap. We are absolutely fine with these 
scenarios to varying degrees. As is typically the case with new development with a significant shift in 
land use, we would hope that there would be some accommodations when possible when it comes to 
setbacks, stepbacks and, when possible, retention of daylight planes. 
 
We understand one of the main goals of the General Plan was to provide areas in which new housing 
could be built to address this areaБ─≥s growing need. We recognize this siteБ─≥s potential for new housing 
206 of 317

--- page 207 ---
and welcome it as high as 50 feet, if done well and with some accommodations, and would prefer it to 
be slightly lower to transition better to the existing North Central neighborhood, which includes the 
cityБ─≥s oldest house directly across the street and a number of unique and interesting single-family homes 
in a traditionally low-income area of the city. 
 
However, we would also like to be treated the same as other areas of the city and other blocks, which 
had accommodations for transitions to neighborhoods. Nowhere else in the city is there the potential 
for a current single-story residential use immediately next to a potential 9-story commercial building in 
any of the Land Use Alternatives map. 
 
To summarize, we would like a goal established that any new zoning remain compatible within the same 
block so that heights stay within 2-3 floors of the current average after any density bonuses, that future 
development transition into established neighborhoods, and that the height for any future development 
on the commercial portion of this block be limited to allow for these two requests. 
 
We are submitting this request as part of the goals section of the General Plan discussion but can also 
submit it during the Land Use Alternatives section when the draft General Plan is discussed next year. If 
there is another time for us to submit this request, or any other action we must take, please let us know. 
 
Thanks again for the effort in creating this plan, receiving our concerns, and making the necessary 
modifications. 
 
Catherine and David Marreiro 
31 S. Claremont St. 
 
Woodrow Andrews 
501 First Ave. (Owner of The Andrews Building) 
 
Yan Li 
26 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jessica Huang 
30 S. Delaware St. 
 
Val Lucero 
34 S. Delaware St. 
 
Jon Mays and Dayna Alpine 
38 S. Delaware St. 
 
John Aikin 
45 S. Delaware St. 
 
George and Olga Derby 
105 Delaware St. 
 
Citania Tam 
619 First Ave. 
207 of 317

--- page 208 ---
Gary and Olivia Edwards 
615 First Ave. 
 
Susan and Wayne Purdom 
61 North Claremont St.  
 
 
 
208 of 317

--- page 209 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Rick Ballard 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 4:00 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan feedback for September 13th meeting 
 
Regarding the draft circulation goals and policies, I am strongly in favor of circulation measures which 
put us on a trajectory to reduce car use in San Mateo over time, improve public transit, and ensure safe 
and welcoming urban design for pedestrian and bicycles. Reducing car use is critical for climate, public 
safety, and public health; the electric transition is required but not sufficient for climate goals and does 
not address the public safety impact of cars. 
 
Regarding policies around historic preservation, I encourage the commission to be mindful to employ 
balanced historic preservation requirements so as not to block much-needed housing and transit-
oriented development. Some neighborhood character (specifically with regard to community density) 
may need to change in order to appropriately add housing throughout the city. Additionally, as the 
owner of a historic house myself which needs work including a foundation replacement, I find the 
current regulations around carefully protecting the facade and public character of the house appropriate 
and not burdensome; but adding new regulations should be done carefully so as not to prevent these 
kinds of important projects. 
 
Regarding noise policies, while community noise levels are important to protect, I would encourage the 
commission to be mindful to structure policy requirements so as to avoid placing an undue burden of 
planning process on housing and transit development, and to avoid providing more avenues for a 
minority of community members to hold up development projects unfairly. But noise levels are an 
important part of community health and should be controlled appropriately. 
 
Regarding the water supply policies PS-A2.1 and PS-A2.2, specific promotion of greywater initiatives 
might be warranted. 
 
Thank you, 
- Rick Ballard 
North-Central San Mateo resident 
 
209 of 317

--- page 210 ---
From: Nancy Cussary 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 5:15 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: general plan comments 
 
September 13, 2022 
 
Hello, 
I have concerns about this statement that appears several times in the 
general plan document: "Use outreach and engagement 
methods that encourage broad representation and are 
culturally sensitive, particularly for historically underserved 
communities". 
 
I think this language needs to be more robust, more resolute, more current, more 
inclusive.  As the statement is currently, it almost seems like an 
afterthought.  Outreach and engagement methods need to not only encourage 
broad representation, they need to include broad representation and hopefully be 
developed by a broad representation.  Further, outreach and engagement methods 
should be more than just culturally sensitive, they should be culturally reflective, 
culturally representative. 
 
Thank you for your Consideration. 
Respectfully, 
 
Nancy Cussary 
Shoreview resident 
 
210 of 317

--- page 211 ---
From: Paul Dagnelie 
  
Sent: Tuesday, September 13, 2022 3:23 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
I would like to advocate the return of increased outdoor seating at restaurants in downtown San Mateo. 
A loss of parking spaces is a small price to pay for a more welcoming and friendly downtown space. 
Combined with investments in transit, and walk- and bikeability of areas around the downtown, the 
reduced parking spaces will not be missed, especially since there is almost always garage space open. 
 
In addition, electric vehicle charging should be a priority. The lack of charging points in existing 
apartment buildings will be a blocker to adoption by renters, and homeowners using street parking are 
also challenged. These issues can be mitigated with ample facilities charging reasonable rates available 
in publicly accessible spaces. Even with improvements to mobility in San Mateo, cars will still be a fact of 
life for many residents for some time to come, and reducing the number of fossil fuel vehicles on the 
road is a priority. 
 
 
Paul Dagnelie 
 
211 of 317

--- page 212 ---
September 6, 2022

Zachary Dahl

Deputy Director

City of San Mateo Community Development
330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403
zdah|@cityofsanmateo.org

RE: Housing Element Sites Inventory: 424 No. San Mateo Drive
Dear Mr. Dahl,

As the property owner of 424 No. San Mateo Drive (APN 032-181-370) and business owner in San
Mateo, | am writing to formally request that the City of San Mateo adjust the currently proposed land
use Designation of Mixed-Use Medium to that of Mixed-Use High as identified in Study Area 5 of the
recent City Council Preferred Scenarios.

This property and the others that make up the intersection of north San Mateo Drive and Poplar Avenue
are ideally situated for the future growth the City wishes to see. Proximity to San MateoБ─≥s growing
Downtown to South, easy access to 101 to the East, and connection to Burlingame to the North, have
and will continue to make this site an ideal location.

My property is currently developed with a medical/office building with underground parking. This site,
and those around it, have the potential to create more commercial space and much needed additional
housing through this adjustment to the proposed land use designation. To provide further context, only
a half block away, the Residential High designation has been identified for several blocks of North San
Mateo Drive. The adjustment of the 424 No. San Mateo Drive parcel to Mixed-Use High would be in
keeping with that same intent.

| thank you in advance for your time reviewing this matter and consideration of this request.
| very much appreciate all the effort that has gone into the General Plan Update process thus far and
look forward to the final steps of environmental review, adoption, and implementation.

212 of 317


--- page 213 ---
From: Keith Weber 
  
Sent: Thursday, September 15, 2022 3:13 PM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Margaret Williams 
<mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning Commission Meeting 9/27/22 
 
Hi Zach, 
Attached please find a pdf of San Mateo Heritage Alliance's Recommended Alternative Historic 
Resources Element, General Plan 2040.  It has been revised since it was submitted to the GP 
Subcommittee. 
 
Please forward to the Planning Commission and include it in the 9/27/22 Planning Commission agenda 
packet. 
 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance was formed in 2022 in response to community concerns about 
losing irreplaceable historic resources and the resulting erosion of neighborhood character and 
sense of place that makes San Mateo the special community we call home.  San Mateo 
Heritage Alliance believes that economic growth and resource protection are not mutually 
exclusive, but partners in a more prosperous future.  We believe it is important to protect our 
heritage as it adds character and distinctiveness to our community and provides a sense of 
identity.  We also believe the only way to ensure that San Mateo lives up to its General Plan 
2040 vision of being a healthy, resilient, vibrant and diverse community, is to grow stronger by 
identifying, protecting and preserving its irreplaceable historic resources. 
 
Thank you, 
Keith Weber for 
San Mateo Heritage Alliance 
 
213 of 317

--- page 214 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
RECOMMENDED ALTERNATIVE  
HISTORIC RESOURCES ELEMENT 
GENERAL PLAN 2040 
HISTORIC RESOURCES  
The Historic Resources component of the General Plan confirms the CityБ─≥s commitment to the 
protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of historic resources as economic, cultural, 
and aesthetic benefits to the City of San Mateo. 
PRESERVATION PRINCIPLES
The goal of historic preservation is to keep properties and places of historic and cultural value 
in active use, accommodating appropriate improvements to sustain their viability while 
maintaining the key character-defining features which contribute to their significance as cultural 
resources. Preservation also seeks to keep cultural resources intact for the benefit of future 
generations. It is an integral component of other community initiatives in neighborhood 
livability, sustainability, economic development, and cultural appreciation. 
GOALS 
GOAL CD-3.2 Use historic preservation principles as an equal component in the planning and 
development process. Fully integrate the consideration of historic, architectural and cultural 
resources as a major aspect of the City's planning, permitting and development activities. 
GOAL CD-3.1 Identify and preserve historic, architectural and cultural resources, including 
individual properties, districts and sites, to maintain San MateoБ─≥s sense of place and special 
identity, and to enrich our understanding of the cityБ─≥s history and continuity with the past.  
GOAL CD-3.3 Ensure compatibility between new development and existing historic, 
architectural and cultural resources. 
DEFINITIONS 
Definitions and interpretations used herein shall be consistent with the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA), the State Historical Building Code, the California Register of Historical 
Resources, the National Register of Historic Places, and the Secretary of the InteriorБ─≥s 
Standards. 
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
1
3
214 of 317

--- page 215 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
POLICIES  
Policy CD-A3.1 Historic Preservation.  Incorporate historic preservation as an integral part 
the general plan, specific plans, environmental processes, planning, permitting, and 
development activities. 
Policy CD-P3.2 Historic Preservation Surveys and Context Statements. Identify and 
preserve historic buildings, districts and sites. Actively identify and protect concentrations of 
buildings which convey the flavor of local historical periods or provide an atmosphere of 
exceptional architectural interest or integrity when they meet national, state or local criteria.  
Policy CD-P3.3 Downtown Historic District. Maintain the identified historic district along 
portions of 3rd Avenue and B Street, and continue to implement regulations to protect the 
overall historic and architectural character and integrity of the area.б═ 
Policy CD-P3.4 Scale, Character and Compatibility. Promote an architecturally sensitive 
approach to new construction in, and adjacent to identified and potentially eligible historic 
districts to ensure compatibility of new and old.  Ensure design compatibility that maintains the 
historic character and integrity of the area.   
Policy CD-A3.5 Consider effects on historic resources. The California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA) requires public agencies to consider the effects of actions on historic resources.  
Under CEQA, a historic resource is any resource that is listed in or determined to be eligible for 
listing in the California Register of Historical Resources.б═Any resource that is eligible for listing 
in the California Register is considered significant for the purposes of CEQA.  The California 
Register of Historical Resources also includes resources listed in or eligible for listing in the 
National Register of Historic Places.  Properties that are designated significant in an adopted 
local survey are also presumed to be eligible for the California Register, and are considered 
significant. 
Policy CD-P3.6 Demolition. The City shall consider demolition of historic resources as a last 
resort, to be permitted only if rehabilitation of the resource is not feasible, demolition is 
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, or the public benefits 
outweigh the loss of the historic resource. 
ACTIONS 
Action CD-A3.1 Historic Context. Structures over 45 years old proposed for substantial 
alteration or demolition shall be evaluated for both individual significance and as contributors 
to an identified or potential historic district. 
Action CD-A3.2 Coordinate and align the general plan, specific plans, zoning code, 
environmental processes, planning, permitting, and development activities to incorporate 
preservation as an integral component in accordance with the principles, goals and policies 
herein. 
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
2
3
215 of 317

--- page 216 ---
SAN MATEO
HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Action CD-A3.3 Public Awareness. Foster public awareness and appreciation of the City's 
historic, architectural, cultural and archaeological resources and educate the community about 
how to preserve and improve these resources.  Increase public appreciation through 
neighborhood workshops, public presentations, interpretive signage, and walking tours. 
Action CD-A3.4 Historic Resources Survey. The City shall establish and maintain an 
inventory of architecturally, culturally, and historically significant structures, districts and sites. 
Proactively update and maintain an up-to-date historic resources inventory. For areas that have 
not been surveyed, the City shall seek funding to prepare new historic context surveys to 
identify structures, districts and sights potentially eligible for listing in the National Register of 
Historic Places, the California Register of Historical Resources, or local register. 
Action CD-A3.5 Design Standards. The City shall use the Secretary of the InteriorБ─≥s Standards 
as the basis for objective design standards for alterations to historic resources and new 
development within and adjacent to commercial and residential historic districts.  Design 
standards shall ensure that proposed new construction projects have a contextual relationship 
with land uses and patterns, spatial organization, visual relationships, cultural and historic 
values, and relationships in height, massing, modulation, and materials 
Action CD-A3.6 Demolition Alternatives. Require an applicant to submit alternatives to full 
demolition on how to preserve a historic building as part of any planning application and 
implement methods of preservation unless health and safety requirements cannot be met.
SMHA (smheritage.org) 8/9/22 (Rev. 9/12/22)
Page  of 
3
3
216 of 317

--- page 217 ---
From: Bill Williams 
  
Sent: Wednesday, September 14, 2022 12:29 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
The City of San Mateo has been paying fines for untreated storm runoff entering the Bay. The 
proposed storm storage system has not been completed. The new sewage plant has not been 
completed. 
 
According to Baykeeper, recent red tides and fish kills were exacerbated by treated sewage 
discharges. 
 
Are we setting the stage for an ecological disaster by planning for 55,000 new residents? 
 
x Bill Williams, San Mateo 
 
217 of 317

--- page 218 ---
MEMORANDUM  
DATE 
August 31, 2022 
TO 
San Mateo Planning Commission 
FROM 
Joanna Jansen and Carey Stone, PlaceWorks 
SUBJECT 
Summary of General Plan Subcommittee Input on the Draft Policies and Actions 
This memorandum summarizes the General Plan Subcommitee (GPS) input on the draft policies 
and actions. The GPS met three times on August 11, 18, and 30, 2022 to review and provide 
feedback on the policies and actions. 
GENERAL COMMENTS 
Б─╒ 
Overall, the GPS felt that the draft goals, polices, and actions are well written and reflect 
community input to date.  
Б─╒ 
Make sure there is deliberate thought given to which policies begin with Б─°continue toБ─² 
versus which ones do not.  
Б─╒ 
Climate change should be featured prominently in the General Plan, and the General 
Plan and the CityБ─≥s Climate Action Plan should align.  
Б─╒ 
Highlight climate change and sustainability similar to how environmental justice policies 
and actions are highlighted, or consider if we should have an Energy and Climate Change 
element.  
COMMUNITY DESIGN AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Aspire to make El Camino Real a space to spend time, not only a space to rush through.  
Б─╒ 
Replace Б─°pedstrian-orientedБ─² with Б─°people-oriented.Б─²  
Б─╒ 
Throughout the design-related policies, shift language to be less subjective and more 
objective.  
Б─╒ 
Include objective standards to preserve historic resources 
Б─╒ 
Add language that emphasizes the importance of keeping architectural details at the 
human-scale. 
Б─╒ 
Acknowledge the important architectural features of traditional pre-war architecture 
that should be carried forward in new development downtown.  
Б─╒ 
Preserving cherished and beautiful historic buildings is important, but historic 
preservation should not be weaponized to prevent homeonwners from upgrading their 
own property or to prevent needed new housing. 
Б─╒ 
Define Б─°characterБ─² to clarify that it refers to visual or architectural rather than social 
characteristics.  
218 of 317

--- page 219 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 2 
Б─╒ 
The General Plan should address historic preservation at a general level of detail and not 
get into the weeds; the Historic Preservation Ordinance and State and federal 
regulations should provide more detail.  
Б─╒ 
Goal CD-2 should reference preserving heritage trees Б─°where feasible.Б─² Sometimes old 
trees are dangerous and need to be removed. Goal CD-2 should also reference median 
trees.  
Б─╒ 
Policies and actions under Goal CD-3 should be broadened to refer to historic Б─°assets,Б─² 
not only buildings, consistent with the wording of the goal. Consider adding policies or 
actions under Goal CD-3 to adopt incentives for property owners to preserve and/or 
restore historic assets.  
Б─╒ 
In response to Goal CD-4 about City Image, some GPS members expressed that San 
Mateo has lost a sense of a identity that distinguishes it from other Peninsula cities, and 
that the General Plan could be an opportunity to clarify what makes San Mateo unique. 
Some ideas were Downtown, dining, Hillsdale Mall, and the San Mateo Bridge. A unique 
identity should be consistently expressed through signage and other City materials.  
Б─╒ 
Under Goal CD-5, delete Policy CD-P5.1 regarding building mass and scale. This policy is 
too vague and is not needed; the desired outcomes are addressed more clearly and 
explicitly in other policies under this goal.  
Б─╒ 
Consider adding area-specific design policies for the San Mateo Park and Baywood-
Aragon neighborhoods.  
CONSERVATION, OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATION ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Address public accessibility of private open spaces, including signage. 
Б─╒ 
Address the lack of access to recreational facilities for neighborhoods east of El Camino 
Real and especially east of 101.  
Б─╒ 
Add language about public spaces that are age-integrated and offer spaces for teens.  
Б─╒ 
Strengthen references to local school districts and mutual collaboration in support of 
recreational access.  
Б─╒ 
Confirm that the parks figure accurately reflects facilities at Bayside/Joinville (school 
district property), Dale Avenue, and Station Park Green. 
Б─╒ 
Add an Action under Goal COS-2 to develop a volunteer stewardship program, especially 
as the City opens up access to creeks.  
Б─╒ 
Goal COS-4 should acknowledge the importance of reducing vehicle miles traveled as a 
way to improve air quality.  
Б─╒ 
Goal COS-6 could include an action to modernize and make more accessible data that 
the City has on areas with high archaeological sensitivity.  
Б─╒ 
Policies under Goal COS-9 should mention wi-fi, water fountains, and restrooms public 
amenities offered in park and recreational facilities.  
Б─╒ 
Consider an action under Goal COS-10 to do more frequent surveys of residents to ask 
about park and recreation amenities.  
Б─╒ 
Add an Action under Goal COS-11 to identify new funding sources for parks and 
recreation facilities.  
219 of 317

--- page 220 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 3 
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Consider whether we need to add more policies about code enforcement in the General 
Plan. 
Б─╒ 
Sewer laterals upgrades should be covered in the General Plan to address leakage. The 
policy could help encourage sewer laterals maintenance and replacement. Reference 
the CityБ─≥s program that helps subsidize these type of upgrades.  
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°as neededБ─² after new fire stations in Policy PS-P1.3. Fire stations are a very 
expensive investment. 
Б─╒ 
Add a policy that encourages existing homes to convert to water efficient landscaping 
under Goal PS-2. Offer incentives, rebates, and education in partnership with Cal Water. 
Б─╒ 
Mention greywater and potable water in Action PS-A2.1. Also, reference the CityБ─≥s water 
treatment facility where there are ongoing measures to produce greywater and potable 
water. Maybe there is more that can be done to encourage greywater systems in 
residential and commercial buildings.   
Б─╒ 
Include stronger language about water conservation  in Policy PS-P2.2. 
Б─╒ 
Add the word Б─°coordinateБ─² to action PS-A3.1. 
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°and bayБ─² after lagoons at the end of Policy PS-P3.3. Simplify and make this policy 
stronger.  
Б─╒ 
Mention bicycle and pedestrian projects in Action PS-A3.3.  
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°considerБ─² at the beginning of Policy PS-P4.3.  
Б─╒ 
Add language that encourages green space in Policy PS-P4.9. 
Б─╒ 
Under Goal PS-5, add a policy or action about encouraging the development of licensed 
preschool facilities. This should be a priority. Also work with school districts to 
encourage efforts to provide more before and after school programs. 
Б─╒ 
Agree with Policy PS-P5.2, but rewrite the policy to make it more clear. Explain what 
Б─°compatible with surrounding land usesБ─² means. 
Б─╒ 
Emphasize non-residential development in Action PS-A5.2.  
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy PS-P5.5 to address inadequacies in existing childcare facilities. There are a 
number of existing facilities under Parks and Recreation that cannot be utilized for child 
care because they do not meet the square footage requirement to be a licensed facility. 
We need to go beyond retaining facilities and consider if there are some existing 
facilities that need to be shutdown or expanded. Also, collect park fees and make it a 
priority to expand existing childcare facilities. 
Б─╒ 
Add a policy under Goal PS-6 about distributing health centers throughout the city to 
make sure they are accessible. Also add a policy about mobile health care, perhaps the 
City can help support the CountyБ─≥s efforts.  
Б─╒ 
Ensure Policy PS-P6.3 balances the need for social services in each community while also 
ensuring that services are not concentrated in one area.  
Б─╒ 
Add nonprofits and community based organizations to Policy PS-P6.4. Revise this policy 
to say Б─°support vulnerable populations by prioritizing reduction of vulnerabilitiesБ─² and 
then list nonprofits and religious groups to help.  
 
 
220 of 317

--- page 221 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 4 
SAFETY ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Support efforts to underground utilities.  
Б─╒ 
Revise the examples in Policy S-P1.7 to include data-driven defensible design examples.  
Б─╒ 
Consider vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and bicyclists, in Policy S-P1.8 and 
Action S-A1.10. Do not support expansion of Highway 101 and other roadways. Focus on 
designing roads that help prevent traffic fatalities. There should be a reference 
somewhere in the language that addresses roadway design for vulnerable users.  
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy S-P5.6 to ensure monitoring of peakload water supply is occurring by the 
appropriate entity.  
Б─╒ 
Add policies and actions to reduce per capita energy use, such as Б─°encourage energy use 
reduction by incentivizing active transportation and reducing single occupant vehicle 
useБ─². Another policy could be Б─°encourage the creation of energy efficient homes, 
businesses, and other buildingsБ─². Possible actions could be Б─°encourage energy use 
reduction through the creation of safe and comfortable opportunities for active 
transport modes by implementing the CityБ─≥s pedestrian and bicycle master plan and 
focusing new development near major transit nodesБ─². Another action could be 
encouraging the installation of energy efficient home insulation, weather sealing and 
other physical means to reduce heating and cooling needs through greater Title 24 
building efficiency.  
Б─╒ 
Cover energy saving appliances and electric appliances.  
NOISE ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy N-P1.2 to add a reference about outdoor equipment such as leaf blowers 
and two-stroke engines. Maybe the policy can be revised to list the known noise 
irritants. Consider adding a reference about outdoor equipment in Policy N-P2.1.  
Б─╒ 
Consider whether the roads mentioned in Policy N-P2.4 will actually be widened since 
Caltrans has been deprioritizing widening of roads.  
Б─╒ 
City could help reduce traffic speeds in Policy N-P2.4 since they are a noise generator. 
Б─╒ 
Emphasize or add more about railroad noise.  
CIRCULATION ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Support for many of the revisions requested in the letter submitted by Move San 
Mateo.   
Б─╒ 
Add a threshold for the size of development when we say Б─°require new developments 
toБ─² in the policies and actions. Applying requirements for new development makes 
sense for larger projects.  
Б─╒ 
Replace walking, bicycling and transit everywhere it appears with Б─°transit and active 
transportation modesБ─². A few subcommittee members disagree and believe the General 
Plan should include commonly known terms.   
Б─╒ 
Add an action under Goal C-1 that requires implementation of the pedestrian and 
bicycle infrastructure outlined in the Circulation Map anytime a roadway is resurfaced. 
This is partially covered by Action C-A4.2, but it only mentions bicycle infrastructure and 
could be expanded to include pedestrian infrastructure. 
221 of 317

--- page 222 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 5 
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy C-P1.3 as follows:  
o Delete Б─°works towardsБ─².  
o Revise policy to say: Use a safe systems approach for transportation planning, 
street design, operations, emergency response, and maintenance that 
proactively identifies opportunities to Б─°improve safety where conflicts between 
users exist in order to eliminate traffic fatalities and serious injuries in our 
roadwaysБ─². 
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy C-P1.5 to address high capacity travel, facilitate efficient travel, and limit 
left turns during high traffic hours. However, there may not be much the City can do 
because El Camino Real is a State road.  
Б─╒ 
For Action C-A1.5, study not only where people already go, but where they would like to 
go and build routes around their needs.  
Б─╒ 
Clarify the word Б─°considerБ─² in the second sentence of Action C-A2.1.  
Б─╒ 
Be more specific about Б─°safe routes to schoolБ─² in Action C-A2.5.  
Б─╒ 
A few subcommittee members would like to revise Action C-A2.7 to say Б─°requiredБ─² 
instead of Б─°encourageБ─², but some believe the General Plan should stay high level.   
Б─╒ 
Modify Policy C-P3.2 to require the widest sidewalks that are feasible and comfortable.   
Б─╒ 
Unsure why Policy C-P3.4 is under the pedestrian goal.  
Б─╒ 
Action C-A3.1 should be revised to clarify that there is an urgent need for 
implementation of pedestrian improvements.  
Б─╒ 
Add increasing sight lines and removing conflicts at the cross walks to Action C-A3.5. 
There should be an action about the visibility at cross walks for pedestrians. 
Б─╒ 
Change Б─°transit centersБ─² to Б─°community destinationsБ─² in Policy C-P4.3. 
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°undercrossingsБ─² in Action C-A4.3. 
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°at intersectionsБ─² to Action C-14.6.  
Б─╒ 
There is a transit operator shortage not ridership shortage. Maybe we need to change 
the focus to Б─°increasing the serviceБ─² instead of Б─°increasing ridershipБ─² in Policy C-P5.1.  
Б─╒ 
Break Policy C-P5.5 into two policies. Also, revise the policy to educate the public about 
all alternative travel modes, not just transit.  
Б─╒ 
Do not limit Action C-A5.2 to only include disadvantaged communities. There should be 
a focus on disadvantaged communities, but the action should be expanded to other 
areas.  
Б─╒ 
Explain what vehicles miles traveled per capita is in Goal C-6. Say Б─°efficient and safeБ─² 
operations and also say Б─°residentsБ─² instead of Б─°modesБ─².  
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy C-P6.4 to include a reference to improving the CityБ─≥s process to request 
and receive traffic calming measures on residential streets.  
Б─╒ 
One subcommittee member would like Action C-A7.2 revised to say Б─°implementБ─² 
instead of Б─°evaluateБ─², but another subcommittee member disagreed.  
Б─╒ 
Revise Action C-A8.4 to address data privacy. Do not limit the action to new technology 
options, we should require this from public transportation as well.  
222 of 317

--- page 223 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 6 
Б─╒ 
Prioritize traffic calming measures in Goal C-6 and focus on areas with the highest 
vehicle collisions. Add an action under this goal that calls for annual vehicles, pedestrian 
and bicycle counts at different intersections to measure how the City is doing.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action that requires new development in Downtown to have shared parking 
agreements that allows the public to use the parking space in the evenings. One 
subcommittee member believes we should remove existing public parking spaces if we 
are adding more public parking opportunities in Downtown. 
Б─╒ 
Add a new policy or action about education under Transportation Demand 
Management. There are programs out there where people can trade in their car to get 
transit and e-bike credits.  
Б─╒ 
Add a policy or goal about connecting neighborhoods or reducing barriers to help traffic 
flow, for example there is a wall that separates the Shoreview neighborhood and the 
new parks on J Hart Clinton Drive.  
Б─╒ 
Place a stronger emphasis on traffic efficiency, infrastructure, traffic calming, and 
parking in the Circulation Element. One subcommittee member believes the focus 
should be on getting people out of their cars, which helps reduce traffic.  
Б─╒ 
In addition to greenhouse gas emissions, also reference vehicle miles traveled in the 
goals of this element. 
Б─╒ 
Consider how some of the emerging technology trends could change the city if they 
actually came into fruition.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action about school safety speed zones.   
Б─╒ 
Make sure we are prioritizing local projects, not only regional projects.  
Б─╒ 
Concern about scooter safety.  
LAND USE ELEMENT 
Б─╒ 
Revise Goal LU-1 as follows: 
o Change Б─°citizensБ─² to Б─°residents.Б─²  
o Include a reference about affordability. Suggested revision could be Б─°provides 
ample housing which is affordable at all levelsБ─². 
o Consider using Б─°balancedБ─² instead of Б─°orderlyБ─² growth. 
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy LU-P1.1 to add the word affordability. Would like to see one or two actions 
that could meaningfully achieve this policy. 
Б─╒ 
Revise Action LU-A1.1 to be more specific. Would also like to see an action about 
maintaining a real time list of pipeline projects such as the amount of office, jobs and 
housing that is planned. There should be a requirement that we report this information 
on an annual basis.  
Б─╒ 
Consider using Б─°encourageБ─² instead of Б─°requireБ─² in Policy LU-P1.2. 
Б─╒ 
Unsure why Action LU-A1.2 is titled as surplus land inventory.  
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy LU-P1.3 to say, Б─°component to provideБ─².   
Б─╒ 
Policy LU-P1.6 may be outdated.  
Б─╒ 
Define what the Sphere of Influence is in Policy LU-P1.7.  
Б─╒ 
Define the term Б─²equity priority communitiesБ─² used in Policy LU-P1.8.  
223 of 317

--- page 224 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 7 
Б─╒ 
Flush out the community benefits in Policy LU-P2.2. Would recommend building heights 
above 65 feet only for projects that provide housing as a community benefit. An 
increase in height should be tied to housing being a major part of that building and also 
providing a greater amount of below market rate units than what the CityБ─≥s inclusionary 
ordinance requires. Include high quality materials and context appropriate design as a 
community benefit for taller buildings. One subcommittee member believes we should 
be careful about how much we ask for from developers because there are other ways to 
make a project pencil that may not benefit the community, such as hiring out-of-state 
labor.  
Б─╒ 
Add the concept of access to commercial services in Policy LU-P2.5.  
Б─╒ 
Add the word Б─°recreationБ─² to Goal LU-3.  
Б─╒ 
Add circulation somewhere in Policy LU-P3.2, but unsure were.  
Б─╒ 
Policy LU-P3.6 seems to be outdated.  
Б─╒ 
The following comments were received about Policy LU-P3.9: 
o This policy should not dictate the type of businesses. Delete Б─°to research and 
development, bio-tech, and life sciences uses, and/orБ─². 
o Clarify what Б─°as far as possible from high-volume roadwaysБ─² means.  
o California Air Resources Board recommends against siting sensitive uses, like 
housing, within 500 feet from high-volume roadways which is defined as 
100,000 vehicles or more a day. El Camino Real does not meet that criteria, but 
Highway 101 and State Route 92 East of El Camino does meet the criteria. There 
seems to be contradiction in the General Plan, we say we have a policy to locate 
new residential away from high volume roadways, but Study Area 7 and another 
study area along State Route 92 are designated as high and medium density 
residential.   
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy LU-P3.12 to encourage the design of publicly accessible spaces that people 
can intuitively know the space is for their use.  
Б─╒ 
Comments received on Policy LU-P3.14:  
o This policy is the same policy as PS-P5.2.  
o Policy is outdated and confusing, it needs wordsmithing.  
o Delete the rest of the policy after the first sentence. 
o The school district and the City have a 55 year lease on Bayside Park. Maybe we 
can have a separate policy that references Bayside Park because that lease will 
come up at the end of this General Plan.  
Б─╒ 
Replace Б─°supportБ─² with Б─°prioritizeБ─² in Action LU-A4.1.  
Б─╒ 
Action LU-A5.1 is missing what the alternative transportation is alternative to. Change 
Б─°alternative transportationБ─² to Б─°active transportationБ─². 
Б─╒ 
Encourage buffers between people and cars in Policy LU-P5.2. Mention the CityБ─≥s tree 
planting plan here. There needs to be a discussion about downtown landscaping in this 
policy.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action about the pedestrian mall. 
Б─╒ 
Revise Policy LU-P6.1 to say world class transit-oriented Б─°mixed useБ─² development.  
Б─╒ 
Concerned about including the term Б─°gentrificationБ─² in Policy LU-P8.2.  
224 of 317

--- page 225 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 8 
Б─╒ 
Add green space where it says Б─°includes retail, services and housingБ─² in Policy LU-P7.1.  
Б─╒ 
Add biking and walking facilities to Action LU-A7.2, similar to Bridgepointe.  
Б─╒ 
Add a separate policy or action for the King Center instead of including it in Policy LU-
P8.3. There is a need to enhance the King Center beyond maintaining it. Also, confirm if 
the park impact fees are only supposed to be for physical park improvements and 
address this in the action. 
Б─╒ 
Identify other funding sources in Action LU-A8.3.  
Б─╒ 
Unsure if we should keep convenience markets in Policy LU-P8.5 since they do not 
typically provide healthy foods.  
Б─╒ 
Suggested revisions to Action LU-A8.5: 
o Maybe we can say Б─°balance safety improvements with optimizing the existing 
parking supplyБ─² or Б─°balance the design of the safety improvements.Б─²   
o There was a North Central community based transportation plan that was well 
received. Reference the plan or maybe we need to complete a new plan, it 
received a lot of public support at that time.  
o Possible new language Б─°the plan shall seek to make the North Central 
neighborhood streets a measurably safer place while improving accessibility for 
residents and visitors. Parking availability and access shall be featured as a 
factor in assessing the planning and design of projects. Changes shall be 
developed and enacted with the expressed purposes of improving health, 
safety, welfare and comfort for members of the communityБ─². 
Б─╒ 
Add Б─°sanitationБ─² to Action LU-A8.6.  
Б─╒ 
Comments received on Policy LU-P8.7:  
o Not sure this is within the CityБ─≥s purview; the County health department has 
been closely working on healthy food in school efforts.  
o This policy seems outdated.  
o There was a question about whether the school district has a meal program for 
the summer or if the City can help fill the gap. Historically, the school district 
does not provide food for the community in the summer only for summer 
school.  
o One subcommittee member asked if we could add language about Б─°explore or 
incentivize plant based foods in schoolsБ─², but a few subcommittee members 
disagreed.  
o Maybe this policy should go beyond schools. Having fresh produce in 
neighborhoods is the key thing people need access to. 
Б─╒ 
Modify Action LU-A8.7 to go beyond partnering with neighborhood organizations and 
instead also encourage neighborhood cleanliness and beautification programs that do 
not rely solely on volunteers and neighborhood organizations.   
Б─╒ 
Highlight how members of the public can influence development projects through 
community engagement under Goal LU-9. 
Б─╒ 
Add child care in Policy LU-P9.1 as a feature of public meetings that will increase 
attendance.  
Б─╒ 
Add a policy or action about recycled water under Goal LU-10. Remove the word 
Б─°boldlyБ─² from this goal.  
225 of 317

--- page 226 ---
August 31, 2022 | Page 9 
Б─╒ 
Change Б─°reduceБ─² to Б─°eliminateБ─² in Policy LU-P10.2 since this is a long term plan.  
Б─╒ 
Change five years to three years in Action LU-A10.3 since the reach codes and building 
codes come out every three years.  
Б─╒ 
Improve the definition of  Б─°provide a living wageБ─² in Action LU-A11.1. Maybe we should 
say Б─°a wage that is indexed to the cost of livingБ─².  
Б─╒ 
Mention Б─°support remote work optionsБ─² and Б─°public wifiБ─² in Policy LU-P11.3 about 
telecommunications.  
Б─╒ 
Clarify what projects Action LU-A12.1 would apply to. This action is also not clear. 
Б─╒ 
There is no action for the Shoreview shopping center, only for the Bridgepoint and Bel 
Mateo shopping centers. Add an action for the Shoreview shopping center.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action about jobs housing balance. Mountain ViewБ─≥s East Whisman Precise Plan 
has a requirement of 3 units of housing to be built for every 1,000 feet of commercial. 
Redwood CityБ─≥s General plan also specifies a maximum additional residential capacity of 
2,500 units, a maximum additional office capacity of 574,667 and a maximum additional 
retail capacity of 100,000 sq. ft. within their Downtown area. Would like to see a similar 
action in the General Plan.  
Б─╒ 
There is an area in the Land Use Map that is designated mixed use low right next to 
State Route 92, across from The Fish Market, City Council asked for this parcel to be 
designated as mixed use medium but it was recorded in the notes as mixed use low. 
Note to staff to go back and watch the recording to double check.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action to increase the urban tree canopy while maintaining existing trees as 
much as possible. Identify neighborhoods with less street tree canopy and adopt 
programs to add climate adapted trees to the right of ways and front yards of adjacent 
properties.  
Б─╒ 
Add an action under the Hillsdale Station Area about working with Caltrain to make the 
station accessible for biking. 
Б─╒ 
Ensure there are roughly equal heights along contiguous blocks. There are some blocks 
where it goes from residential to mixed use. Important where it changes to residential 
and mixed use to have a consistent height between these types of land uses.  
Б─╒ 
Add mention about having less paved surfaces that reflect heat in our city under climate 
change and sustainability.  
Б─╒ 
Add a policy or action about green infrastructure in multi-unit developments under 
climate change and sustainability.  
Б─╒ 
Consider how Assembly Bill (AB) 297 would eliminate parking requirements for projects 
within a certain distance of transit.  
Б─╒ 
Think about how the City is moving towards reallocating the public space for a wider 
variety of uses that could be used by small businesses. 
Б─╒ 
Mixed use should not only include office and residential, but it can also include 
commercial service type of uses.  
Б─╒ 
High speed rail is a huge land use issue that should be addressed further. Add a 
reference to preserving access to Downtown and neighborhoods. 
 
226 of 317

--- page 227 ---
Representative Heights and Density Handout
Multi-family housing
Name
Address
Total Units
Acres
Height
Density
Photo
CityLine Mixed 
Use Development 
Project
200 South Taaffe 
Street, Sunnyvale, 
CA
479 units
3.77 acres
Twelve 
stories
128 du/ac
Highwater Mixed 
Use Project
1409 El Camino 
Real, Redwood 
City, CA 94603
350 total
1.64 acres
Eight stories
213 du/ac
The Marston
825 Marshall St, 
Redwood City, CA 
94063
196 units
1 acre
Seven stories
196 du/ac
The Dean 
Apartments
458 San Antonio 
Rd, Mountain 
View, CA 94040
583 units
5.7 acre
Five to seven 
stories
102 du/ac
227 of 317

--- page 228 ---
The Altan 
Condominium
4880 El Camino 
Real, Los Altos, 
CA 94022
21 units
0.45 acres 
Five stories
46 du/ac
Firehouse Square 
Affordable 
Housing Project
1300 El Camino 
Real, Belmont, 
San Mateo 
County, California 
94002
66 units
0.72 acre
Three and 
four stories
91 du/ac
The Village 
Residences
555 San Antonio 
Rd, Mountain 
View, CA 94040
330 units
16 acres
228 of 317

--- page 229 ---
Planning Commission
Draft Goals, Policies, and Actions
September 27, 2022
229 of 317

--- page 230 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Team
б╩
City of San Mateo
Б─╒ Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director
Б─╒ Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
Б─╒ Brian Alexander, Senior Mgmt. Analyst
Б─╒ Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
Б─╒ Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Б─╒ Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
б╩
Technical Advisory Committee
Б─╒ Over 40 staff members from all City 
departments and SMCFD
б╩
Consultants
Б─╒ Joanna Jansen, PlaceWorks
Б─╒ Carey Stone, PlaceWorks
Б─╒ Angelica Garcia, PlaceWorks
Б─╒ Evelia Chairez, PCRC
Б─╒ Sabina Mora, Good City Co
Б─╒ Nelson\Nygaard
Б─╒ Kittelson Associates, Inc.
Б─╒ Economic & Planning Systems (EPS)
Б─╒ BKF Engineers
230 of 317

--- page 231 ---
3
StriveSanMateo.org
TonightБ─≥s Agenda Discussion
б╩ Presentation
б╩ Clarifying Questions
б╩ Public Comment
б╩ Commission Discussion
231 of 317

--- page 232 ---
4
StriveSanMateo.org
Objectives for Tonight 
б╩ Share overview of:
Б─╒ Land Use Element
Б─╒ Community Design and Historic Preservation Element
Б─╒ Safety Element
б╩ Receive public comments
б╩ Planning Commission discussion and recommendation on:
Б─╒ Land Use Element
Б─╒ Community Design and Historic Preservation Element
Б─╒ Safety Element
232 of 317

--- page 233 ---
Project Overview
233 of 317

--- page 234 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Vision Statement
234 of 317

--- page 235 ---
7
StriveSanMateo.org
Where Are We Now and WhatБ─≥s Next? 
We are here.
235 of 317

--- page 236 ---
8
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Elements 
2. Land Use
3. Circulation
4. Housing (prepared separately)
5. Community Design and Historic Resources
6. Conservation, Open Space and Recreation
7. Public Services and Facilities
8. Safety
9. Noise
236 of 317

--- page 237 ---
9
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Б─⌠ Other Components
1. Introduction
[Elements Б─⌠ 2 through 9]
10. Appendices
11. Glossary
12. Acknowledgements
13. Implementation Plan (separate from General Plan)
Б─╒
Explains how actions will be implemented
Б√╙
Who is responsible
Б√╙
Timing
Б─╒
Tracks progress
Б─╒
Finalized after completion of the General Plan
237 of 317

--- page 238 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan and Other Policy Documents
б╩ General Plan provides high level policy direction
б╩ Other City documents refine the details
Б─╒ Municipal Code
Б√╙Zoning Code
Б√╙Building and Construction Code
Б√╙Ordinances
Б─╒ Specific and Area Plans
Б─╒ Park and Recreation Facility Master Plans
Б─╒ Complete Streets Plan
Б─╒ Bicycle and Pedestrian Plans
Б─╒ Infrastructure Master Plans
Б─╒ Climate Action Plan
Б─╒ Emergency and Hazard Plans
238 of 317

--- page 239 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Engagement
Date
Outreach Event
# of Participants
Late July
Citywide Newsletter
Mailed to every household in 
San Mateo
Late July through mid-September
Draft Policies and Actions Online Survey
196*
Tuesday, August 23, 2022
Video Loco Pop-up
25
Thursday, August 25, 2022
Video Loco Pop-up
20
Friday, August 26, 2022
Chavez Market Pop-up
15
Saturday, August 27, 2022
Rediscover San Mateo Community Fest Pop-up
140
Tuesday, September 6, 2022
Chavez Market Pop-up
50
Thursday, September 8, 2022
Virtual Community Workshop
26
Friday, September 9, 2022
Movies in the Park Pop-up
50
Saturday, September 10, 2022
Spanish Language Workshop
4
Saturday, September 10, 2022
September Nights on B Street Pop-up
30
Thursday, September 15, 2022
September Nights on B Street Pop-up
15
Friday, September 16, 2022
Movies in the Park Pop-up
50
Saturday, September 17, 2022
Open House
30
Thursday, September 22, 2022
September Nights on B Street Pop-up
31
Friday, September 23, 2022
Movies in the Park Pop-up
25
Saturday, September 24, 2022
San Mateo Firefighters Association Chili Cook-off Pop-up
45
Meeting details and information available at:
www.StriveSanMateo.org
*Online Survey results as of September 27th; Online Survey is open through October 14th. 
239 of 317

--- page 240 ---
12
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Engagement 
б╩ General Plan Subcommittee Meetings
Б─╒ August 11th, August 18th and August 30th
б╩ Planning Commission Meetings
Б─╒ September 13th and September 27th
б╩ City Council Meetings
Б─╒ October 3rd and October 17th
240 of 317

--- page 241 ---
Next Steps
241 of 317

--- page 242 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
Goals, Policies, and Actions Next Steps
б╩ Community Input
Б─╒ Online survey open through October 14th 
Б─╒ Pop-ups
Б─╒ Information at www.StriveSanMateo.org
б╩ City Council Direction
Б─╒ Two meetings on October 3rd and October 17th
б╩ Finalize, goals, policies and actions and incorporate into 
Draft General Plan
242 of 317

--- page 243 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
б╩ Summer 2023 Б─⌠ Draft General Plan
Б─╒ Three Planning Commission meetings
б╩ Late 2023 Б─⌠ Final General Plan
Б─╒ Two Planning Commission meetings
Future Planning Commission Meetings on General Plan
243 of 317

--- page 244 ---
Draft Goals, Policies 
and Actions 
244 of 317

--- page 245 ---
17
StriveSanMateo.org
How Goals, Policies, and Actions Fit In
б╩ Each Element will include the following components: 
Б─╒ Background information narrative 
Б─╒ Maps 
Б─╒ Photos and illustrations 
Б─╒ Goals 
Б√╙Policies
Б√╙Actions 
245 of 317

--- page 246 ---
18
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan 
Background 
Information Narrative
б╩ Provides data, information 
and other details relevant 
to the Element
б╩ Sets the context for goals, 
policies and actions
б╩ Succinct and enduring  
information
246 of 317

--- page 247 ---
19
StriveSanMateo.org
What is a Goal, Policy and Action?
б╩ A goal is a description of a general desired result.
б╩ A policy regulates activities in the City, guides 
decisionmaking and directs ongoing efforts as 
the City works to achieve a goal.
б╩ An action is a measure, procedure, or technique 
intended to help reach a specified goal or 
implement a policy. 
247 of 317

--- page 248 ---
20
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Goals, Policies and Actions Process
б╩ Review existing General Plan goals, polices, and actions 
Б─╒ Staff review from all departments 
Б─╒ What works? WhatБ─≥s not working well? WhatБ─≥s been completed or is no longer relevant? 
Б─╒ Add new content to respond to current State requirements 
б╩ Revise and add based on input and direction from: 
Б─╒ Community members
Б─╒ General Plan Subcommittee 
Б─╒ Planning Commission
Б─╒ City Council
б╩ Prepare updated goals, policies, and actions
248 of 317

--- page 249 ---
21
StriveSanMateo.org
Planning Commission Discussion
б╩
Provide comments by element
Б─╒ Land Use
Б─╒ Community Design and Historic Preservation 
Б─╒ Safety
б╩
Discussion questions:
Б─╒ What do you support about these policies and actions?
Б─╒ Is there anything you would add or change?
Б─╒ Are there any policy topics missing?
Б─╒ Should any of the policies be changed from a recommendation to a requirement or vice versa?
Б─╒ Are there additional specific actions that should be added to support implementation of the policies?
б╩
Provide a recommendation to the City Council on the Goals, Polices and Actions that 
should be included in the CityБ─≥s Draft General Plan Update
б╩
Keep discussion focused on content; please email grammatical or typographical 
edits to generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
249 of 317

--- page 250 ---
Land Use Element
250 of 317

--- page 251 ---
23
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Balanced, Orderly, and Equitable Growth and Preservation
Б─╒ Plan carefully for orderly growth that provides ample housing and job 
opportunities for all citizens, maximizes efficient use of infrastructure, 
limits adverse impacts to the environment and improves social, economic 
and health equity. (Goal LU-1)
Б√╙Equitable Development
Б√╙Optimize Development Opportunities
Б√╙Mixed Uses
Б√╙Annexation
Б√╙Review of New Development
Б√╙Surplus Land Inventory
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ San Mateo Local Agency Formation 
Commission
Б─╒ San Mateo County
Б─╒ Zoning Code
251 of 317

--- page 252 ---
24
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Land Use Map
252 of 317

--- page 253 ---
25
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Balanced, Orderly, and Equitable Growth and Preservation
Б─╒ Balance well-designed development and thoughtful preservation.      
(Goal LU-2)
Б√╙Development Intensity/Density
Б√╙Community Benefits
Б√╙Building Height and Density 
Б√╙Clustering
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Zoning Code
253 of 317

--- page 254 ---
26
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ A Diverse Range of Land Uses
Б─╒ Provide a wide range of land uses, 
including housing, parks, open space, 
retail, commercial services, office, and 
industrial, to adequately meet the full 
spectrum of needs in the community. 
(Goal LU-3)
Б√╙Housing Diversity
Б√╙Commercial Development
Б√╙Hotels and the Visitor Economy
Б√╙Office Park Evolution
Б√╙Service Commercial
Б√╙Community Gathering Places
Б√╙Public Facilities
Б√╙Major Institutions/Special Facilities
254 of 317

--- page 255 ---
27
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Focused Planning Areas 
Б─╒ Downtown
Б─╒ Maintain downtown San Mateo 
as the economic, cultural, and 
social center of the community. 
(Goal LU-4)
Б√╙Downtown Land Uses
Б√╙Quality of Downtown Development
Б√╙Significant Historic Structures
Б√╙Downtown Area Plan
Б√╙Downtown Special Events
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Downtown Area Plan
Б─╒ Downtown San Mateo Association
Б─╒ Caltrain
255 of 317

--- page 256 ---
28
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Focused Planning Areas (cont.)
Б─╒ El Camino Real
Б─╒ Promote residential land uses along and 
improvements to El Camino Real to strengthen its 
role as both a local and regional corridor. 
(Goal LU-5)
Б√╙Housing on El Camino Real
Б√╙El Camino Real Landscaping
Б√╙Multi-modal Improvements
Б─╒ Hillsdale Station Area
Б─╒ Promote transit-oriented development around the 
Hillsdale Caltrain station. (Goal LU-6)
Б√╙Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan 
(Corridor Plan)
Б√╙Hillsdale Shopping Center
Б√╙Hillsdale Station Area Plan
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Caltrans
Б─╒ Caltrain
Б─╒ Sam Trans
Б─╒ El Camino Real Master Plan
Б─╒ Grand Boulevard Initiative
256 of 317

--- page 257 ---
29
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Focused Planning Areas (cont.)
Б─╒ Shopping Centers in Transition
Б─╒ Support the transition of shopping centers 
designated for new uses into vibrant 
districts with a range of housing, 
shopping, services, and jobs. (Goal LU-7)
Б√╙Bridgepointe, Shoreview, and Bel Mateo 
Shopping Centers
Б√╙Bridgepointe Area Plan
Б√╙Bel Mateo Area Plan
257 of 317

--- page 258 ---
30
StriveSanMateo.org
About Environmental Justice
Pollution 
Burden
Low 
Income 
Area
Б─°Equity Priority 
CommunityБ─² or 
"Disadvantaged 
CommunityБ─° 
(SB 1000)
258 of 317

--- page 259 ---
31
StriveSanMateo.org
Environmental Justice Topics Under SB 1000
б╩ Pollution Exposure and Air Quality
б╩ Public Facilities
б╩ Food Access
б╩ Safe and Sanitary Homes
б╩ Physical Activity
б╩ Community Engagement in Public 
Decision-Making
б╩ Prioritization of Improvements and 
Programs in EJ Communities
259 of 317

--- page 260 ---
32
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Environmental Justice
Б─╒ Support the equitable health and well-being of all neighborhoods in San 
Mateo and all members of the San Mateo community by improving 
conditions in equity priority communities. (Goal LU-8)
Б√╙Health Disparities
Б√╙Community Preservation
Б√╙Access to Parks and Recreation
Б√╙Streetscape and Safety Improvements
Б√╙North Central Plan
Б√╙City Services
Б√╙Neighborhood Beautification
Б√╙Healthy Food Access
Б√╙Urban Agriculture
260 of 317

--- page 261 ---
33
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Community Engagement
Б─╒ Include everyone in community development decisions for a shared, 
sustainable future. (Goal LU-9)
Б√╙Inclusive Outreach
Б√╙Equitable Engagement
Б√╙Applicant Communications
Б√╙Trusted Partners
Б√╙Community Surveys
Б√╙Communications Strategy
261 of 317

--- page 262 ---
34
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Climate Change and Sustainability
Б─╒ Make San Mateo strong and resilient by acting boldly to significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to a changing climate. 
(Goal LU-10)
Б√╙Effects of Climate Change
Б√╙Sustainable Buildings and Development
Б√╙Climate Action Plan Implementation
Б√╙Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Б√╙Greenhouse Gas Inventory
Б√╙Renewable Energy
Б√╙Resilience of Critical Facilities and Public Infrastructure
262 of 317

--- page 263 ---
35
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ A Sustainable Economy Б─⌠ Economic Development
Б─╒ Cultivate a diverse, thriving, inclusive and green economy. (Goal LU-11)
Б√╙Economic Development
Б√╙Local Employment
Б√╙State-of-the-Art Telecommunications
Б√╙Jobs-to-Resident Match
Б√╙Small Business Support
Б√╙Commercial Displacement
Б√╙First Source Hiring
263 of 317

--- page 264 ---
36
StriveSanMateo.org
Land Use Element
б╩ Fiscal Health 
Б─╒ Create financial stability for the City to maintain the CityБ─≥s ability to finance 
public improvements and human services. (Goal LU-12)
б╩ Development Review
Б─╒ Maintain Development Review and Building Permit processes that are 
comprehensive and efficient. (Goal LU-13)
б╩ Regional Cooperation
Б─╒ Collaborate and communicate with 
other public agencies regarding 
regional issues. (Goal LU-14)
б╩ General Plan Maintenance
Б─╒ Ensure that the CityБ─≥s General Plan is consistent with State Law, legally 
adequate, and up-to-date. (Goal LU-15)
264 of 317

--- page 265 ---
37
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Feedback
б╩ Increase density near transit
б╩ Prioritize residential in mixed-use
б╩ Encourage retail uses
б╩ Reduce building heights
б╩ Increase building heights, particularly 
near transit
б╩ Increase community engagement
265 of 317

--- page 266 ---
38
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Revise Goal LU-1 as follows:
o
Change Б─°citizensБ─² to Б─°residents.Б─² 
o
Include a reference about affordability. Suggested revision could be Б─°provides ample housing which is affordable at all levelsБ─².
o
Consider using Б─°balancedБ─² instead of Б─°orderlyБ─² growth.
Б─╒
Revise Policy LU-P1.1 to add the word affordability. Would like to see one or two actions that could meaningfully achieve this policy.
Б─╒
Revise Action LU-A1.1 to be more specific. Would also like to see an action about maintaining a real time list of pipeline projects such as the 
amount of office, jobs and housing that is planned. There should be a requirement that we report this information on an annual basis. 
Б─╒
Consider using Б─°encourageБ─² instead of Б─°requireБ─² in Policy LU-P1.2.
Б─╒
Unsure why Action LU-A1.2 is titled as surplus land inventory.
Б─╒
Revise Policy LU-P1.3 to say, Б─°component to provideБ─².  
Б─╒
Policy LU-P1.6 may be outdated. 
Б─╒
Define what the Sphere of Influence is in Policy LU-P1.7. 
Б─╒
Define the term Б─²equity priority communitiesБ─² used in Policy LU-P1.8. 
Б─╒
Flush out the community benefits in Policy LU-P2.2. Would recommend building heights above 65 feet only for projects that provide housing 
as a community benefit. An increase in height should be tied to housing being a major part of that building and also providing a greater 
amount of below market rate units than what the CityБ─≥s inclusionary ordinance requires. Include high quality materials and context 
appropriate design as a community benefit for taller buildings. One subcommittee member believes we should be careful about how much 
we ask for from developers because there are other ways to make a project pencil that may not benefit the community, such as hiring out-of-
state labor. 
Б─╒
Add the concept of access to commercial services in Policy LU-P2.5. 
266 of 317

--- page 267 ---
39
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Add the word Б─°recreationБ─² to Goal LU-3. 
Б─╒
Add circulation somewhere in Policy LU-P3.2, but unsure were. 
Б─╒
Policy LU-P3.6 seems to be outdated. 
Б─╒
The following comments were received about Policy LU-P3.9:
o
This policy should not dictate the type of businesses. Delete Б─°to research and development, bio-tech, and life sciences uses, and/orБ─².
o
Clarify what Б─°as far as possible from high-volume roadwaysБ─² means. 
o
California Air Resources Board recommends against siting sensitive uses, like housing, within 500 feet from high-volume roadways which is 
defined as 100,000 vehicles or more a day. El Camino Real does not meet that criteria, but Highway 101 and State Route 92 East of El 
Camino does meet the criteria. There seems to be contradiction in the General Plan, we say we have a policy to locate new residential 
away from high volume roadways, but Study Area 7 and another study area along State Route 92 are designated as high and medium 
density residential.  
Б─╒
Revise Policy LU-P3.12 to encourage the design of publicly accessible spaces that people can intuitively know the space is for their use. 
Б─╒
Comments received on Policy LU-P3.14: 
o
This policy is the same policy as PS-P5.2. 
o
Policy is outdated and confusing, it needs wordsmithing. 
o
Delete the rest of the policy after the first sentence.
o
The school district and the City have a 55 year lease on Bayside Park. Maybe we can have a separate policy that references Bayside Park 
because that lease will come up at the end of this General Plan. 
Б─╒
Replace Б─°supportБ─² with Б─°prioritizeБ─² in Action LU-A4.1.
Б─╒
Action LU-A5.1 is missing what the alternative transportation is alternative to. Change Б─°alternative transportationБ─² to Б─°active transportationБ─².
Б─╒
Encourage buffers between people and cars in Policy LU-P5.2. Mention the CityБ─≥s tree planting plan here. There needs to be a discussion 
about downtown landscaping in this policy. 
267 of 317

--- page 268 ---
40
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Add an action about the pedestrian mall.
Б─╒
Revise Policy LU-P6.1 to say world class transit-oriented Б─°mixed useБ─² development. 
Б─╒
Concerned about including the term Б─°gentrificationБ─² in Policy LU-P8.2. 
Б─╒
Add green space where it says Б─°includes retail, services and housingБ─² in Policy LU-P7.1. 
Б─╒
Add biking and walking facilities to Action LU-A7.2, similar to Bridgepointe. 
Б─╒
Add a separate policy or action for the King Center instead of including it in Policy LU-P8.3. There is a need to enhance the King Center 
beyond maintaining it. Also, confirm if the park impact fees are only supposed to be for physical park improvements and address this in the 
action.
Б─╒
Identify other funding sources in Action LU-A8.3. 
Б─╒
Unsure if we should keep convenience markets in Policy LU-P8.5 since they do not typically provide healthy foods. 
Б─╒
Suggested revisions to Action LU-A8.5:
o
Maybe we can say Б─°balance safety improvements with optimizing the existing parking supplyБ─² or Б─°balance the design of the safety 
improvements.Б─²  
o
There was a North Central community based transportation plan that was well received. Reference the plan or maybe we need to 
complete a new plan, it received a lot of public support at that time. 
o
Possible new language Б─°the plan shall seek to make the North Central neighborhood streets a measurably safer place while improving 
accessibility for residents and visitors. Parking availability and access shall be featured as a factor in assessing the planning and design of 
projects. Changes shall be developed and enacted with the expressed purposes of improving health, safety, welfare and comfort for 
members of the communityБ─².
268 of 317

--- page 269 ---
41
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Add Б─°sanitationБ─² to Action LU-A8.6.
Б─╒
Comments received on Policy LU-P8.7: 
o Not sure this is within the CityБ─≥s purview; the County health department has been closely working on healthy food in school 
efforts. 
o This policy seems outdated. 
o There was a question about whether the school district has a meal program for the summer or if the City can help fill the gap. 
Historically, the school district does not provide food for the community in the summer only for summer school. 
o One subcommittee member asked if we could add language about Б─°explore or incentivize plant based foods in schoolsБ─², but a few
subcommittee members disagreed. 
o Maybe this policy should go beyond schools. Having fresh produce in neighborhoods is the key thing people need access to.
Б─╒
Modify Action LU-A8.7 to go beyond partnering with neighborhood organizations and instead also encourage neighborhood 
cleanliness and beautification programs that do not rely solely on volunteers and neighborhood organizations.  
Б─╒
Highlight how members of the public can influence development projects through community engagement under Goal LU-9.
Б─╒
Add child care in Policy LU-P9.1 as a feature of public meetings that will increase attendance. 
Б─╒
Add a policy or action about recycled water under Goal LU-10. Remove the word Б─°boldlyБ─² from this goal. 
Б─╒
Change Б─°reduceБ─² to Б─°eliminateБ─² in Policy LU-P10.2 since this is a long term plan. 
Б─╒
Change five years to three years in Action LU-A10.3 since the reach codes and building codes come out every three years. 
Б─╒
Improve the definition of  Б─°provide a living wageБ─² in Action LU-A11.1. Maybe we should say Б─°a wage that is indexed to the cost of 
livingБ─². 
Б─╒
Mention Б─°support remote work optionsБ─² and Б─°public wifiБ─² in Policy LU-P11.3 about telecommunications. 
Б─╒
Clarify what projects Action LU-A12.1 would apply to. This action is also not clear.
269 of 317

--- page 270 ---
42
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
There is no action for the Shoreview shopping center, only for the Bridgepoint and Bel Mateo shopping centers. Add an action for the 
Shoreview shopping center. 
Б─╒
Add an action about jobs housing balance. Mountain ViewБ─≥s East Whisman Precise Plan has a requirement of 3 units of housing to be built for 
every 1,000 feet of commercial. Redwood CityБ─≥s General plan also specifies a maximum additional residential capacity of 2,500 units, a 
maximum additional office capacity of 574,667 and a maximum additional retail capacity of 100,000 sq. ft. within their Downtown area. 
Would like to see a similar action in the General Plan. 
Б─╒
There is an area in the Land Use Map that is designated mixed use low right next to State Route 92, across from The Fish Market, City Council 
asked for this parcel to be designated as mixed use medium but it was recorded in the notes as mixed use low. Note to staff to go back and 
watch the recording to double check. 
Б─╒
Add an action to increase the urban tree canopy while maintaining existing trees as much as possible. Identify neighborhoods with less street 
tree canopy and adopt programs to add climate adapted trees to the right of ways and front yards of adjacent properties. 
Б─╒
Add an action under the Hillsdale Station Area about working with Caltrain to make the station accessible for biking.
Б─╒
Ensure there are roughly equal heights along contiguous blocks. There are some blocks where it goes from residential to mixed use. 
Important where it changes to residential and mixed use to have a consistent height between these types of land uses. 
Б─╒
Add mention about having less paved surfaces that reflect heat in our city under climate change and sustainability. 
Б─╒
Add a policy or action about green infrastructure in multi-unit developments under climate change and sustainability. 
Б─╒
Consider how Assembly Bill (AB) 297 would eliminate parking requirements for projects within a certain distance of transit. 
Б─╒
Think about how the City is moving towards reallocating the public space for a wider variety of uses that could be used by small businesses.
Б─╒
Mixed use should not only include office and residential, but it can also include commercial service type of uses. 
Б─╒
High speed rail is a huge land use issue that should be addressed further. Add a reference to preserving access to Downtown and 
neighborhoods.
270 of 317

--- page 271 ---
Community Design & 
Historic Preservation
271 of 317

--- page 272 ---
44
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ Natural Landscapes and the Urban Forest
Б─╒ Preserve and enhance San MateoБ─≥s natural 
setting as an irreplaceable asset and the physical 
foundation of the community. (Goal CD-1)
Б√╙Natural topography 
Б√╙View preservation
Б√╙Scenic roadways and trails
Б─╒ Protect heritage trees, street trees, and tree 
stands and maintain the health and condition of 
San MateoБ─≥s urban forest. (Goal CD-2)
Б√╙Heritage and street trees preservation
Б√╙Public education
Б√╙Tree planting
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Protected Trees Ordinance
272 of 317

--- page 273 ---
45
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ Historic Resources
Б─╒ Preserve historic and culturally important 
structures, assets, and districts to maintain San 
MateoБ─≥s special identity and continuity with the 
past. (Goal CD-3)
Б√╙Preservation incentives
Б√╙Districts
Б√╙Building definition
Б√╙Renovation and rehabilitation
Б√╙Alternatives to demolition
Б√╙Historic preservation funding
Б√╙Public education
Б√╙Historic building survey
Б√╙Historic preservation ordinance
Б√╙Historic design standards
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ National Historic Preservation Act
Б─╒ California Register of Historical Resources
Б─╒ California Environmental Quality Act
Б─╒ San Mateo Historic Preservation Ordinance
Б─╒ 1989 Historic Building Survey
273 of 317

--- page 274 ---
46
StriveSanMateo.org
Historic Resources 
in San Mateo Map
274 of 317

--- page 275 ---
47
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ City Image
Б─╒ Develop and maintain an attractive urban 
fabric that reflects San MateoБ─≥s unique 
character. (Goal CD-4)
Б√╙Social connections
Б√╙Gateways
Б√╙Sustainable design
Б√╙Public right-of-way improvements along El 
Camino Real
Б√╙Railroad corridor
Б√╙Signage
Б√╙Public open space design
Б√╙Public art
Б√╙Inclusive outreach
275 of 317

--- page 276 ---
48
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ Residential
Б─╒ Maintain and enhance the existing character 
and physical quality of residential 
neighborhoods through the appropriate design 
of new development. (Goal CD-5)
Б√╙Building mass and scale
Б√╙Low-density residential development objective 
design standard consistency
Б√╙Single-family and multi-family design
Б√╙Neighborhood character preservation
Б√╙Multi-family parking
Б√╙Multi-family open space
Б√╙Single-family and multi-family objective design 
standards
Б√╙Accessory dwelling units and junior dwelling 
units design
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code
276 of 317

--- page 277 ---
49
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ Mixed-Use and Commercial Areas
Б─╒ Improve the visual character, livability, and 
vitality of mixed-use and commercial areas. 
(Goal CD-6)
Б√╙Objective design standards consistency
Б√╙Pedestrian oriented design
Б√╙Respect existing scale
Б√╙Building orientation to street
Б√╙Commercial parking
Б√╙Commercial transitions
Б√╙Outdoor display and eating 
Б√╙Objective design standards for new mixed-
use and commercial development
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code
277 of 317

--- page 278 ---
50
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Design & Historic Preservation
б╩ Area Specific Design Policies
Б─╒ North Central 
Б─╒ Shoreview
Б─╒ Marine Lagoon/Bridgepointe
Б─╒ Northwest Heights
Б─╒ Sunnybrae/Hayward Park
Б─╒ Beresford Park
Б─╒ Hillsdale
Б─╒ Sugarloaf
Б─╒ Western Hills
Б─╒ Others
б╩ Policies to be further developed as issues/topics identified through  
community outreach and input
278 of 317

--- page 279 ---
51
StriveSanMateo.org
San Mateo 
Neighborhoods/Areas 
North Central
Shoreview
Marine Lagoon
Bridgepointe
Northwest
Heights
Sunnybrae
Hayward Park
Downtown
Beresford Park
Western Hills
Hillsdale
Sugarloaf
Glendale 
Village
Northwest
Heights
279 of 317

--- page 280 ---
52
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Feedback
б╩ Preserve historic resources
б╩ Strengthen historic resource policies
б╩ Maintain San MateoБ─≥s character
280 of 317

--- page 281 ---
53
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Aspire to make El Camino Real a space to spend time, not only a space to rush through. 
Б─╒
Replace Б─°pedestrian-orientedБ─² with Б─°people-oriented.Б─² 
Б─╒
Throughout the design-related policies, shift language to be less subjective and more objective. 
Б─╒
Include objective standards to preserve historic resources
Б─╒
Add language that emphasizes the importance of keeping architectural details at the human-scale.
Б─╒
Acknowledge the important architectural features of traditional pre-war architecture that should be carried forward in new 
development downtown. 
Б─╒
Preserving cherished and beautiful historic buildings is important, but historic preservation should not be weaponized to 
prevent homeowners from upgrading their own property or to prevent needed new housing.
Б─╒
Define Б─°characterБ─² to clarify that it refers to visual or architectural rather than social characteristics. 
Б─╒
The General Plan should address historic preservation at a general level of detail and not get into the weeds; the Historic 
Preservation Ordinance and State and federal regulations should provide more detail. 
281 of 317

--- page 282 ---
54
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Goal CD-2 should reference preserving heritage trees Б─°where feasible.Б─² Sometimes old trees are dangerous and need to be 
removed. Goal CD-2 should also reference median trees. 
Б─╒
Policies and actions under Goal CD-3 should be broadened to refer to historic Б─°assets,Б─² not only buildings, consistent with 
the wording of the goal. Consider adding policies or actions under Goal CD-3 to adopt incentives for property owners to 
preserve and/or restore historic assets. 
Б─╒
In response to Goal CD-4 about City Image, some GPS members expressed that San Mateo has lost a sense of a identity that 
distinguishes it from other Peninsula cities, and that the General Plan could be an opportunity to clarify what makes San 
Mateo unique. Some ideas were Downtown, dining, Hillsdale Mall, and the San Mateo Bridge. A unique identity should be 
consistently expressed through signage and other City materials. 
Б─╒
Under Goal CD-5, delete Policy CD-P5.1 regarding building mass and scale. This policy is too vague and is not needed; the 
desired outcomes are addressed more clearly and explicitly in other policies under this goal. 
Б─╒
Consider adding area-specific design policies for the San Mateo Park and Baywood-Aragon neighborhoods. 
282 of 317

--- page 283 ---
Safety
283 of 317

--- page 284 ---
56
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations
Б─╒ Minimize potential damage to life, environment, and property through timely, 
well-prepared and well-coordinated emergency preparedness, response plans, 
and programs. (Goal S-1)
Б√╙Emergency Readiness
Б√╙Local Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б√╙Location of Critical Facilities
Б√╙Multiple Egress Points
Б√╙Emergency Planning Document Coordination
Б√╙Emergency Infrastructure and Equipment
Б√╙Defensible Design
Б√╙Response Times
Б√╙Local Utility Cooperation
Б√╙Disaster Recovery
Б√╙Evacuation Education
Б√╙Inclusive Outreach
Б√╙Evacuation Routes
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Б─╒ San Mateo County Department of Emergency  
Management
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ County of San Mateo Emergency Operations 
Plan
Б─╒ San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Б─╒ San Mateo County Flood and Sea Level Rise 
Resiliency District
Б─╒ OneShoreline
284 of 317

--- page 285 ---
57
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Emergency Readiness and Emergency Operations (CONT.)
Б─╒ Minimize potential damage to life, environment, and property through 
timely, well-prepared and well-coordinated emergency preparedness, 
response plans, and programs. (Goal S-1)
Б√╙Regular Updates
Б√╙Automatic and Mutual Aid Agreements
Б√╙Rebuilding Priorities
Б√╙Resilient Power Systems
Б√╙Public Safety Outreach
Б√╙Community Training
Б√╙Emergency Infrastructure and Equipment
Б√╙Continuity of Operations
Б√╙Response Time Study 
Б√╙Emergency Notification System
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ San Mateo County Department of 
Emergency  Management
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ County of San Mateo Emergency 
Operations Plan
Б─╒ San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
285 of 317

--- page 286 ---
58
StriveSanMateo.org
Fire and Police 
Stations in San Mateo
286 of 317

--- page 287 ---
59
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Geotechnical Hazards
Б─╒ Take steps to protect the community from unreasonable risk to life and 
property caused by seismic and geologic hazards. (Goal S-2)
Б√╙Geologic Hazards
Б√╙Landslides and Erosion Control
Б√╙Unreinforced Masonry Buildings
Б√╙Liquefaction
Б√╙Seismic Shaking Mapping
Б√╙Incentives for Seismic Upgrades
Б√╙Seismic Stability
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zoning Act
Б─╒ California Building Code
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code Title 23 - Buildings 
and Construction
287 of 317

--- page 288 ---
60
StriveSanMateo.org
Slope Stability and 
Liquefaction
288 of 317

--- page 289 ---
61
StriveSanMateo.org
Shaking Amplification 
During Earthquakes
289 of 317

--- page 290 ---
62
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Flood Hazards
Б─╒ Protect the community from 
unreasonable risk to life and property 
caused by flood hazards. (Goal S-3)
Б√╙Development within Floodplains
Б√╙Floodplain Ordinance Update
Б√╙Flood Risk Mapping Data
Б√╙Community Rating System
Б√╙Early Flood Warning
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local Hazard 
Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ OneShoreline
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.33 -
Floodplain Management
290 of 317

--- page 291 ---
63
StriveSanMateo.org
Potential Flood Hazards
291 of 317

--- page 292 ---
64
StriveSanMateo.org
Potential Dam and 
Levee Failure
292 of 317

--- page 293 ---
65
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Sea Level Rise
Б─╒ Develop regionally coordinated 
sea level rise adaption measures 
and programs. (Goal S-4)
Б√╙Sea Level Rise Data and Monitoring
Б√╙Sea Level Rise Planning
Б√╙Rising Groundwater Protection
Б√╙Natural Infrastructure
Б√╙OneShoreline Coordination
Б√╙Removal of Hard Infrastructure
Б√╙City Sea Level Rise Staff
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ OneShoreline
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.33 -
Floodplain Management
293 of 317

--- page 294 ---
66
StriveSanMateo.org
Projected Sea Level Rise
294 of 317

--- page 295 ---
67
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Wildfire Hazards
Б─╒ Maintain adequate fire and life 
safety protection from wildland fires. 
(Goal S-5)
Б√╙Wildland Fire Protection
Б√╙Wildland-Urban Interface
Б√╙Fire Risk Mapping
Б√╙Firefighting Infrastructure and Facilities
Б√╙Land Use Management for Fire Risks
Б√╙Tree Trimming
Б√╙Fire-Safe Education
Б√╙Fire Hazard History
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Cal Fire
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
Б─╒ Santa Cruz County San Mateo County 
Community Wildfire Protection Plan
295 of 317

--- page 296 ---
68
StriveSanMateo.org
Wildfire Hazard Zones
296 of 317

--- page 297 ---
69
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Hazardous Materials
Б─╒ Protect the communityБ─≥s health, safety, and welfare relating to the use, 
storage, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials. (Goal S-6)
Б√╙County Cooperation
Б√╙County Hazardous Waste Management Plan
Б√╙Transportation Routes
Б√╙Hazardous Waste Management 
Facilities Location
Б√╙Design of Hazardous Waste 
Management Facilities
Б√╙Risk Assessment
Б√╙Contaminated Sites
Б√╙Cost Recovery
Б√╙Shared Data
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ California Division of Occupational Safety and 
Health
Б─╒ California Office of Emergency Services
Б─╒ Dept of Toxic Substances Controls (DTSC)
Б─╒ County of San Mateo Emergency Operations Plan
Б─╒ San Mateo County Multijurisdictional Local 
Hazard Mitigation Plan
297 of 317

--- page 298 ---
70
StriveSanMateo.org
Safety Resources
б╩ Energy Supply
Б─╒ Promote the development of a clean energy supply, state-of-the-art 
technology, and telecommunications facilities that benefit the public. 
(Goal S-7)
Б√╙Clean Energy
Б√╙Building Electrification
Б√╙Energy Resilience
Б√╙Service Improvement and Expansion
Б√╙Access and Availability
Б√╙Clean Fuel Infrastructure
Б√╙Utility Undergrounding
Other Important Agencies/Plans 
Б─╒ Peninsula Clean Energy
Б─╒ Pacific Gas and Electric
Б─╒ California Green Building Standards Code
Б─╒ San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.34 -
Energy Code
Б─╒ Climate Action Plan
298 of 317

--- page 299 ---
71
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Feedback
б╩ Plan for sea level rise
б╩ Ensure grid can support increased electrical demand
б╩ Plan for increased wildfire risk
299 of 317

--- page 300 ---
72
StriveSanMateo.org
GPS Feedback
Б─╒
Support efforts to underground utilities. 
Б─╒
Revise the examples in Policy S-P1.7 to include data-driven defensible design examples. 
Б─╒
Consider vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and bicyclists, in Policy S-P1.8 and Action S-A1.10. Do not 
support expansion of Highway 101 and other roadways. Focus on designing roads that help prevent traffic fatalities. 
There should be a reference somewhere in the language that addresses roadway design for vulnerable users. 
Б─╒
Revise Policy S-P5.6 to ensure monitoring of peakload water supply is occurring by the appropriate entity. 
Б─╒
Add policies and actions to reduce per capita energy use, such as Б─°encourage energy use reduction by incentivizing 
active transportation and reducing single occupant vehicle useБ─². Another policy could be Б─°encourage the creation of 
energy efficient homes, businesses, and other buildingsБ─². Possible actions could be Б─°encourage energy use reduction 
through the creation of safe and comfortable opportunities for active transport modes by implementing the CityБ─≥s 
pedestrian and bicycle master plan and focusing new development near major transit nodesБ─². Another action could 
be encouraging the installation of energy efficient home insulation, weather sealing and other physical means to 
reduce heating and cooling needs through greater Title 24 building efficiency. 
Б─╒
Cover energy saving appliances and electric appliances. 
300 of 317

--- page 301 ---
Clarifying Questions?
301 of 317

--- page 302 ---
Public Comment
302 of 317

--- page 303 ---
Planning Commission 
Discussion
303 of 317

--- page 304 ---
76
StriveSanMateo.org
Planning Commission Discussion
б╩
Provide comments by element
Б─╒ Land Use
Б─╒ Community Design and Historic Preservation 
Б─╒ Safety
б╩
Discussion questions:
Б─╒ What do you support about these policies and actions?
Б─╒ Is there anything you would add or change?
Б─╒ Are there any policy topics missing?
Б─╒ Should any of the policies be changed from a recommendation to a requirement or vice versa?
Б─╒ Are there additional specific actions that should be added to support implementation of the policies?
б╩
Provide a recommendation to the City Council on the Goals, Polices and Actions that 
should be included in the CityБ─≥s Draft General Plan Update
б╩
Keep discussion focused on content; please email grammatical or typographical 
edits to generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
304 of 317

--- page 305 ---
Backup Slides
Preferred Land Use Maps by Study 
Area
305 of 317

--- page 306 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
| San Mateo City Limit
[) Sphere of Influence
1.71 Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
Fl Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
Б─°"' 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
~__ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[__] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Study Area I-N StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 307 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
| San Mateo City Limit
| Sphere of Influence
1.71 Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
FI Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
Tt 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
|_| 2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HBB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[_] Transportation Corridor

Utilities
Study Area 1-C StriveSanMateo.org



--- page 308 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
} San Mateo City Limit
[) Sphere of Influence

peeee

1... Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(9) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
*Б─²*" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
DN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
1) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[__] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Study Area 1-S StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 309 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

E 40th Ave

Orinda Dr

(2) Study Areas
r} San Mateo City Limit
[) Sphere of Influence
George Ave 1... Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
F) Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
Б─≤ie 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
{__. 2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HBB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
1) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[_] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

0 0.1 0,2
@) Miles slate inlcaale StriveSanMateo.org

Gillis Dr



--- page 310 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
| San Mateo City Limit
(=) Sphere of Influence

1) GR, vount Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
YY (@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
Yf y FE] Caltrain Station
y Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
*Б─²*" 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

Festa <= j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

_ = \ Housing Element - Adequate Sites

Pipeline Projects

___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)

HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)

HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)

1 BEB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)

| (NN office Low (1-3 stories)

HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)

HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)

HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)

HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)

HB Parks/ Open Space

I) Public Facilities

BN Quasi-Public

[__] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Texas Way,

6
ry)
Б─²
&
o-
9
Б─≤

Study Area 3

StriveSanMateo.org



--- page 311 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
| San Mateo City Limit
(=) Sphere of Influence

1.2! Historic Districts

* Property Owner Requests

(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space

1 Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
***"* 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites
S22 Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
~__ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)

Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HB Parks/ Open Space
cain ONS OXY, OD Public Facilities
5, x BN Quasi-Public

[__] Transportation Corridor
Utilities

б╒
a)
3)

D
z
б╝

Study Area 4

StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 312 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
} San Mateo City Limit
[= ) Sphere of Influence
1.27 Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
() Privately Owned Public Open Space
f] Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
lt 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_..1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sit Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
___ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HW Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
1) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
HB Quasi-Public
[__] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Study Are@nd ganMateo.org


--- page 313 ---
~~ \| City Council Preferred Scenario

(J Study Areas
 } San Mateo City Limit
[) Sphere of Influence
t__.* Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
() Privately Owned Public Open Space
fl Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
oe 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_..1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites
220 Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
Ee Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
~__ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HW Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
1) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
Overina by 9 , % | HBB Quasi-Public
9 [__] Transportation Corridor
Utilities

iq eiopusiS

Palos Verdes Ct

g
б╝
2
2
C)
2
2
ro

Creekridge Ct

Study Areenц╘ ganMateo.org


--- page 314 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

(2) Study Areas
} San Mateo City Limit
[) Sphere of Influence
__-* Historic Districts

* Property Owner Requests

(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
Б─≤ie 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites
:: Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
_ Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)

Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)

I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[__] Transportation Corridor
Utilities

Study Area 7

StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 315 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
| San Mateo City Limit
| Sphere of Influence
1.71 Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
Fl Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
* 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
|_| 2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HBB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Fertpude De Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[_] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Texas Way
Dublin Way
Trinity St
Sullivan St

Study Area 8 StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 316 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

a Study Areas
} San Mateo City Limit
Sphere of Influence

peeee

1... Historic Districts

* Property Owner Requests

Б─°oaner 9 (9) Privately Owned Public Open Space
1 Caltrain Station

Б─■Б─■ Caltrain

Б─≤~~ 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain

j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain

Housing Element - Adequate Sites

sii! Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HO) Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
I) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
WN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
1) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HBB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
LC] Transportation Corridor

Utilities

Study Area 9 StriveSanMateo.org


--- page 317 ---
City Council Preferred Scenario

(J Study Areas
} San Mateo City Limit
(=) Sphere of Influence
__-* Historic Districts
* Property Owner Requests
(@) Privately Owned Public Open Space
Fl Caltrain Station
Б─■Б─■ Caltrain
***"* 1,000 Foot Buffer Around Caltrain
j_.1 б╔2 Mile Radius Around Caltrain
Housing Element - Adequate Sites
2255 Pipeline Projects
___ Residential Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
HN) Residential Medium (4-/ stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HBB Residential High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
Commercial Service (1-3 stories)
HN Commercial Regional (3+ stories)
HB Commercial Neighborhood (1-2 stories)
IY) Office Low (1-3 stories)
HN Office Medium (4-7 stories)
HBB Office High (8+ stories)
Research and Development (3+ stories)
HN Traditional Light Industrial (3+ stories)
Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9 to 39 du/ac)
I) Mixed-Use Medium (4-7 stories, 40-99 du/ac)
HB Mixed-Use High (8+ stories, 100 to 200 du/ac)
HBB Parks/ Open Space
I) Public Facilities
BN Quasi-Public
[_] Transportation Corridor
Utilities

Study Area 10 StriveSanMateo.org
