Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Oakland CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Jul 07 2026

OVERVIEW

The Oakland Police Department utilizes Flock Safety technology to capture and use digital evidence from automated license plate reader (ALPR) cameras, in addition to employing real-time alerts and hotlists of vehicles, to help investigate and prevent crime.

The Oakland Police Department also recognizes the established privacy rights of the public and this portal aims to provide transparency to the community as it relates to how OPD uses this technology.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates and Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial Recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

All ALPR alerts shall be verified through the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (CLETS) before possibly taking enforcement action. Please refer to DGO I-12 for further details.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, enforcement for obtaining, providing, or supporting reproductive healthcare services, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e., race, sex, religion), personal use.

Access Policy

Department sworn personnel, police service technicians, or other authorized/designated Department personnel may use the technology; all others must be designated by the Chief of Police or Designee. Data may not be shared with out of state or federal agencies. Please refer to DGO I-12 for further details.

Hotlist Policy

The Department shall only use the following hot lists: Stolen Vehicle System ("SVS"), National Crime Information Center ("NCIC") lists, CA DOJ lists, Amber and Silver alerts, and custom BOLO lists pertaining solely to missing or at-risk persons, witness locates, burglaries, grant theft, and violent crime investigation. Please refer to DGO I-12 for further details.
USAGE

Number of Owned Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

293

Data Retention (days)

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Hotlists Alerted On

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert, Custom Hot Lists

Vehicles Detected in the Last 30 Days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

1,658,617

Hotlist Hits in the Last 30 Days

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

11,396

Searches in the Last 30 Days

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

2,542

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
ADDITIONAL INFO

OPD Policy: DGO I-12 - Automated License Plate Readers

https://public.powerdms.com/OAKLAND/documents/3622083

Provided by Flock Safety