--- page 1 ---
Overview
The Oakland Police Department utilizes Flock Safety technology to capture and use digital evidence from automated
license plate reader (ALPR) cameras, in addition to employing real-time alerts and hotlists of vehicles, to help
investigate and prevent crime.
The Oakland Police Department also recognizes the established privacy rights of the public and this portal aims to
provide transparency to the community as it relates to how OPD uses this technology.
Policies
What's Detected
License Plates and Vehicles
What's Not Detected
Facial Recognition, People, Gender, Race
Acceptable Use Policy
All ALPR alerts shall be verified through the
California Law Enforcement
Telecommunications System (CLETS) before
possibly taking enforcement action. Please
refer to DGO I-12 for further details.
Prohibited Uses
Immigration enforcement, enforcement for
obtaining, providing, or supporting reproductive
healthcare services, harassment or intimidation,
usage based solely on a protected class (i.e.,
race, sex, religion), personal use.
Access Policy
Department sworn personnel, police service
technicians, or other authorized/designated
Department personnel may use the technology;
all others must be designated by the Chief of
Police or Designee. Data may not be shared
with out of state or federal agencies. Please
refer to DGO I-12 for further details.
Hotlist Policy
The Department shall only use the following
hot lists: Stolen Vehicle System ("SVS"),
National Crime Information Center ("NCIC")
lists, CA DOJ lists, Amber and Silver alerts, and
custom BOLO lists pertaining solely to missing
Usage
Number of Owned Cameras
293
Data Retention (days)
30 days
Hotlists Alerted On
California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert, Custom
Hot Lists
Vehicles Detected in the Last 30 Days
1,482,421
Hotlist Hits in the Last 30 Days
99,341
Searches in the Last 30 Days
2,387
Public Search Audit
Download CSV
Oakland CA PD
Transparency Portal
Last Updated: Tue Apr 21 2026

--- page 2 ---
or at-risk persons, witness locates, burglaries,
grant theft, and violent crime investigation.
Please refer to DGO I-12 for further details.
Additional Info
OPD Policy: DGO I-12 - Automated License Plate Readers
https://public.powerdms.com/OAKLAND/documents/3622083
Provided by Flock Safety