source: packet.pdf
sha256: d66ad87882371e9040ffafd28f5481af5e34d86026eadbfa4a8480d17884b54a
pages: 21
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
January 30, 2021
9:00 AM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN­PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Saturday, January 30, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638‐0968      
Conference ID: 818 7873 7512     Passcode: 774744
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
This the opportunity for the public to comment on Council’s Strategic Plan and Objectives for fiscal year 2021‐22 before Council
proceeds with its working session. A total amount of 30 minutes will be allotted for public comments. Individual speakers only.
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
Mid‐Year Budget Update – Supplemental Budget Appropriation
Receive the 2020‐21 mid‐year budget update and adopt a Resolution to appropriate $0.4 million of
reimbursement revenues in the General Fund for the Police Department operating budget, transfer $0.6
million in Capital Improvement Project project funding for the Central Park Garage Repair Project from the
Downtown Parking and Security Fund to the Parking In‐Lieu Fund, and approve increasing the permitted
funding of the Sewer Lateral Program by $225,000 using existing Sewer Fund budget appropriations.
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
2.
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year
2021‐22.
ADJOURNMENT
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
(continue next page)
1 of 21

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. Friday, January 29, 2021.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 21

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-4051-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
January 19, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Mid-Year Budget Update – Supplemental Budget Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive the 2020-21 mid-year budget update and adopt a Resolution to appropriate $0.4 million of reimbursement 
revenues in the General Fund for the Police Department operating budget, transfer $0.6 million in Capital Improvement 
Project project funding for the Central Park Garage Repair Project from the Downtown Parking and Security Fund to the 
Parking In-Lieu Fund, and approve increasing the permitted funding of the Sewer Lateral Program by $225,000 using 
existing Sewer Fund budget appropriations.
BACKGROUND:
The 2020-21 budget was adopted by the City Council on June 15, 2020, which reflected assumptions and estimates for 
revenues and expenditures based on available information. This report serves to provide an update on the City's current 
financial condition, and where it is anticipated to end the fiscal year based on the year-to-date results. The primary focus 
of the report is the General Fund, which is the City's primary fund, as it accounts for nearly all of the City's tax revenues as 
well as the City's core operations, including public safety, city administration, parks and recreation, and library. 
GENERAL FUND REVENUES
The adopted 2020-21 budget assumed $129.0 million in total General Fund revenues. Based on year-to-date results, 
General Fund total revenues are projected to end the year at $126.8 million; $2.2 million or 1.7% less than expected. The 
narrative below will review notable revenue categories that constitute much of the variance.
Property Tax
Current Year Secured
The adopted 2020-21 budget projected that the City would receive $63.5 million in property tax, which represents 49% of 
total General Fund budgeted revenue, and affirms its status of being the City’s primary revenue source. Based on year-to-
date property tax revenues, projections from the County of San Mateo, and projections from the City’s property tax 
consultant, total property tax revenues are projected to be $66.6 million - $3.1 million more than the adopted 2020-21 
budget. Each of the notable property tax types contributing to the favorable budget variance are discussed in detail below.
Current Year Secured
At $38.8 million, current year secured is the largest component of property tax revenues. Staff projects that current year 
secured property tax revenues will be $41.7 million, or $2.9 million more than the budget assumption, reflecting a greater 
3 of 21

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
increase in assessed value than assumed. 
Excess ERAF
In 1992, in order to remedy its budget balancing struggles, the State of California instructed county auditors to shift local 
property tax revenues from cities, counties, and non-education special districts to the Educational Revenue Augmentation 
Fund (ERAF) to offset the State’s responsibility to fund public schools. In 2004, California Voters passed Proposition 1A, 
which constitutionally protects major city revenues from being diverted to school districts or the state, but ERAF, 
(specifically ERAF I and II) was omitted from the protections afforded via Prop 1A.
In 2013, the State of California implemented the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF), which changed the way in which 
school districts were allotted funding. School districts that are able to meet their minimum funding requirement through 
property taxes are categorized as basic aid, while school districts that do not generate sufficient funding from property 
taxes to meet their minimum funding requirement (and thus meet the minimum by being allocated ERAF funds) are 
categorized as non-basic aid. In San Mateo County, there are 26 school districts. 20 are projected to be basic aid, and 6 are 
projected to be non-basic aid. As such, San Mateo County is one of only five counties in the State of California that has 
Excess ERAF available that is allocated back to taxing entities, as these funds represent property tax that was originally 
taken from them in order to fund ERAF. 
The adopted 2020-21 budget projected $4.0 million in Excess ERAF revenue, which is notably less than prior years, which 
largely reflected a dispute between the State of California and the five counties noted earlier that generate Excess ERAF of 
how ERAF is calculated. As such, $180 million in Excess ERAF from three prior years had been retained by San Mateo 
County until the dispute can be resolved and definitive guidance from the State Controller’s Office (SCO) is provided to 
counties. Based on year-to-date revenues and projected remittances to be received this month, the year-end estimate for 
Excess ERAF is projected to be $5.8 million, or $1.8 million more than the adopted budget, which is largely due to the 
county releasing $85.4 million of the $180.0 million that had been retained due to the dispute with the State. Going 
forward, the impact of the SCO guidance on Excess ERAF is unknown. We will continue to monitor this issue, collaborate 
with San Mateo County officials through the San Mateo Finance Officers’ Group (SAMFOG), keep the City Council apprised 
of developments, and update projections from the 10-year plan accordingly.
Property Tax In Lieu of Vehicle License Fees
In 2004, as a part of the budget agreement between the state and local governments that resulted in Proposition 1A, the 
Legislature approved a swap of property tax for vehicle license fees (VLF) that the state had been paring down in prior 
years. This revenue source can only be funded by property tax from non-basic aid school districts. Given the 
preponderance of basic aid school districts in San Mateo County, there are not enough non-basic aid school districts to 
generate enough property tax to backfill the amount owed to local municipalities. County officials are projecting a $69.5 
million shortfall for the current fiscal year, the City’s share of which is $4.1 million. This follows a $10.1 million shortfall in 
2019-20, which the county submitted a claim for consideration in the state’s 2021-22 budget. County officials anticipate 
that over the next six to seven years, every school district in the county will reach basic aid status. As such, absent any 
legislative change, a scenario of no non-basic aid school districts in the county in six years would result in an approximate 
property tax in lieu of VLF county-wide shortfall of upwards of $270 million, with the City’s share of the potential shortfall 
in excess of $16.0 million. Given the magnitude of this matter, a subcommittee of the San Mateo County City Managers’ 
Group will be taking the lead on working with state representatives to address this issue. 
Sales Tax
The adopted 2020-21 budget projected that the City would receive $18.0 million in local 1% sales tax (pursuant to the 
Bradley Burns Uniform Sales and Use Tax Law), and $5.5 million in Measure S, the City’s ¼ cent transactions and use tax. 
The budgeted revenues reflected the estimated impact of COVID-19 on the City’s businesses. Based on current projections 
from the City’s sales tax consultant, both the local 1% sales tax and Measure S revenues are projected to be in alignment 
4 of 21

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
with budget assumptions. The City’s sales tax consultant projects that the economic recovery from the recession brought 
on by COVID-19 will take approximately three years to return to pre-pandemic sales tax levels.
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT)
The adopted 2020-21 budget assumed sustained low occupancy for the first quarter of the fiscal year and would recover to 
50% occupancy in the second quarter. However, due to the immediate, severe, and ongoing impact of COVID-19 on 
tourism, consistent with the trends that were reported to the City Council during the financial update in October 2020, the 
City’s November 2020 year-to-date TOT revenues are approximately 10% in comparison to the same period in the prior 
year. As such, staff projects austere TOT revenues of $0.5 million at year end. 
Golf Fees
Even in the most restrictive stay-at-home order, fortunately, golf remains a permitted activity. As such, while the adopted 
2020-21 budget of $2.1 million anticipated a considerable impact from COVID-19 on golf operations, revenues from golf 
fees are estimated to be $2.9 million. Consistent with the favorable trend reported during the financial update from 
October 2020, metrics continue to perform well, including the number of rounds played, green fees collected, and range 
fees collected, which are 12.7%, 21.3%, and 49.5% more than the same period in the prior year, respectively.
Recreation Service Charges
In contrast to the favorable trend in golf operations, the City’s ability to offer in-person recreation classes has been 
significantly limited by the varying degree of restrictions from the accompanying county health orders. While the adopted 
budget of $3.9 million reflected an expected reduction of in-person offerings, it did not assume a reduction of the current 
magnitude. As such, revenues from recreation service charges are projected to be $1.1 million by year end based on year-
to-date revenues and the ongoing impact of the pandemic on the City’s ability to offer in-person recreation classes. While 
the projected $2.8 million budget variance is significant, the operating budget associated with providing recreation classes 
is projecting a significant favorable variance. 
Permits, Fees, and Fines
In January 2019, the City Council conducted a study session to discuss parking enforcement. Staff provided a history of the 
challenges associated with staffing this function and described the enforcement level of service at that time, which did not 
meet a “reactive” (as-needed or complaint-driven) level of service. After evaluating potential service models, the Council 
provided direction to pursue a hybrid model with a mix of City and contracted enforcement staff to enhance service 
delivery and enforcement frequency. In November 2019, the City Council approved an agreement with Serco, Inc. for 
parking enforcement services. Based on the enhanced service level, parking citation activity was expected to be elevated 
in the initial months, then plateau after the first year. The elevated parking citation activity was projected to increase 
citation revenues by approximately $1.1 million, which served as the impetus for the adopted 2020-21 budget assumption 
of $2.1 million in parking citation revenues. November 2020 year-to-date revenues of $0.4 million are representative of 
the impact of COVID-19 on downtown businesses and likely, a need to revise the City’s assumption for the revenue impact 
of enhanced parking enforcement. As such, the year-end estimate for parking citation revenues is $1.1 million, and the 
primary contributor to the unfavorable projected budget variance of $1.5 million for the permits, fees, and fines revenue 
category. 
Intergovernmental
The adopted 2020-21 budget assumed that the City would account for $3.2 million in intergovernmental revenues, which 
includes $0.5 million in total interagency staffing reimbursements from the San Mateo Unified High School District 
(SMUHSD) and the San Mateo Foster City School District (SMFCSD) for the school resource officer program.  Since March, 
the School Resource Officers (SROs) funded by the School Districts have not been in the schools performing SRO duties.  
5 of 21

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The SRO position funded by the City continues to provide service to the schools.  It is unknown whether the district-funded 
positions will resume this fiscal year.  Therefore the $0.5 million in revenue from SMUHSD and SMFCSD will not be 
realized.  
The City was allocated $1.3 million in CARES Act funding from the federal government through the State of California (as 
the primary recipient). Allocation of the CARES Act funding for local municipalities was determined as a part of the state’s 
2020-21 budget adoption in June 2020. These funds were originally accounted for in fiscal year (FY) 2019-20, however, in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the funds will be accounted for in FY 2020-21, as the 
appropriation of the funds at the state level were not available until July 1, 2020. 
Accounting for the loss of SRO reimbursements from SMUHSD and SMFCSD and the City’s CARES Act allocation, 
Intergovernmental revenues are projected to end the year at $3.6 million or $0.4 million more than the adopted budget.
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES
The adopted 2020-21 budget included General Fund total expenditures of $136.9 million, which incorporated $4.3 million 
in reductions in response to the immediate and severe financial impact of COVID-19 - a $1.3 million across-the-board 
reduction in the General Fund operating budget, and a $3.0 million hiring freeze for any positions that were funded 
directly or indirectly by the General Fund. General Fund total expenditures are projected to end the year at $133.6 million, 
or $4.2 million less than the amended 2020-21 budget. 
The projected budget savings is largely manifest in the Library and Parks and Recreation budgets due to cancellation or a 
shift to virtual offerings of events, programs, and classes as well as closure of public amenities as a result of the pandemic 
and the restrictions of the accompanying health orders. 
From the beginning of fiscal year 2020-21 through December 2020, the Apple Store at the Hillsdale Shopping Center has 
requested a uniformed police officer to provide a visible safety presence in stores.  These shifts have been filled on 
overtime, with Apple reimbursing the City for the costs.  The presence of a uniformed officer is a deterrent for theft, and 
also serves to enhance response time for other crimes which occur at the Shopping Center.  The Police Department is 
requesting a budget appropriation of $0.4 million, which is fully offset by reimbursement revenues from Apple to cover the 
costs incurred to date in 2020-21.  Apple has recently closed all of their California stores indefinitely due to the pandemic 
and current health orders.  If the detail at the Apple Store resumes during this fiscal year, then an additional budget 
appropriation, fully offset by reimbursement revenues, will likely be necessary.   
OTHER FUNDS
Construction Services Fund
The Construction Services Fund accounts for building permit revenues and expenditures for activities related to the review 
of private development projects to achieve high quality and long-term economic growth in the City. The adjusted 2020-21 
budget for the Construction Services Fund anticipated $8.8 million in revenues and $10.3 million in expenditures. Based on 
year-to-date actuals, total revenues are projected to be aligned with budget, which primarily reflects 1) the responsiveness 
of the Community Development Department to set up an online permit portal to sustain service levels; and 2) the 
continued demand for permit services and robust development in the City. Total expenditures are projected to be $6.7 
million, which accounts for staff vacancy budget savings and professional services that were budgeted for but not used to 
the degree anticipated, including outside plan check services, as the demand has largely been met using staff resources.
Downtown Parking and Security Fund
The Downtown Parking and Security Fund accounts for parking and other related services in downtown San Mateo, along 
with parking enforcement services throughout the City. Expenditures in this fund include downtown parking operations, 
6 of 21

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
facilities maintenance, security, planning, and parking enforcement. Revenues in this fund primarily come from parking 
meters, but also lease revenues from retail tenant spaces located at the City’s Main Street and Transit Center Garages. The 
adjusted 2020-21 budget projected $5.3 million in revenues and $4.6 million in expenditures. Based on year-to-date 
actuals, by year-end, revenues are projected to be $2.7 million and expenditures are projected to be $3.7 million. The 
decline in parking meter revenue is the primary driver for the unfavorable budget variance in revenues, reflecting the 
impact of the pandemic on downtown parking and local commerce. The $0.9 million favorable budget variance in 
expenditures is largely from operating savings due to contractual services that have not been required to the degree 
anticipated in the budget.
The Downtown Parking and Security Fund ended the prior fiscal year with $4.1 million in cash and $3.8 million in fund 
balance, of which $1.1 million was reserved for carryover encumbrances and $2.9 million was reserved for Capital 
Improvement Project (CIP) projects. The remaining deficit $0.2 million in unrestricted fund balance, which is the difference 
between the $3.8 million in total fund balance and the amounts reserved for encumbrances and CIP, represents the 
amount that the fund is overcommitted. With a projected ending net reduction in fund balance of $1.0 million for 2020-21, 
in order to ensure that the fund is favorably dispositioned in the short term, staff from the Public Works Department and 
City Manager’s Office are reviewing CIP project commitments to determine which can be uncommitted (and have the 
associated fund balance reclassified as unrestricted) or deferred to a future period. 
So far, staff has identified the Central Park Garage Repair Project as one that can release committed fund balance back to 
the Downtown Parking and Security Fund unrestricted fund balance. The project is budgeted for $1.6 million, all from the 
Downtown Parking and Security Fund. The structural improvements included in the project are also eligible for Parking In-
Lieu funds. Staff recommends that the City Council approve transferring $0.6 million of the project funding from the 
Downtown Parking and Security Fund to the Parking In-Lieu Fund.  This, along with approximately $0.4 million in expected 
savings from the project, will add approximately $1.0 million back to the unrestricted fund balance.
Sewer Fund
The Sewer Fund accounts for the sewer collection systems, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), and disposal 
facilities. The adjusted 2020-21 budget projected $63.5 million in revenues, and year-end revenues are projected to be 
$66.2 million. The primary revenue source for the fund are sewer service charges, which represent 87% of total budgeted 
revenues. Sewer service charges are submitted to the county each year to be collected as a part of the property tax bill. 
Sewer service charges are considered part of secured property tax with respect to the Teeter Plan, in which a county 
commits to remitting 100% of secured property taxes, and in exchange, the county gets to keep penalties and interest. As 
such, sewer service charges are projected to be aligned with the budget.
The adjusted 2020-21 budget projected $41.3 million in expenses. Based on year-to-date results, Sewer expenses are 
projected to be $36.3 million, a favorable variance of $5.0 million, largely comprised of $1.2 million in salary and benefits 
budget savings stemming from vacancies and $3.3 million in operating budget savings. Staff requests to use a small portion 
of the projected budget savings to increase the funding for the City’s Sewer Lateral Program, which has proven to be quite 
popular this year, with applications up by about 40% as of November.  By mid-November, City staff had begun a waitlist for 
the program, having already received about 178 applications. City staff has had consistent requests for the program, even 
prior to the brochure and additional information on the updated Sewer Lateral Ordinance being made available to the 
public. In order to ensure that we have sufficient funding to support the implementation of the Sewer Lateral Ordinance 
updates, staff is requesting formal City Council approval to increase permitted funding for the Sewer Lateral Program by 
$225,000 this fiscal year.
Based on the year-end estimates for revenues and expenses, the Sewer Fund is expected to generate an increase in net 
position of $30.0 million, which will increase net position from $194.3 million to $224.3 million, and ensure that the Sewer 
Enterprise remains in compliance with its debt covenants with respect to the debt service coverage ratio, which measures 
the relationship between net surplus (revenues [excluding capital contributions from regional customers] less expenses 
[excluding interest]) and the debt service in a fiscal year. With a projected net surplus of $37.7 million (as defined above), 
and total debt service of $14.9 million in 2020-21, the projected debt service coverage ratio is 253% or 2.53X, which is 
7 of 21

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
above the minimum 1.2X required by the Fund’s debt covenants and the 1.55X level for single “A” credit-rating criteria.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The General Fund began fiscal year 2020-21 with $85.5 million in fund balance. Based on the projected year-end estimate 
of $126.8 million in General Fund revenues, and $133.6 million in total expenditures, the General Fund is anticipated to 
end the year with a net reduction of $6.8 million in fund balance. In the event these year-end financial projections come to 
fruition, the General Fund would have an ending fund balance of $78.8 million, which would be comprised of $31.9 million 
in operating reserve pursuant to the City's reserves policies, $4.8 million in housing set-aside, and $42.0 million in budget 
stabilization reserves. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This mid-year budget report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
8 of 21

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (insert year)
MID-YEAR BUDGET UPDATE AND SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $0.4 MILLION OF 
REIMBURSEMENT REVENUES IN THE GENERAL FUND FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT OPERATING BUDGET, 
TRANSFER $0.6 MILLION IN CIP PROJECT FUNDING FOR THE CENTRAL PARK GARAGE REPAIR PROJECT 
(#46F012) FROM THE DOWNTOWN PARKING AND SECURITY FUND TO THE PARKING IN-LIEU FUND, AND 
APPROVING INCREASING THE PERMITTED FUNDING OF THE SEWER LATERAL PROGRAM BY $225,000 USING 
EXISTING SEWER FUND BUDGET APPROPRIATIONS
WHEREAS, on January 19, 2021, the City Council received the fiscal year 2020-21 mid-year budget 
update, that provide an update on the City’s budget performance and projected year-end results for the General 
Fund and other notable operating funds; and 
WHEREAS, the amended 2020-21 budget projected $129.0 million in General Fund total revenues. Based 
on year-to-date results, General Fund total revenues are projected to be $125.9 million largely due to the impact 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on the City’s sales tax, transient occupancy tax, and recreation service revenues; and
WHEREAS,  the amended 2020-21 budget projected $136.9 million in total expenditures, which 
incorporated $4.3 million in budget reductions. Based on year-to-date results, General Fund expenditures are 
projected to be $133.6 million, primarily reflecting the impact of health order restrictions from the pandemic on 
the Parks and Recreation and Library Departments; and
WHEREAS, the Police Department has incurred $0.4 million in additional overtime costs not 
contemplated in the adopted 2020-21 budget to provide a uniformed police officer at the Apple Store located at 
the Hillsdale Shopping Center to provide a visible safety presence, theft deterrent, and enhance response time 
for other crimes which occur at the Hillsdale Shopping Center. Staff recommends a supplemental budget 
appropriation to account for the unanticipated overtime costs for this specific detail in the Police Department’s 
operating budget, which are reimbursed by Apple; and
WHEREAS, the unfavorable budget variance in the Downtown Parking and Security Fund revenues is 
representative of the impact of COVID-19 on parking meter revenue and downtown commerce. In order to 
position the fund for short-term viability, staff from the Public Works Department and City Manager’s Office are 
reviewing CIP project commitments to determine what can be uncommitted or deferred. One project that has 
been identified is the Central Park Garage Repair project (#46f012),for which Parking In-Lieu funds can supplant 
the Downtown Parking and Security Fund’s project funding commitment of $0.6 million with City Council 
approval of a budget transfer; and
WHEREAS, the Sewer Fund is projected to end fiscal year 2020-21 with $5.0 million in favorable budget 
variance. As such, in response to the ongoing interest in the City’s Sewer Lateral Program, staff recommend 
increasing the approved funding for the program by $225,000 using the projected budget savings.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that 
the following actions are approved: 
9 of 21

--- page 10 ---
1.
A supplemental budget appropriation of reimbursement revenues in the amount of $0.4 million to 
offset the additional cost of overtime in the Police Department’s operating budget.
2.
Transfer of $0.6 million in CIP project funding for the Central Park Garage Repair Project (#46f012) 
from the Downtown Parking and Security Fund to the Parking In-Lieu Fund.
3.
Increase funding in the Sewer Lateral Program in the amount of $225,000 using projected Sewer 
Fund budget appropriations.
10 of 21

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-4236
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
January 30, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Goal Setting Workshop
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the current Council Strategic Plan and identify new Council objectives for consideration for fiscal year 2021-22.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation process resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan 
that allows for multi-year resource planning. The January 30, 2021 meeting represents the first step in the process: a City 
Council workshop to determine strategic initiatives and objectives for consideration for the upcoming fiscal year. The 
meeting will include public comment period at the start of the meeting and will then be a facilitated discussion among the 
Council with the goal of revising and updating the Strategic Plan developed last fiscal year.
As an update to the annual goal setting process, staff conducted a mid-cycle review during a City Council study 
session on September 23, 2020. The review included status updates of priorities listed on the strategic plan for both 
fiscal years 2019-20 and 2020-21 and a discussion on the unforeseen initiatives added due to the COVID-19 public 
health emergency. As a result of the discussion, Council adjusted priority levels of some existing initiatives and 
added the new initiatives that came up over the course of the year.
The amendments made during the study session, as well as the recent updates on the implementation status of the 
Council objectives from fiscal year 2020-21, are included as Attachment 1. The highlighted items represent Council 
objectives that staff completed or plans to complete prior to the end of the fiscal that are therefore recommended 
to be removed from the priority list. 
Councilmembers provided their lists of potential new objectives for consideration to assist with the prioritization 
process (Attachment 2). The list also includes new objectives staff recommends the Council consider adding to the 
Strategic Plan. The Council will be asked to review this list and identify which items to include in the Strategic Plan 
and what priority to assign them. To help further the conversation, staff has color-coded the Council objectives to 
identify which ones are new initiatives, which are existing, and which are adjustments to existing ones. 
Additionally, staff has identified objectives that have been raised by more than one Councilmember. As part of the 
consideration process for new priorities to include in the Strategic Plan, staff is providing a list of major department 
initiatives identified for fiscal year 2021-22 (Attachment 3). This list highlights the significant new work plan items 
that each department plans to address next year that Council may not otherwise be aware.
The second step in the goal setting process, scheduled for March 1, 2021, will be a study session where staff will 
propose a work plan to address each of the objectives in the Strategic Plan, provide feedback on resource 
requirements, and suggest modifications to the proposed objectives. The final step in the process, which will occur 
11 of 21

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
at the March 15, 2021 City Council meeting, will be a consent calendar item where City Council will approve the 
Strategic Plan with the proposed objectives for the 2021-22 fiscal year. Staff plans to hold another mid-cycle review 
of the Strategic Plan in September 2021.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. The objectives identified by the Council will be taken into consideration 
as part of the development of the fiscal year 2021-22 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 21065, conducting a City Council planning meeting is not a 
project subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the City is not committing to any 
specific action on any priority at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – City Council Strategic Plan FY 2020-21
Att 2 – Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 
Att 3 – Major Department Initiatives for FY 2021-2022
Att 4 – Placeholder for Public Comments received by 4pm Friday, 1/29
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
12 of 21

--- page 13 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020-21
Status Update for January 2021
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2024
A
Complete construction of Smooth Streets Phase I contract (1.9 miles) and complete design of 
Phase II (2.3 miles)
On track for FY20-21 deliverables
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety and 
reliability of the street light system
A
Complete design and begin construction for high voltage conversion of 27th, 28th, and Woodland 
circuits. 
Project expanded to include 4 additional circuits.  Design in progress. 
Evaluate options and funding sources to dredge the Marina
A
Present findings and recommendations from ongoing Storm System Funding Analysis. Educate the 
community and City Council about current challenges the City is facing regarding management of 
the Marina Lagoon.
Finalizing review of draft  Funding Analysis Report.  Staff presented program overview to SIC 
in December.   Presenting to SIC in February for direction.  
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Finalize BCDC Permit, procure construction management team and award construction contract to 
initiate construction of flood improvement.
On track for FY20-21 deliverables
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Coordinate with the community on Phase 2 (GMP2) of the WWTP Expansion Project (installation of 
piles) and award Phase 3 (GMP3); begin construction of UFES; finalize potential funding through 
the State Revolving Fund. 
As part of Phase 2 (GMP), we completed 6 months of pile driving, and Phase 3 (GMP3) was 
awarded. Began construction of UFES.  WIFIA loans for the WWTP and Basin 2/3 (includes 
UFES) were closed. Awaiting follow-up from State on State Revolving Fund loan.
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Continue implementation of capital program to meet regulatory requirements. Evaluate results of 
the Trash Capture Plan Reassessment project.
CIP project for Trash Capture at Poplar/Golf Course is waiting for Regional Water Board 
approval of the project to qualify for trash capture credits.
Develop an anti-littering  trash and cigarette butt outreach campaign
A
Implement enhanced outreach and messaging strategy targeting business districts, continue 
implementation of the Team Up to Clean Up and Adopt-a-drain programs.
Working with consultant on logo design.  Adopt-a-drain ongoing, Team Up to Clean Up on 
hold due to Covid.
Evaluate the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030
B
Continue alternative fuel and EV vehicle feasibility research. Provide recommendations for "Green" 
vehicles to users for new or replacement vehicles. Present results to City Council at study session.
Reviewing current CNG Fleet replacement program, CNG plant maintenance requirements, 
and potential Electric Vehicle alternatives.
Analyze potential to produce potable drinking water from the Clean 
Water Program
B
Continue to study options for advanced wastewater treatment and reservoir/direct water 
augmentation with the SFPUC, SVCW/Redwood City, BAWSCA and CalWater. 
Entered into a Memorandum of Agreement for the Potable Reuse Exploratory Plan Phase 3 
Feasibility Study. 
Stewardship of 
Infrastructure
Reliability
Environmental 
Responsibility
Resilience
1
13 of 21

--- page 14 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020-21
Status Update for January 2021
Expedite traffic management improvements based on public input 
received from Neighborhood Traffic Forums, Neighborhood Traffic 
Management Program, and best practices and enhance 
transparency of outcomes and frequencies of Council status reports.
A
Police will continue to dedicate resources with a focus on enforcement, education and awareness. 
The  E. Poplar/ Humboldt Signal Modification project and the Hillsdale/Saratoga RTOL project will 
be completed. Staff will continue the redevelopment of the NTMP guidelines. 
Once vacant engineering position is filled, PW traffic will begin delivering on the projects 
mentioned.  Police Field Operations has reconfigured staffing to shift traffic resources from 
patrol, creating a dedicated traffic unit.  A new webpage to map collision and other traffic 
related data will go live in January.
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City at-grade 
crossings
A
Coordinate funding agreements and improvements with Caltrans, JPB/Caltrain, and CPUC for 4th & 
5th Avenue Grade Crossing Improvements (Quadrant Gates) to be funded by "Section 130" Rail-
Highway Grade Crossing Program.  Complete traffic study for potential crossing closures.
Funding agreements executed for 4th & 5th Avenue Grade Crossing Improvements, design 
begins in Jan. 2021
Minimize parking impacts throughout the City.
A
Complete implementation of new service delivery model for contracted parking enforcement 
services and integrate FTEs dedicated to abandoned vehicle abatement.  Monitor impact and 
effectiveness. Public Works and Police to partner on technology issues to ensure effective delivery 
of parking enforcement Citywide. Complete Downtown Parking Technology project. 
The new service delivery model has been implemented but enforcement activity has been 
significantly impacted by COVID. In 2021, staff will manage the transition from the existing 
parking vendor to a new vendor.  Police and Public Works continue to partner on the 
implementation of parking related technology.
Identify streets and intersection experiencing major congestion due 
to regional traffic and identify effective measures to mitigate the 
impact on traffic flow and the adjacent neighborhoods.
A
Police will continue to provide enforcement at traffic hot spots. The 19th Avenue Fashion Island 
Blvd Study and the Traffic Signal Master Plan will be completed. Staff will continue to work with 
the San Mateo Country Transportation Agency on the US101 / 92SR Area and Direct Connector 
Project. 
Police continue to provide enforcement at traffic hot spots and will be monitoring impact of 
the new crossings at 28th/31st Avenues, once opened.
Safe Streets neighborhood street closures
A
Provide limited street closures, allowing for resident and delivery only access, on selected streets in 
residential areas throughout the City to provide space for social distancing and outdoor recreation 
during COVID-19. 
Safe Streets remains in effect throughout the City. PW will continue to monitor the Safe 
Streets effort and will adapt accordingly.
Participate in the Age Friendly Cities Initiative
A
Complete community outreach process and submit formal application to World Health 
Organization for designation as an Age Friendly City. Identify resources needed for 
implementation. 
San Mateo designated an Age Friendly City in November 2020.  Two projects identified with 
task forces in place. 
Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete design enhancements of Marina and Hillsdale branches. Add new shelving and combine 
services desk to improve access and overall customer services.
This project is in progress. May not be completed until after close of the fiscal year.
Create COVID-19 children's programming
A
Host modified summer camps and distance learning programs to create children's programming 
during COVID-19.
Modified summer camps provided at 7 park locations.  Distance Learning (LEAP) being 
provided at King and Senior Center for 96 children and will continue until full  in-person 
learning occurs. 
Implement Online Permit Center
A
Launch the Citizen Self-Service Portal allowing for the submittal of planning and building permits 
online to allow for increased customer access to City Hall.
Online Permit Center was launched and has had operational success. The CSS Portal will be 
undergoing significant product and service upgrades in early January.
Neighborhoods
Community 
Services
Quality of Life
Quality of Life
2
14 of 21

--- page 15 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020-21
Status Update for January 2021
Enhance emergency response times during peak traffic conditions.
A
Leverage the new substation/rest quarters at 1812 S. Norfolk to strategically deploy public safety 
personnel in an effort to reduce emergency service response times.
Substation has been completed and is being utilized. Staff will collect data on frequency of 
use and impact on response times. Implementation of a traffic signal prioritization pilot for 
emergency vehicles is underway.
Consider adopting a firearm storage ordinance
A
Present an analysis of what the county and other cities in the area have adopted by the end of FY 
19/20.  FY 20/21 workplan deliverables dependent on Council direction from initial analysis.
The ordinance was adopted in September 2020.
Consider adopting an ordinance regulating vaping and e-cigarettes
A
Present an analysis of what the county and other cities in the area have adopted by the end of FY 
19/20.  FY 20/21 workplan deliverables dependent on Council direction from initial analysis.
The ordinance was adopted in October 2020.
Implement the Safe and Secure Neighborhoods Initiative
A
Sustain innovative safety and security practices including community engagement and safety 
partnerships.  Continue to evaluate technology options to enhance neighborhood safety and 
security.
Police  are continuing community safety partnerships including promoting the NEST camera 
registry, implementing a Small Unmanned Aircraft System Program; deploying ALPRs at fixed 
locations; and  evaluating dashboard/in-car cameras for patrol vehicles to leverage 
technology to enhance safety and solve crimes.
Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
A
Work with Council to define commercial areas to be addressed and parameters of proposed ban, 
complete business and stakeholder outreach, then bring proposed ordinance to Council for 
consideration.
No work to date on this item due to available staff resources.
Host a community conversation on policing in San Mateo.
A
Host a series of community Real Talk forums and City Council Study Sessions to enhance 
understanding of the Police Department's operational policies and budget allocation.
PD hosted 8 Real Talk San Mateo  sessions and participated in several community meetings 
and virtual public forums to engage in dialogue.  Activities planned for 2021 include 
additional Real Talk  sessions (almost monthly); Coffee with a Cop (quarterly); Virtual Ride 
Alongs (bi-monthly); and other activities to promote communication.  A new Community 
Police Academy, aimed at providing enhanced understanding of the Police Department, will 
be launched post pandemic.
Public Health 
and  Safety
Quality of Life
3
15 of 21

--- page 16 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020-21
Status Update for January 2021
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Continue to track wage theft regulations in other jurisdictions.
Staff continues to track regulations in other jurisdictions.
Explore adoption of San Mateo County's Disposable Food Service 
Ware regulations
A
Outreach to local business community on proposed regulations and provide feedback to Council 
on potential considerations. Track outreach and implementation efforts in other communities.
Ordinance to be adopted in February 2021.
Evaluate potential mandates regarding composting in multi-family 
dwellings
B
Continue outreach to multi-family properties. Track regulations in other communities related to 
composting in multi-family dwellings as well as SBWMA strategies.
All multi-family dwellings have been contacted regarding establishing composting programs 
and outreach efforts will be expanded over the next two years. South Bayside Waste 
Management Authority’s Organic to Energy pilot program is targeting the solid waste 
generated from multi-family dwellings. 
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions
A
Commence implementation of new measures from the 2020 CAP including multi-family reach 
codes, commercial energy efficiency benchmarking, and expansion of EV infrastructure.
New multifamily reach codes adopted and EV infrastructure expansion in progress.
Pursue development of additional housing including affordable and 
workforce housing
A
Complete entitlements for the 100% affordable housing project at the Downtown Opportunity 
sites.  Marketing strategy for Bay Meadows affordable housing.  Develop funding strategy for use 
of City housing funds.  Update ADU/JADU Ordinance.
Entitlements were obtained for Downtown Opportunity Sites. Bay Meadows “Montara” is 
now fully occupied. Council provided City housing funds direction in June 2020. 
Create a racial equity community art project
A
Develop a plan for the solicitation and implementation of a racial equty community art project.
Established proposed process with Civic Arts Committee at November meeting. First step of 
process is to identify 4 Advisory Members to participate with CAC for the project. 
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Complete selection of preferred playground design, complete construction drawings and have 
package ready for bid. 
Public review delayed. Plan to implement online review and comment as well as hosted 
workshops during first quarter 2021. 
Update the General Plan
A
Continue public outreach and meetings following the November 2020 election, develop draft 
preferred scenario, and establish draft General Plan Goals and Policies
Currently on track. Study session with Council scheduled for January 19, 2021.
Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans
A
Evaluate priority projects for each potential funding source and pursue options for additional 
funding.
Presented on Public Works Master Plans.  Plan to bring stormwater funding options to 
Council during spring 2021.
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-term train 
corridor improvements
B
Begin discussions with TA regarding potential funding and study of existing right-of-way and 
potential project alternatives.
In the early stages of requesting for funds in the CIP process to ultimately contract with a 
consultant to develop a grade separation plan. 
Evaluate our ability to do a standardized and routine statistically-
valid community survey that includes workforce and residents
B
Evaluate the results of the 2020 community survey and identify future survey needs.
Community survey results were presented to Council in May 2020. No further actions taken.
Review Development Impact Fees
A
Complete fee study analysis, evaluate recommendations and implement fee changes.
Revised user fees scheduled for City Council on February 16th. Continued work with CDD, 
Public Works, and Parks & Recreation to update the various other nexus studies to bring 
revised development impact fees to Council in the first half of 2021.
Social 
Leadership
Strategic 
Planning
Framing the 
Future
Framing the 
Future
4
16 of 21

--- page 17 ---
Fiscal Year 2020-21 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
Council Objectives
Priority Proposed Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2020-21
Status Update for January 2021
Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Complete entitlements for the public parking garage at the Downtown Opportunity sites.
Project Entitlements approved. Construction design is underway. Project to break ground in 
late 2021.
Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other 
commercial districts
A
Provide Outdoor Dining options for restaurants in all commercial areas of the City. 
Focus of effort has been on providing outdoor dining parklets in all commercial areas of the 
City. Long-term parklet program guidelines are in the process of being developed.
Evaluate a street closure in the Downtown on B Street 
A
Pilot a street closure on B Street between Baldwin and 3rd Avenue as part of the Outdoor Dining 
program during COVID-19.
Downtown Street Closures currently being piloted to accommodate Outdoor Dining. 
Completed CEQA analysis to allow for  extension of pilot program through Fall 2021 as well 
as a future permanent closure.
Evaluate Downtown parking and transit incentive programs for 
employees 
B
Identify opportunities to mitigate parking demand and increase supply in the Downtown including, 
but not limited to, transit incentives, public-private partnerships to expand supply, and valet 
parking.
Item currently on hold due to increased teleworking as a result of COVID-19.
Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies 
B
Evaluate regulations adopted by other cities, outreach to stakeholders, and propose policy options 
for Council consideration.
CDD is analyzing potential zoning changes to allowed ground floor tenants. Will present 
options to City Council in February.
Explore the establishment of Property-Based Improvement Districts 
(PBIDs)
B
Outreach to major property owners in the Downtown to gauge interest and potential assessment 
options.
Item currently on hold due to economic impact of COVID-19 on local businesses and 
commercial property owners.
Eliminate the City’s unfunded pension and Other Public Employee 
Benefits (OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
Continue the City's practice of pre-paying the Unfunded Accrued Liability payment.
Additonal Discretionary Payments (ADPs) to CalPERS were suspended due to the financial 
impact of COVID-19. We will continue to monitor the City's financial condition to determine 
when ADPs can resume without negatively impacting the City's service level.
Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
Depending upon the results of the March 2020 polling and subsequent November 2020 election, 
will evaluate prospective revenue enhancement options. Develop a mechanism to identify 
potential private funding sources/public-private partnerships as part of capital planning process.
TOT measure passed in November 2020, effective 1/1/2021. Will continue to consider other 
revenue enhancement options as the economy recovers.
Economic 
Vitality
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
Financial 
Sustainability
5
17 of 21

--- page 18 ---
City Council Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 
 
Legend 
 
Brand new priority 
 
Existing priority 
 
Modified existing priority 
* 
A priority mentioned by more than one Council 
Member or Staff  
 
Mayor Rodriguez 
The Covid-19 pandemic continues to significantly impact the City of San Mateo. These impacts are draining 
our financial resources and staff time. For 2021, I strongly feel that city staff should remain focused mostly 
on the recovery and the important priorities that are carried over from 2020 and earlier. These priorities, in 
no particular order, include:  
* 1. General Plan Update: Successfully completing our General Plan Update with broad community 
input.  
* 2. Traffic Mitigation: Continuing local traffic mitigation efforts to ease traffic congestion—especially as 
more cars return to our city streets this year.  
* 3. Pedestrian & Bicycle Safety: Build upon the initiatives that increase transparency of Bike/Ped 
accidents began in 2020 and deploy resources to the most dangerous hotspots. Prioritize the long-
term goals outlined in both our Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans.  
* 4. Housing Affordability: Continuing efforts to encourage and incentivize the construction of more 
affordable housing units.   
* 5. Small Business Recovery: Consider creating a Small Business Recovery Committee with 
the sole purpose of ensuring the City is doing everything that is feasible to 
support our vulnerable small businesses to ensure their survival.  
* 6. Pedestrian-only Zone in Downtown: Begin to evaluate options to make the downtown pedestrian-
only zone permanent or semi-permanent after the Covid-19 pandemic has subsided.   
* 7. Pension Liability Management: Continuing to address our unfunded pension liability and prioritize 
new expense options that do not expand our liability. 
 
Deputy Mayor Bonilla 
 
1. Develop a plan for Green Fleet by 2030 
 
2. Consider adopting wage theft protections (priority level change from C to A) 
 
3. Implement a universal basic income program 
 
Council Member Lee 
* 
1. Review municipal code provisions that impact the development review process and identify areas 
for streamlining. 
 
2. Increase public visibility and awareness of community benefits for developments. E.g.  add 
standard section outlining community benefits on each project page for the "What's Happening in 
Development" webpage.   
 
3. Apply an anti-racist and equity lens to our recruitment and vetting process for staff and appointed 
leadership positions. E.g. Equity Taskforce make recommendations for data collection and updates 
to applications for boards, commissions, council to track community representation, community 
engagement and language skills. (REF: https://bayareaequityatlas.org/Electeds2020)  
 
4. Review and elevate communication strategy for city-wide and department channels, as well as 
efforts to reach "hard to reach" community members. E.g. schedule standing (bi)annual study 
session.  
18 of 21

--- page 19 ---
5. Assess efficacy of strengthening the existing red-tag ordinance to increase penalties for repeat 
offenders and recover costs for staff time. 
* 
6. Continue robust community engagement and public education for the General Plan Process.  
* 
7. Continue exploring revenue opportunities. E.g. signs and billboards. 
* 
8. Continue to create safer and more vibrant downtown experience through permanent downtown 
street closure. E.g. S. B St between 2nd & 3rd.  
* 
9. Continue supporting businesses through the pandemic by working locally and regionally to build 
economic sustainability and recovery.   
* 10. Continue to assess the viability of funding options for capital improvements to our aged 
recreational facilities that would include enhanced health and safety upgrades. E.g. Measure T, 
Implementing Facilities Master Plan.   
 
11. Continue to pursue funding and implement the maintenance plan for the Lagoon.  
 
Council Member Papan 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
Reliability: 
* 1. Grade Separations: Develop long-term funding plan  
* 2. Bike and Ped Master Plan: Develop long-term funding plan for safer streets and GHG reductions  
 
3.  Failed Streets -Reconstruct by 2024  
Environmental: 
 
1. Climate Application Plan: Continued implementation of CAP to reduce GHG emissions 
 
2. Anti-littering/dumping: Develop an outreach campaign 
QUALITY OF LIFE 
Neighborhoods:  
 
1. Implement Neighborhood Traffic Impact Plans - Most “Bang for the Buck”   
* 2. Neighborhood protection from regional traffic by implementing traffic mitigation measures    
 
3. Train Horns Quiet Zone work to reduce train horn noise at at-grade crossings  
Community Services: 
 
1.  COVID Relief Outreach about available resources for individuals  
 
2.  Childcare Support: Continued distribution of a portion of additional COVID funding   
 
3. Seniors Library Outreach to Senior Living Facilities using the “Mateo” van   
 
Public Health & Safety: 
* 1. Police & Mental Health Expand on coordinating police services with mental health & social 
services.  Expand mental health training.   
FRAMING THE FUTURE 
Social Leadership: 
 
1. Housing Incentivize construction of affordable and workforce housing, the conversion of older office 
space to housing & the inclusion of some ownership product  
* 2. Diversity & Equity-Continued workforce and community forums and training    
Strategic Planning:  
* 1. General Plan Update: Develop a door-to-door outreach plan   
* 2. Public Works/Park & Recreation: Prioritize projects & develop funding strategies    
 
3. Community Surveys: Implement routine surveys after providing a service   
ECONOMIC VITALITY 
Commercial/Retail Districts: 
19 of 21

--- page 20 ---
* 1. Street Closure- Develop a plan for permanent closures   
* 2. Small Business: Develop COVID Recovery Plan & Outreach regarding available resources  
 
3. PBID: Continue working on Property Owner Improvement District. Organize larger property owners 
with the means to participate in hardscape improvements and maintenance.   
Financial Sustainability: 
* 1. Pension Obligations: Continue evaluating ways of paying down unfunded obligations  
* 2. Revenue Generation Billboards. Develop a strategy for private sector funding contributions for 
specific capital improvements. Continue active pursuit of grant money. Develop long-term strategy for 
a hotel on a portion of Poplar Creek  
 
 
Staff Proposed Objectives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 
 
Staff 
* 
1. Complete Municipal Codes amendments for better clarity and correction of errors (CDD) 
 
2. Enhance Police Accountability, Transparency, and Efficiency (Police) 
a. Integrate mental health clinician services into operations when possible to provide optimal 
response to individuals experiencing behavioral health crises 
b. Enhance training related to de-escalation, sanctity of life, crisis response and intervention, 
mindfulness, behavioral health, and incorporate into all aspects of police performance where 
applicable   
c. Integrate technology to improve training, accountability, transparency and investigations   
d. Engage in outreach to continue industry-leading community engagement and transparency   
e. Implement stop data collection requirements of AB953, the Racial and Identity Profiling Act 
(RIPA) and related policies, procedures and training to ensure complete and comprehensive 
reporting as required by State law.   
 
 
20 of 21

--- page 21 ---
Major Department Initiatives for Fiscal Year 2021-2022 
The following initiatives will be pursued by individual departments and do not require Council action. 
These initiatives have been identified as ones that will take a significant amount of staff resources to 
implement but are not recommended for inclusion in the City Council Strategic Plan.  
 
City Manager’s Office: 
• 
Establishment of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee 
• 
Evaluate disposition opportunities for Downtown surface parking lots identified as surplus 
property 
• 
Implement short term rental regulations 
• 
Evaluate best practices for outreach to hard to reach communities 
Information Technology:  
• 
Internal cyber security campaign/program 
Human Resources:  
• 
Providing safety guidance regarding COVID-19 in the workplace 
• 
Contract negotiations with several bargaining units 
• 
Assistance with transitioning the City workforce back to post-COVID activities 
Finance:  
• 
Fiscal Sustainability Plan 
• 
Eden Replacement Project 
Community Development Department:  
• 
Housing Element preparation - due January 2023 
• 
Continued staff development with public customer interactions and communication 
• 
Update Community Development Department webpages 
Library: 
• 
Create physical adaptations to library facilities to safely provide service in the post-COVID-19 
world  
• 
Pilot a materials delivery program in the second half of this FY to assist homebound patrons 
during the pandemic 
Public Works: 
• 
Advance the US 101 Southbound Ramps at the Peninsula Interchange 
• 
Update Solid Waste Rates and Structure 
21 of 21