--- page 1 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Rev 7/21 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND FLOCK GROUP INC. 
FOR CONTRACT FLOCK SAFETY PLATFORM PRODUCTS  
(Original Amount $501,350; New Amount Not to Exceed $640,300) 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Flock Group, Inc.(“CONTRACTOR”), entered into an Agreement for Flock Safety Platform products and 
services (“Agreement”) on August 25, 2023; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and CONTRACTOR wish to amend the Agreement effective March 4, 2024 to 
purchase fifteen (15) additional automated license plate reader devices for a three-year term; and 
update the City of San Mateo point of contact for the agreement. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Exhibit C is added to the Agreement.  
 
2. 
The “Customer Notice Address” of the Agreement is amended to read: 
ADDRESS:   
San Mateo Police Department 
 
 
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo CA 94403 
ATTN:  
Lieutenant Paul Pak 
EMAIL:  
pak@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
 
 
3. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 


--- page 2 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Rev 7/21 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and FLOCK GROUP INC. have executed this Agreement the 
day and year as indicated below. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Ed Barberini 
Chief of Police  
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Mark Smith 
Its Authorized Agent and General 
Counsel  
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bahar Abdollahi 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 


--- page 3 ---
ORDER FORM  
This order form (“Order Form”) hereby incorporates and includes the terms of the previously executed agreement (the “Terms”) which describe and set 
forth the general legal terms governing the relationship (collectively, the "Agreement" ). The Terms contain, among other things, warranty disclaimers, 
liability limitations and use limitations. 
This additional services Agreement will be effective when this Order Form is executed by both Parties (the “Effective Date”) 
Customer: 
CA - San Mateo PD 
Initial Term: 
36 Months 
Legal Entity Name: 
CA - San Mateo PD 
Renewal Term: 
24 Months 
Accounts Payable Email: 
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org 
Payment Terms: 
Net 30 
Address: 
200 Franklin Parkway San Mateo, 
California 94403 
Billing Frequency: 
50% of Annual Contract + 100% of Implementation Invoiced at 
Signing. 25% of Annual Contract Invoiced at First Camera 
Validation. 25% of Annual Contract Invoiced at Last Camera 
Validation. Annual  
payments  invoiced  for  remainder  of 
Retention Period: 
subscription term. 
30 Days 
Hardware and Software Products 
Annual recurring amounts over subscription term 
Flock Safety LPR Products  
Flock Safety Falcon ®  
Included  
13  
Included  
Flock Safety Video Products  
Flock Safety Condor ™ PTZ w/ LTE Service  
Included  
2  
Included 
FlockOS  ™ 
Included  
 1 
Included  
Item 
Cost 
Quantity 
Total 
Flock Safety Platform 
$45,000.00 
Flock Safety Flock OS 
Exhibit C


--- page 4 ---
 
Professional Services and One Time Purchases   
   
   
   
   
  
 
Professional Services - Standard Implementation Fee   
$650.00   
1   
$650.00   
Professional Services - Existing Infrastructure 
Implementation Fee   
  
 
$150.00   
12   
$1,800.00   
Condor 
Professional 
Services 
- 
Standard 
Implementation Fee   
  
 
$750.00   
2   
$1,500.00   
   
  
 
   
Subtotal Year 1:   
$48,950.00   
   
  
 
   
Annual Recurring Subtotal:   
$45,000.00   
   
  
 
   
Estimated Tax:   
$0.00   
 
 
  
 
Contract Total:   
$138,950.00   
   
   
   
Taxes shown above are provided as an estimate. Actual taxes are the responsibility of the Customer. This Agreement will automatically renew for successive 
renewal terms of the greater of one year or the length set forth on the Order Form (each, a “Renewal Term”) unless either Party gives the other Party notice of 
non-renewal at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term.    
   
Special Terms:   
   
• Flock allows BSCC, the Federal awarding agency, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representative, access to any 
books, documents, papers and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to the program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts 
and transcriptions, for all contracts greater than $100,000. Flock agrees to be in compliance with Equal Employment Opportunity per Executive Order 11246 
as amended by Executive Order 11375 and supplemented at 41 CFR 60.   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
Item  
  
Cost  
  
Quantity   
    
Total  
  
One Time Fees   
    
  
    
    
Flock Safety   Professional Services   
  
  
    
  


--- page 5 ---
Billing Schedule   
   
Billing Schedule   
Amount (USD)   
Estimated Invoice Date   
Year 1 & 2   
   
   
At Contract Signing   
$48,950.00   
50% of Year 1 Annual + 50% of Year 2 Annual + One Time 
Implementation Fees at Contract Signing    
At First Device Installed   
$22,500.00   
25% of Year 1 Annual + 25% of Year 2 on 04/1/2024   
At Last Device Installed   
$22,500.00   
25% of Year 1 Annual + 25% of Year 2 on 06/1/2024   
Year 3   
$45,000.00   
Annual Recurring on 04/1/2025   
Contract Total   
$138,950.00   
   
Invoice dates are estimated and subject to change based on installation timeline.   
     
 


--- page 6 ---
Product and Services Descrip2on   
   
Flock Safety Platform Items   
Product Description   
Terms   
Flock Safety Falcon ®   
An infrastructure-free license plate reader camera that utilizes Vehicle 
Fingerprint® technology to capture vehicular attributes.   
The Term shall commence upon first installation and validation of Flock 
Hardware.   
Flock Safety Condor™   
Flock’s pan, tilt, zoom (PTZ) or fixed cameras which capture video 
footage with the option to stream live video, capture and view video 
recordings, and upload videos.   
The Term shall commence upon first installation and validation of Flock 
Hardware.   
   
One-Time Fees   
Service Description   
Installation on existing 
infrastructure   
One-time Professional Services engagement. Includes site & safety assessment, camera setup & testing, and shipping & handling in accordance with 
the Flock Safety Advanced Implementation Service Brief.   
Professional Services - Standard 
Implementation Fee   
One-time Professional Services engagement. Includes site and safety assessment, camera setup and testing, and shipping and handling in accordance 
with the Flock Safety Standard Implementation Service Brief.   
Professional Services -   
Advanced Implementation Fee   
One-time Professional Services engagement. Includes site & safety assessment, camera setup & testing, and shipping & handling in accordance with 
the Flock Safety Advanced Implementation Service Brief.   
   
  
  
FlockOS Features & Descrip2on     
FlockOS Features   
Description   
Community Cameras (Full Access)   
Access to all privately owned Flock devices within your jurisdiction that have been shared with you.   
Unlimited Users   
Unlimited users for FlockOS   
State Network (LP Lookup Only)   
Allows agencies to look up license plates on all cameras opted in to the statewide Flock network.   
Nationwide Network (LP Lookup Only)   
Allows agencies to look up license plates on all cameras opted in to the nationwide Flock network.   
Direct Share - Surrounding Jurisdiction (Full Access)   
Access to all Flock devices owned by law enforcement that have been directly shared with you. Have 
ability to search by vehicle fingerprint, receive hot list alerts, and view devices on the map.   
Time & Location Based Search   
Search full, partial, and temporary plates by time at particular device locations   
License Plate Lookup   
Look up specific license plate location history captured on Flock devices   
Vehicle Fingerprint Search   
Search footage using Vehicle Fingerprint™ technology. Access vehicle type, make, color, license plate state, 
missing / covered plates, and other unique features like bumper stickers, decals, and roof racks.   
Flock Insights/Analytics page   
Reporting tool to help administrators manage their LPR program with device performance data, user and 
network audits, plate read reports, hot list alert reports, event logs, and outcome reports.   
ESRI Based Map Interface   
Flock Safety’s maps are powered by ESRI, which offers the ability for 3D visualization, viewing of floor 
plans, and layering of external GIS data, such as City infrastructure (i.e., public facilities, transit systems, 
utilities), Boundary mapping (i.e., precincts, county lines, beat maps), and Interior floor plans (i.e., 
hospitals, corporate campuses, universities)   
Real-Time NCIC Alerts on Flock ALPR Cameras   
Alert sent when a vehicle entered into the NCIC crime database passes by a Flock camera   
Unlimited Custom Hot Lists   
Ability to add a suspect’s license plate to a custom list and get alerted when it passes by a Flock camera   
      
 
 


--- page 7 ---
 
By executing this Order Form, Customer represents and warrants that it has read and agrees to all of the terms and conditions 
contained in the previously executed agreement.  
The Parties have executed this Agreement as of the dates set forth below.  
 
FLOCK GROUP, INC. 
 
Customer: CA - San Mateo PD 
 
By: 
\FSSignature2\ 
 
By: 
\FSSignature1\ 
Name: 
\FSFullname2\ 
 
Name: 
\FSFullname1\ 
Title: 
\FSTitle2\ 
 
Title: 
\FSTitle1\ 
Date: 
\FSDateSigned2\ 
 
Date: 
\FSDateSigned1\ 
 
 
 
PO 
Number: 
 
      
  
 
