Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Humboldt County CA SO
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Aug 08 2026

Overview

Humboldt County CA SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Humboldt County CA SO utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Humboldt County CA SO utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

11

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

136,127

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

126

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

358

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Humboldt County CA SO data.

Alameda County CA SO
Amador County CA Sheriff's Office
Blue Lake Rancheria Tribal PD
California Highway Patrol
Del Norte County CA SO
Dublin CA PD (ACSO)
El Dorado County CA SO
Marin County CA DA
Mendocino County SO-CA
Modoc County CA SO
Napa County CA SO
Nevada County CA SO
San Joaquin County CA SO
San Luis Obispo County (CA) Sheriff
Solano County CA SO
Sonoma County CA SO
Sutter County CA SO
Tehama County CA SO
Trinity County SO CA
Tulare County CA SO
Yolo County CA SO
Yuba County Sheriffs Office
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Humboldt County CA SO and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Humboldt County Sheriff's Office full ALPR policy can be viewed at the URL below:

https://humboldtgov.org/DocumentCenter/View/144358/HCSO-Policy-437

Provided by Flock Safety