source: packet.pdf
sha256: ecf3ad5f3d956ef95edf22e15b82dfccb6ae62b14cf4c45e306771375f29bd18
pages: 8
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
June 10, 2020
7:00 PM
Remote Meeting
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Rafael Reyes, Chair
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Jackie Nuñez
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 10, 2020 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID:
812 2929 2985
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Election of Commission Chair and Vice Chair
The Commission will elect the new Chair and Vice Chair of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.
CONSENT CALENDAR
2.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of May 13, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be
referred to staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Solid Waste Diversion Efforts Update
Receive an update regarding the City of San Mateo and South Bayside Waste Management Authority waste
diversion efforts and programs.
1 of 8

--- page 2 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. To
speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 8

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CEREMONIAL 
File ID: 20-3138
SUBJECT:
Election of Chair and Vice Chair
3 of 8

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 20-3140
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 10, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission – Minutes Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of May 13, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the May 13, 2020 meeting
4 of 8

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
May 13, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Rafael Reyes, Chair  
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Jackie Nuñez 
MINUTES 
  
CALL TO ORDER 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Reyes and Commissioners Rowinski, Robbins and Nuñez 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
Commissioner Robbins made a motion to approve the minutes of March 11, 2020, seconded by Commissioner 
Nuñez.  The motion carried by the following vote: 
 
Yes:       3 –    Chair Reyes, Commissioners Robbins and Nuñez 
Abstain: 1 -    Vice-Chair Rowinski 
 
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to 
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be 
referred to staff for further review. 
No public comment. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
  
2. 2015 Climate Action Plan - Annual Progress Report 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, presented the report and asked the Commissioners receive an update on 
the implementation to date of the approved measures in the 2015 Climate Action Plan. 
 
Public Comment: 
Adam Loraine, Carol Steinfeld and Becky Schaat spoke to the item. 
 
No motion needed on this item. 
 
 
5 of 8

--- page 6 ---
3. Building Electrification Reach Codes for Multifamily Construction 
 
Before the presentation, Chair Reyes recused himself as he is an associate with Peninsula Clean Energy. 
 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, presented the report and asked the Commissioners receive an update on 
the Mid-Rise Multifamily Residential Cost-Effectiveness study and provide feedback on potential reach codes 
to encourage building electrification in new low-rise and mid-rise multifamily residential construction. 
 
Public Comment. 
Adam Loraine and Alan Mattlage spoke to the item. 
 
Recommendations from Commissioners included:  The Commissioners supported the concept for the 
proposed reach codes with the two-pronged approach to encourage building electrification. The Commission 
requested staff to do stakeholder outreach to the development community in advance of bringing the reach 
codes forward for adoption.  If staff receives negative feedback from stakeholders, the Commission would like 
item brought back to them before moving to City Council; . 
 
No motion needed for this update. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Commissioner Nuñez had a request to learn more about Safe Streets Pilot Program and lessons learned.  
Patrice Olds, City Clerk, stated that remote interviews for the vacant Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission position will start in July. 
Vice Chair Rowinski inquired about the timeframe for a presentation from the South Bay Waste Management 
Authority.  Assistant City Manager, Kleinbaum, will check with the Public Works Director on possible date of 
June or July. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:55 PM 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding 
each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be 
available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to 
participate in this meeting may contact the Public Works Department, at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the 
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 of 8

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-3098
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Roxanne Murray
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 10, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste Diversion Efforts Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update regarding the City of San Mateo and South Bayside Waste Management Authority waste diversion 
efforts and programs.
BACKGROUND:
This report provides an update on the City’s waste diversion program and challenges.  City staff and South Bayside Waste 
Management Authority’s (SBWMA), will present a summary of SBWMA’s programs, new State mandates, global 
commodity markets, and future challenges. 
Compliance with Solid Waste Diversion Regulations
The City’s 2020 Climate Action Plan (CAP) is a comprehensive strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Waste 
diversion from landfills is one component of the CAP.  CalRecycle, the State’s solid waste administrative and oversight 
agency, measures solid waste diversion and compliance by the amount of waste generated per day by each resident and 
employee. CalRecycle has determined, for the City of San Mateo, residents need to generate no more than 5.8 pounds, 
and employees 13.3 pounds of waste per day to be in compliance. As of 2018, the average City of San Mateo resident 
generates 4.7 pounds and the average employee generates 8.5 pounds of waste per day, which means the City has met 
the CalRecycle requirements. The 2019 data will be approved by CalRecycle and available in October for review by City 
staff.
Organics Diversion Program
Ninety-three percent of the City’s single-family residential customers participate in the residential organic diversion 
program, which is currently offered at no additional charge. Organic service is available to commercial and multi-family 
dwelling (MFD) customers as an optional service, at a rate of 75% of garbage collection service. An MFD is defined as a 
residential building with five or more units. Commercial and multi-family dwellings generally do not subscribe to the 
organic program due to the additional associated cost. 
The City of San Mateo has 819 MFDs and only 144 of these have an organic collection program. There are many challenges 
in establishing organic collection service in MFDs including absentee landlord, space constraints in older buildings, short 
term residents, residents with no vested interest, and the additional cost of service. 
Staff continues to promote the MFD organic diversion program, including providing outreach and education directly to 
residents, and reaching out to landlords about starting an organic program.  Additionally, staff will continue to work with 
property management groups representing multiple MFDs to provide outreach in multiple languages, kitchen pails for 
7 of 8

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
each individual unit, information regarding best container placement for ease of use, and a restructured rate schedule 
encouraging all waste diversion options.
The City, the SBWMA, and their partners will continue efforts to divert waste from landfills, thereby reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions; meet all compliance requirements deadlines; and provide progress updates and continued engagement 
with the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.  SBWMA will give a presentation at the Commission meeting 
detailing its programs, upcoming legislative actions, and the challenges directly related to waste diversion efforts.
New Development Requirements
New development project applicants are required to submit plans related to solid waste services. Public Works staff review 
plans for maximum waste diversion opportunities. All developments must note, to scale, the solid waste storage and 
service locations detailing the number and size of each organic, recycling, and garbage collection containers. Emphasis is 
placed on maximizing collection containers with the goal of reducing service days, minimizing truck time on the road, 
container placement to enhance ease of use for building occupants, and safe accessibility for the service provider, 
reducing traffic concerns associated with service. Compliance for all waste diversion and service conditions must be met 
before the plans are approved.
Upcoming Solid Waste Rate Analysis
The City recently contracted with HF&H Consultants (HF&H) to analyze the City’s current solid waste rates and structure 
and provide options to restructure the rates, assuring maximum waste diversion including organic diversion opportunities 
going forward.  HF&H will be evaluating all solid waste rate options to maximize waste diversion and cover the cost of the 
program equitably.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this program update. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This solid waste diversion update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Roxanne Murray, Solid Waste and Recycle Program Coordinator 
rmurray@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7346
8 of 8