Dane County covers Flock Safety cameras amid privacy concerns | Wisconsin News | wqow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter YouTube TikTok Instagram Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Home Search Eye on Eau Claire News Business and Economy Chippewa Valley Crime and Courts Wake Up Wisconsin Digging Deeper International National Politics Wisconsin You Ask, We Answer Entertainment June Dairy Month Health Watch Weather Interactive Radar Alerts Closings and Delays Submit Closings Weather Cameras Traffic Cameras Weather & Climate News Pet Walking Forecast Sports Prep Sports College Sports Pro Sports Sports WIAA Sports Live Community Deals Photo Submissions Positively Chippewa Valley Contests Tools For Schools Community Calendar Jefferson Awards Celebrate Local Multiplying Good Golf Card Marketing Seminar Video On Demand Recipes Cars TV Apps YouTube The American Athlete Watch TV Listings WQOW 18 News Livestream 18.1 ABC Network 18.4 Court TV 18.5 Justice Network Discover Wisconsin Contact Sign up for Email Alerts Our Apps Meet the WQOW 18 News Team Advertise with WQOW Advertiser Services Find WQOW 18 News on Social Media Careers at WQOW 18 News Toggle navigation Menu Site search Search 70° Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Facebook Twitter YouTube TikTok Instagram News Eye on Eau Claire Weather Sports Community Video Watch Deals Contact Contests 18 News Download Our Apps 18 Storm Track Weather Submit a News Tip Dane County covers Flock Safety cameras amid privacy concerns Lauryn Abozeid Lauryn Abozeid Author email Jun 18, 2026 Jun 18, 2026 Updated Jun 18, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email One of the 8 Flock cameras installed on UW-Madison's campus. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration -:- Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - -:- 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Advertisement Dane County Sheriff's Office covers Flock Cameras MADISON (WKOW) — Flock Safety's cameras in Dane County are now covered after the sheriff's office contract with the company expired at the end of May. The sheriff's office took the extra step to ensure no additional data was collected while the cameras remained in place. Flock is planning to take down the cameras June 24. Dane County Sheriff Kalvin Barrett says concerns about privacy and reports out of nearby Verona prompted the decision to cover the cameras after the contract expired. "Flock might have been collecting data after the conclusion of their contract, but personally or professionally, we did not have any information that led to that," Barrett said. "We knew that that was out there, and we wanted to make sure that no additional data was being collected." While the contract with Flock has ended, Barrett says the technology itself remains important for public safety, especially in rural parts of Dane County. "We have about 1,000 square miles of land that we have to cover with a minimal amount of deputies, and these cameras, or this technology plays an important role in making sure we can cover large parts of the community," Barrett said. Barrett says automatic license plate reader technology has been part of what he calls a "recipe of success," helping contribute to reductions in several crime categories. The technology "has led to three year lows in some of our major categories of crime over the past three years," Barrett said. The sheriff's office is now looking at other options. Barrett says the office needs this technology but wants to be the only agency with access to it. Flock Safety addressed the privacy concerns in a statement, saying "Dane County’s cameras were deactivated earlier this month and are no longer capturing data. When a contract ends or is cancelled, Flock works with the agency to coordinate deactivation and removal of the equipment." Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Lauryn Abozeid Author email Follow Lauryn Abozeid Around the Web This Bison Bottle Is the Ideal Choice for Every Collector imgainting Protein Isn't Enough - Here's What Really Builds Muscle After 60 ApexLabs Ready Senior Women Seek Older Men Here Instantalks Senior Discounts In San Diego: Restaurants & More Comparisons.org Seniors Born 1939-1969 Receive 11 Benefits This Month If They Ask Super Saving Online Surgeons: This Simple Trick Will End Knee Pain & Arthritis Quickly (Try It) Health Weekly Cardiologists: 1/2 Cup Before Bed Burns Belly Fat Like Crazy! Try This Recipe! Health Weekly Top Videos More From News 18 News 'It's finally over:' Brittany Zimmermann's mom reflects on the death of her daughter's killer May 23, 2025 Wisconsin News Watch: Law enforcement thank community for their support after the deaths of 2 officers Updated Apr 10, 2023 Coronavirus Dunn County sees highest COVID case rate of the year Updated Aug 24, 2022 News DNR says planting native plants helps ecosystem Mar 24, 2025 News Inflation is a double whammy for food pantries as costs, demand rise Updated Apr 1, 2022 News 'Anything is possible': Madison woman with cerebral palsy sets out to hike entire Ice Age Trail Updated Jun 12, 2023 Recommended for you Subscribe Now! Facebook Twitter YouTube TikTok Instagram Sections News Weather Sports Video Watch Community Contact Services Search Careers Closed Captioning FCC Applications FCC Public File EEO Report Advertiser Services × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Allen Media Broadcasting , 5545 Hwy 93 Eau Claire, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .