--- page 1 ---
18 NEWS
Download Our Apps
18 Storm Track Weather
Submit a News Tip
https://www.wkow.com/news/dane-county-covers-flock-safety-cameras-amid-privacy-
concerns/article_7335eb4c-dfc2-4364-8bd4-cd0f94212fcc.html
Dane County covers Flock Safety cameras amid privacy
concerns
Lauryn Abozeid
Jun 18, 2026
One of the 8 Flock cameras installed on UW-Madison's campus.

--- page 2 ---
Dane County Sheriff's Office covers Flock Cameras
MADISON (WKOW) — Flock Safety's cameras in Dane County are now covered after
the sheriff's office contract with the company expired at the end of May.
The sheriff's office took the extra step to ensure no additional data was collected while
the cameras remained in place. Flock is planning to take down the cameras June 24.
Dane County Sheriff Kalvin Barrett says concerns about privacy and reports out of
nearby Verona prompted the decision to cover the cameras after the contract expired.
"Flock might have been collecting data after the conclusion of their contract, but
personally or professionally, we did not have any information that led to that," Barrett
said. "We knew that that was out there, and we wanted to make sure that no additional
data was being collected."
While the contract with Flock has ended, Barrett says the technology itself remains
important for public safety, especially in rural parts of Dane County.

--- page 3 ---
Lauryn Abozeid
TOP VIDEOS
"We have about 1,000 square miles of land that we have to cover with a minimal
amount of deputies, and these cameras, or this technology plays an important role in
making sure we can cover large parts of the community," Barrett said.
Barrett says automatic license plate reader technology has been part of what he calls a
"recipe of success," helping contribute to reductions in several crime categories. The
technology "has led to three year lows in some of our major categories of crime over
the past three years," Barrett said.
The sheriff's office is now looking at other options.
Barrett says the office needs this technology but wants to be the only agency with
access to it.
Flock Safety addressed the privacy concerns in a statement, saying
"Dane County’s cameras were deactivated earlier this month and are no longer
capturing data. When a contract ends or is cancelled, Flock works with the agency to
coordinate deactivation and removal of the equipment."