Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Santa Barbara PD CA
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Aug 23 2026

Overview

Santa Barbara PD CA uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Santa Barbara PD CA utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Santa Barbara PD CA utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

12

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

300,434

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

117

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

591

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Santa Barbara PD CA data.

Santa Barbara PD CA is not sharing data with any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Santa Barbara PD CA and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

Full ALPR Policy:

https://santabarbaraca.gov/sites/default/files/2024-02/Automated_License_Plate_Readers__ALPRs_.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety