New Vigilant Solutions Channel Program Offers Incentives Including Discounts and Share of Recurring Revenue for Distribution Partners | Officer The Leader in Products, Technology and Innovation Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical Sections Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical On the Street Training & Careers Investigations Technology Special OFFICER Magazine Podcasts OFFICER Virtual Academy OFFICER Labs Original Content Station Design Webinars Featured Videos Honoring the Fallen Contact About Us Contact Us By Contributor Advertise Subscribe to Magazine Subscribe to Newsletter Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC Investigation Software New Vigilant Solutions Channel Program Offers Incentives Including Discounts and Share of Recurring Revenue for Distribution Partners Vigilant Solutions invites qualified resellers to join the company's new worldwide Channel Partner Program. Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc. April 4, 2017 2 min read Add Us On Google LIVERMORE, Calif., March 31, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Vigilant Solutions invites qualified resellers to join the company's new worldwide Channel Partner Program backed by sales incentives, lead management, marketing funds and share of recurring revenue to support distribution of Vigilant's license plate recognition (LPR), analytics and facial recognition technology to the public safety market. "The market for Vigilant's investigative platform includes over 17,000 law enforcement agencies throughout the U.S. This program gives qualified resellers an opportunity to leverage new incentives to market our investigative platform and grow sales. Law enforcement agencies of all sizes benefit from data-driven investigative tools and many have become advocates for Vigilant as they view our platform as a force-multiplier to solve crimes. This program gives our partners the sales tools and incentives for them to be successful," said Neil Schlisserman, Vice President of Sales for Vigilant Solutions. Vigilant's channel program includes an Opportunity Registration Discount to incent and reward resellers for finding new qualified opportunities. The program also awards a percentage of recurring revenue for partners that actively engage with customers on an ongoing basis to support previously purchased systems and sell additional products and services. As part of the program, partners can also take advantage of the new Marketing Development Fund that invests a portion of partner revenue into joint marketing initiatives that support partners' sales efforts. Partners will be supported with a channel management team that includes a partner marketing manager and two channel sales managers. Any resellers interested in becoming a Vigilant partner should contact Vigilant at: partners@vigilantsolutions.com . About Vigilant Solutions: Vigilant Solutions helps law enforcement solve crimes faster. Our easy-to-use interface was designed by former detectives combining analytics with license plate recognition (LPR) and facial recognition to generate more leads. Securely share real-time data with over 1,000 agencies and tap into our commercial LPR database of more than 5 billion detections. Combine your mugshots with our hosted facial recognition gallery and image editing tools to boost potential match searches. Bring criminals to justice with Vigilant Solutions. Visit www.VigilantSolutions.com . Contact: Heather Ford 817-710-7808 media@VigilantSolutions.com Sign up for our eNewsletters Get the latest news and updates Sign Up Related Video Captures Deadly Rifle Attack That Killed Calif. Police Officer The Perfect Off-Duty/Self-Defense Gun? Sponsored First Responder Health & Wellness: An Agency Roadmap Sponsored Historic Collaboration, Innovation for the Future Voice Your Opinion! To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of Officer, create an account today! Join today! I already have an account Trending Video: Suspect Rams LAPD Cruiser Head-On, Points Gun at Police Video: N.Y. Police Officer Stabbed in Back in Violent Street Encounter Mpls. Police Chief Resigns After Investigation Finds Interference Sponsored Picks Sponsored FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response Sponsored Industry Solutions to Transform Operations Sponsored Dedicated to Public Safety Load More Content OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable and reliable information available for law enforcement news, training, operations and innovations. Through our website, electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source for law enforcement professionals. Newsletters The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled by our editors and delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Connect Follow us for the latest industry news and insights. https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC About Us Advertise Do Not Sell or Share Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2026 All rights reserved.