--- page 1 ---
TECHNOLOGY
Vigilant Solutions Recognized
by Long Beach Police
Department for Assistance in
Infant Homicide Case
Vigilant Solutions was recognized publicly at the recent International Association
of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Conference in Chicago by the Long Beach Police
Department.
Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc.
ADD US ON GOOGLE
Nov. 19, 2015
3 min read
Vigilant Solutions' Shawn Smith receiving certificate from Long Beach Police Department's Deputy
Chief David Hendricks.
LIVERMORE, Calif.,-- Vigilant Solutions announces today that it was recognized publicly at the recent
International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Conference inChicagoby theLong BeachPolice
Department for its assistance in a tragic case involving the murder of a three-week old infant.Deputy
ChiefDavid Hendricksand LieutenantLloyd Coxpresented a certificate to Vigilant's Founder and

--- page 2 ---
President,Shawn Smith, outlining some of the details of the case. OnJanuary 4, 2015, an attempted murder
occurred in the 100 block of West 51stStreet in theCity of Long Beach. Three young adult victims were shot
and a three-week old infant was kidnapped from the residence.   Homicide detectives responded to the crime
scene and identified the kidnapped infant asEliza DeLaCruz. Detectives were determined to arrest the
suspects responsible for the shooting and kidnapping, and worked tirelessly to find baby Eliza and return her
to her family.OnJanuary 5, 2015, theSan Diego CountySheriff's Department notified detectives that the body
of an infant was found in a trash dumpster inImperial Beach, California.  The medical examiner confirmed the
identity of the infant asEliza DeLaCruz.Homicide detectives focused their efforts on solving the heinous and
senseless murder of baby Eliza. Detectives had no suspect vehicle information and only a limited physical
description of a single male suspect; therefore they could not even issue an Amber Alert to ask the public for
help in the case.  Detectives combed through the crime scene for evidence, interviewed witnesses and
looked into the background of the shooting victims to determine a motive for the kidnapping and murder of
baby Eliza.Homicide detectives used every investigative tool available to them to gather evidence in the
case, including License Plate Reader (LPR) technology, which can identify vehicles in or around a crime
scene. However, the Long Beach PD's LPR data is limited to vehicles in theCity of Long Beach, and the
homicide investigation extended intoLos Angeles,Orange,Riverside, andSan Diegocounties. Initially,
detectives began making telephone calls to law enforcement agencies in each county to request assistance
with their LPR data in researching possible suspect vehicle information.   Detectives quickly realized this task
was extremely time-consuming.Homicide detectives learned that Vigilant Solutions maintains a national,
commercial LPR database that is made available for law enforcement use.  Detectives contacted Vigilant
Solutions and explained the sensitive nature of the murder investigation.  Vigilant Solutions immediately
arranged for account profiles to be created and provided training to assist detectives in researching available
LPR data to further their investigation. This data, and the analytic tools provided by Vigilant, proved essential
in solving the murder of baby Eliza.About Vigilant Solutions:
Based inLivermore, California, Vigilant Solutions is an industry-leading pioneer of innovative intelligence
solutions that help law enforcement protect officers, families and communities.  For additional information,
visitwww.vigilantsolutions.com.

--- page 3 ---
Sign up for our eNewsletters
Get the latest news and updates
SIGN UP
Related
FBI Stops Alleged Plot
Targeting UFC Event in D.C.;
Arrests Made
Building a Department Officers
Won’t Leave Starts With
Leadership and Culture
SPONSORED
First Responder Health &
Wellness: An Agency Roadmap
SPONSORED
Historic Collaboration,
Innovation for the Future
Voice Your Opinion!

--- page 4 ---
To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of
Officer, create an account today!
JOIN TODAY!
I already have an account
Trending
Video Shows San Francisco Police Officers Run Over by SUV
During Struggle with Suspect
FBI Stops Alleged Plot Targeting UFC Event in D.C.; Arrests Made
Video: Ohio Traffic Stop Erupts Into Gunfire, Ends in Hourslong
Manhunt
Sponsored Picks
SPONSORED
Industry Solutions to Transform Operations
SPONSORED

--- page 5 ---
LOAD MORE CONTENT
OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable
and reliable information available for law enforcement news,
training, operations and innovations. Through our website,
electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other
multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source
for law enforcement professionals.
Newsletters
The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled
by our editors and delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Connect
Follow us for the latest industry news and insights.
About Us
Advertise
Do Not Sell or Share
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Historic Collaboration, Innovation for the Future
SPONSORED
FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response

--- page 6 ---
© 2026 All rights reserved.
