--- page 1 ---
INVESTIGATION SOFTWARE
New Vigilant Solutions
Channel Program Offers
Incentives Including Discounts
and Share of Recurring
Revenue for Distribution
Partners
Vigilant Solutions invites qualified resellers to join the company's new worldwide
Channel Partner Program.
Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc.
ADD US ON GOOGLE
April 4, 2017
2 min read
LIVERMORE, Calif., March 31, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Vigilant Solutions invites
qualified resellers to join the company's new worldwide Channel Partner
Program backed by sales incentives, lead management, marketing funds and
share of recurring revenue to support distribution of Vigilant's license plate

--- page 2 ---
recognition (LPR), analytics and facial recognition technology to the public
safety market.
"The market for Vigilant's investigative platform includes over 17,000 law
enforcement agencies throughout the U.S. This program gives qualified
resellers an opportunity to leverage new incentives to market our investigative
platform and grow sales. Law enforcement agencies of all sizes benefit from
data-driven investigative tools and many have become advocates for Vigilant
as they view our platform as a force-multiplier to solve crimes. This program
gives our partners the sales tools and incentives for them to be successful,"
said Neil Schlisserman, Vice President of Sales for Vigilant Solutions.
Vigilant's channel program includes an Opportunity Registration Discount to
incent and reward resellers for finding new qualified opportunities. The
program also awards a percentage of recurring revenue for partners that
actively engage with customers on an ongoing basis to support previously
purchased systems and sell additional products and services. As part of the
program, partners can also take advantage of the new Marketing Development
Fund that invests a portion of partner revenue into joint marketing initiatives
that support partners' sales efforts.
Partners will be supported with a channel management team that includes a
partner marketing manager and two channel sales managers. Any resellers
interested in becoming a Vigilant partner should contact Vigilant at:
partners@vigilantsolutions.com.
About Vigilant Solutions: Vigilant Solutions helps law enforcement solve
crimes faster. Our easy-to-use interface was designed by former detectives
combining analytics with license plate recognition (LPR) and facial recognition
to generate more leads. Securely share real-time data with over 1,000
agencies and tap into our commercial LPR database of more than 5 billion
detections. Combine your mugshots with our hosted facial recognition gallery
and image editing tools to boost potential match searches. Bring criminals to
justice with Vigilant Solutions. Visit www.VigilantSolutions.com.

--- page 3 ---
Contact: Heather Ford
817-710-7808
media@VigilantSolutions.com
Sign up for our eNewsletters
Get the latest news and updates
SIGN UP
Related
Video Captures Deadly Rifle
Attack That Killed Calif. Police
Officer
The Perfect Off-Duty/Self-
Defense Gun?

--- page 4 ---
SPONSORED
First Responder Health &
Wellness: An Agency Roadmap
SPONSORED
Historic Collaboration,
Innovation for the Future
Voice Your Opinion!
To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of
Officer, create an account today!
JOIN TODAY!
I already have an account
Trending
Video: Suspect Rams LAPD Cruiser Head-On, Points Gun at Police
Video: N.Y. Police Officer Stabbed in Back in Violent Street
Encounter
Mpls. Police Chief Resigns After Investigation Finds Interference
Sponsored Picks

--- page 5 ---
LOAD MORE CONTENT
OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable
and reliable information available for law enforcement news,
training, operations and innovations. Through our website,
electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other
multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source
for law enforcement professionals.
Newsletters
The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled
by our editors and delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Connect
SPONSORED
FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response
SPONSORED
Industry Solutions to Transform Operations
SPONSORED
Dedicated to Public Safety

--- page 6 ---
Follow us for the latest industry news and insights.
About Us
Advertise
Do Not Sell or Share
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 All rights reserved.