Vigilant Solutions Recognized by Long Beach Police Department for Assistance in Infant Homicide Case | Officer The Leader in Products, Technology and Innovation Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical Sections Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical On the Street Training & Careers Investigations Technology Special OFFICER Magazine Podcasts OFFICER Virtual Academy OFFICER Labs Original Content Station Design Station Design Conference Featured Videos Honoring the Fallen Contact About Us Contact Us By Contributor Advertise Subscribe to Magazine Subscribe to Newsletter Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC Technology Vigilant Solutions Recognized by Long Beach Police Department for Assistance in Infant Homicide Case Vigilant Solutions was recognized publicly at the recent International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Conference in Chicago by the Long Beach Police Department. Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc. Nov. 19, 2015 3 min read Add Us On Google Vigilant Solutions Vigilant Solutions' Shawn Smith receiving certificate from Long Beach Police Department's Deputy Chief David Hendricks. LIVERMORE, Calif . , -- Vigilant Solutions announces today that it was recognized publicly at the recent International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Conference in Chicago by the Long Beach Police Department for its assistance in a tragic case involving the murder of a three-week old infant. Deputy Chief David Hendricks and Lieutenant Lloyd Cox presented a certificate to Vigilant's Founder and President, Shawn Smith , outlining some of the details of the case. On January 4, 2015 , an attempted murder occurred in the 100 block of West 51 st Street in the City of Long Beach . Three young adult victims were shot and a three-week old infant was kidnapped from the residence. Homicide detectives responded to the crime scene and identified the kidnapped infant as Eliza DeLaCruz . Detectives were determined to arrest the suspects responsible for the shooting and kidnapping, and worked tirelessly to find baby Eliza and return her to her family. On January 5, 2015 , the San Diego County Sheriff's Department notified detectives that the body of an infant was found in a trash dumpster in Imperial Beach , California. The medical examiner confirmed the identity of the infant as Eliza DeLaCruz . Homicide detectives focused their efforts on solving the heinous and senseless murder of baby Eliza. Detectives had no suspect vehicle information and only a limited physical description of a single male suspect; therefore they could not even issue an Amber Alert to ask the public for help in the case. Detectives combed through the crime scene for evidence, interviewed witnesses and looked into the background of the shooting victims to determine a motive for the kidnapping and murder of baby Eliza. Homicide detectives used every investigative tool available to them to gather evidence in the case, including License Plate Reader (LPR) technology, which can identify vehicles in or around a crime scene. However, the Long Beach PD's LPR data is limited to vehicles in the City of Long Beach , and the homicide investigation extended into Los Angeles , Orange , Riverside , and San Diego counties. Initially, detectives began making telephone calls to law enforcement agencies in each county to request assistance with their LPR data in researching possible suspect vehicle information. Detectives quickly realized this task was extremely time-consuming. Homicide detectives learned that Vigilant Solutions maintains a national, commercial LPR database that is made available for law enforcement use. Detectives contacted Vigilant Solutions and explained the sensitive nature of the murder investigation. Vigilant Solutions immediately arranged for account profiles to be created and provided training to assist detectives in researching available LPR data to further their investigation. This data, and the analytic tools provided by Vigilant, proved essential in solving the murder of baby Eliza. About Vigilant Solutions: Based in Livermore, California , Vigilant Solutions is an industry-leading pioneer of innovative intelligence solutions that help law enforcement protect officers, families and communities. For additional information, visit www.vigilantsolutions.com . Sign up for our eNewsletters Get the latest news and updates Sign Up Related FBI Stops Alleged Plot Targeting UFC Event in D.C.; Arrests Made Building a Department Officers Won’t Leave Starts With Leadership and Culture Sponsored First Responder Health & Wellness: An Agency Roadmap Sponsored Historic Collaboration, Innovation for the Future Voice Your Opinion! To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of Officer, create an account today! Join today! I already have an account Trending Video Shows San Francisco Police Officers Run Over by SUV During Struggle with Suspect FBI Stops Alleged Plot Targeting UFC Event in D.C.; Arrests Made Video: Ohio Traffic Stop Erupts Into Gunfire, Ends in Hourslong Manhunt Sponsored Picks Sponsored Industry Solutions to Transform Operations Sponsored Historic Collaboration, Innovation for the Future Sponsored FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response Load More Content OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable and reliable information available for law enforcement news, training, operations and innovations. Through our website, electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source for law enforcement professionals. Newsletters The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled by our editors and delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Connect Follow us for the latest industry news and insights. https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC About Us Advertise Do Not Sell or Share Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2026 All rights reserved.