--- page 1 ---
TECHNOLOGY
Vigilant Solutions Bolsters
Commercial LPR Database
through Agreement with
MVTRAC
Vigilant Solutions announces today that it has reached an agreement with
MVTRAC that will enable law enforcement to have greater access to
commercially-generated license plate reader (LPR) data via its hosted LEARN®
analytic software.
Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc.
ADD US ON GOOGLE
May 26, 2015
3 min read
LIVERMORE, CALIFORNIA (May 20, 2015) – Vigilant Solutions announces
today that it has reached an agreement with MVTRAC that will enable law
enforcement to have greater access to commercially-generated license plate
reader (LPR) data via its hosted LEARN® analytic software to assist in law
enforcement investigations.
Vigilant Solutions, through its Digital Recognition Network (DRN) operations,
offers the largest commercially gathered LPR dataset available to U.S. law

--- page 2 ---
enforcement via LEARN. LEARN offers advanced analytics along with agency-
managed access controls and auditing. Today’s announcement will now
enable Vigilant Solutions’ law enforcement customers to have access to well
over 3 billion historical LPR scans and over 100 million new LPR scans
monthly.
 “Analytics are made more powerful with additional data,” said Shawn Smith,
Founder and President of Vigilant Solutions. “We are very pleased to have
reached an agreement with MVTRAC to further enable our law enforcement
partners to use this additional data. Coupled with our LEARN analytic solution,
law enforcement will enhance its ability to combat crime and improve the
safety of our families and communities.”
The data from MVTRAC has the same attributes as the existing data from DRN
and only contains a photograph and text of a license plate, along with the
time, date, and location coordinates of the photograph, and other information
for auditing purposes. There is no personal information contained in the data,
and it is legally gathered in publicly accessible areas. The anonymous letters
and numbers of the license plate may only be connected to a registered
owner by law enforcement, in a different system used to access DMV data,
under the rules set forth in the federal Driver’s Privacy Protection Act.
LEARN is also used to manage LPR systems deployed by law enforcement and
make investigative insights into the collected data. LPR data gathered by law
enforcement systems remains the property of the respective agency, and is
managed by the agency according to their access controls, data sharing rules,
and retention policies. The commercial datasets offered by Vigilant are
provided to law enforcement to supplement their own LPR programs and
empower their investigations. Law enforcement generated data is never
shared with or sold to commercial entities.
“We are equally as excited to be working with Vigilant Solutions,” adds Luke
Smith, President of MVTRAC. “Vigilant Solutions’ LEARN analytics, and the
data behind them, have proven themselves to be an effective tool for law

--- page 3 ---
enforcement for the generation of investigative leads, ultimately leading to
improved case closure and reduction of crime. It is very rewarding to know
that the combination of our data and Vigilant’s advanced analytics will enable
law enforcement to better protect and serve.”
About Vigilant Solutions:
Based in Livermore, California, Vigilant Solutions is an industry-leading
pioneer of innovative intelligence solutions that help law enforcement protect
officers, families and communities. For additional information, visit
www.vigilantsolutions.com.
Sign up for our eNewsletters
Get the latest news and updates
SIGN UP
Related
Video Captures Deadly Rifle
Attack That Killed Calif. Police
Officer
The Perfect Off-Duty/Self-
Defense Gun?

--- page 4 ---
SPONSORED
First Responder Health &
Wellness: An Agency Roadmap
SPONSORED
Historic Collaboration,
Innovation for the Future
Voice Your Opinion!
To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of
Officer, create an account today!
JOIN TODAY!
I already have an account
Trending
Video: Knife-Wielding Suspect Lunges at Mich. Police After
Molotov Attack; K-9 Stabbed

--- page 5 ---
LOAD MORE CONTENT
OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable
and reliable information available for law enforcement news,
training, operations and innovations. Through our website,
electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other
multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source
for law enforcement professionals.
Video: Suspect Slips Out of Handcuffs, Steals Dallas Police Cruiser
With Officer Inside
2 N.J. Police Officers Injured Serving Warrant in Deadly Shooting
Sponsored Picks
SPONSORED
FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response
SPONSORED
Industry Solutions to Transform Operations
SPONSORED
The FBI's Expanded Use of FirstNet

--- page 6 ---
Newsletters
The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled
by our editors and delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Connect
Follow us for the latest industry news and insights.
About Us
Advertise
Do Not Sell or Share
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 All rights reserved.