--- page 1 ---
TECHNOLOGY
Vigilant Solutions' enables
Year, Make, and Model Search
Capability within LEARN
Analytic Suite
Vigilant Solutions announces today that its LEARN® analytic suite is now able to
conduct searches of its LPR data based on year, make and model criteria.
Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc.
ADD US ON GOOGLE
May 27, 2016
3 min read
LIVERMORE, Calif., May 24, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Vigilant Solutions
announces today that its LEARN® analytic suite is now able to conduct
searches of its LPR data based on year, make and model criteria.
Tom Joyce, Vice President of Product Development and retired NYPD
Lieutenant, Commander of Detectives, states, "I often talk about the
investigative process as a continuum involving a person, a location, and a
vehicle. It is common to have one - or sometimes two - of the elements, but

--- page 2 ---
very rare to have all three. Vigilant helps to connect the dots and fill in the
missing pieces of information. As it relates to vehicles, it is always nice to
have a license plate or partial plate, but again, this is not that common as
eyewitnesses are more prone to recognize what is familiar to them…the make
or model of the car, maybe a rough idea of the model year, and color. These
are things often heard during the interview process. Because of this reality,
we looked for - and found - a way to translate a license plate number, as read
by one of our cameras, into a reliable year, make and model. This is a pivotal
moment for Vigilant and its customers."
A long-time user of LPR, Lieutenant Chris Morgan of the Long Beach Police
Department in California, adds "Without a full or partial plate, it was
historically very difficult for investigators or detectives to find a vehicle using
traditional LPR search methods. We've had countless cases where we have
only been able to search based on location and date, which sometimes results
in literally thousands of vehicles that someone has to review...often to no avail.
The ability to filter down thousands of vehicles to a select few based on a
known make and model really revolutionizes the LPR search.  This
functionality has been sought after for years, and I am glad to see that Vigilant
was able to deliver on this need and is already working on further
enhancements to this feature.  It will save us many hours, and will result in
leads much quicker, enabling us to make quicker apprehensions...reducing
future crime and potentially saving lives in the process."
About Vigilant Solutions:
Based in Livermore, California, Vigilant Solutions is an industry-leading
pioneer of innovative intelligence solutions that help law enforcement protect
officers, families and communities. For additional information, visit
www.vigilantsolutions.com.
Sign up for our eNewsletters

--- page 3 ---
Get the latest news and updates
SIGN UP
Related
Video Captures Deadly Rifle
Attack That Killed Calif. Police
Officer
The Perfect Off-Duty/Self-
Defense Gun?
SPONSORED
First Responder Health &
Wellness: An Agency Roadmap
SPONSORED
Historic Collaboration,
Innovation for the Future
Voice Your Opinion!

--- page 4 ---
To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of
Officer, create an account today!
JOIN TODAY!
I already have an account
Trending
Video: Suspect Rams LAPD Cruiser Head-On, Points Gun at Police
Video: N.Y. Police Officer Stabbed in Back in Violent Street
Encounter
Mpls. Police Chief Resigns After Investigation Finds Interference
Sponsored Picks
SPONSORED
FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response
SPONSORED
Industry Solutions to Transform Operations

--- page 5 ---
LOAD MORE CONTENT
SPONSORED
Dedicated to Public Safety

--- page 6 ---
OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable
and reliable information available for law enforcement news,
training, operations and innovations. Through our website,
electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other
multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source
for law enforcement professionals.
Newsletters
The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled
by our editors and delivered to your inbox.
SIGN UP
Connect
Follow us for the latest industry news and insights.
About Us
Advertise
Do Not Sell or Share
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 All rights reserved.