Vigilant Solutions Fixed Camera Network Protects La Verne | Officer The Leader in Products, Technology and Innovation Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical Sections Product Guide Forums Command/HQ Vehicles & Fleet Tactical On the Street Training & Careers Investigations Technology Special OFFICER Magazine Podcasts OFFICER Virtual Academy OFFICER Labs Original Content Station Design Webinars Featured Videos Honoring the Fallen Contact About Us Contact Us By Contributor Advertise Subscribe to Magazine Subscribe to Newsletter Follow us on https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC Technology Vigilant Solutions Fixed Camera Network Protects La Verne Vigilant Solutions announces that its fixed cameras are being used by La Verne Police Department in California to improve the safety of the community. Related To: Vigilant Solutions, a part of Motorola Solutions Inc. Sept. 12, 2016 3 min read Add Us On Google LIVERMORE, CALIFORNIA – Vigilant Solutions announces today that its fixed cameras are being used by La Verne Police Department in California to improve the safety of the community. La Verne is a small community within Los Angeles County covering just over 8 square miles and with a population of just over 30,000. The network of 21 fixed cameras has been active now for eight months and is having a noticeable impact in the department’s ability to both protect its neighborhoods from known vehicles of interest and investigate and close cases more rapidly. Lieutenant Chris Fenner explains, “La Verne is not a big city by any stretch of the imagination, but because we are in LA County we see our fair share of criminals either passing through our community or specifically coming into our community to perpetrate crimes. We take an oath to protect and serve, and we take that very seriously. We’ve seen otherwise peaceful communities turned upside down by crime; when that happens, it impacts everything – property values, quality of life, business, and much more. We wanted to take a very proactive measure to reduce the crime that is taking place and prevent future crimes from ever occurring.” “We saw other neighboring communities create a “virtual fence” using license plate reader (LPR) cameras and heard about the results they were generating. After doing a fair amount of research, we elected to install 21 fixed LPR cameras at strategic locations around our community. After only 8 months in operation, I can tell you that they have had a very significant impact. We have identified 28 occupied stolen vehicles entering La Verne and successfully stopped them all. To put this into perspective, we averaged 1-2 stolen recoveries annually prior to having LPR. Stolen vehicles are often used to perpetrate other crimes, and I can say without a doubt that we prevented crimes from taking place by stopping these vehicles. Some of these vehicles were entering residential areas at 1 or 2 in the morning with loaded firearms and burglary tools. As a result of these stops, we have also apprehended individuals wanted for more serious crimes such as kidnapping and assault with a deadly weapon.” “But in addition to helping us identify these threats entering our community, the data collected by the cameras also helps us investigate cases. We have solved numerous residential and commercial burglary cases, using vehicle descriptions such as year, make and model, or a partial plate, coupled with a location. We have located at least 3 domestic violence suspects using historical data to understand where the suspects’ vehicles have previously been seen.” Lieutenant Fenner concludes, “The system has been a tremendous force multiplier for our department, and is helping us not only reduce – but prevent crime. Based on our success, we are in the process of expanding the system to further secure our community giving our residents confidence and sending a signal to criminals that they will be caught if they try to bring crime into our community.” About Vigilant Solutions: Vigilant Solutions helps law enforcement solve crimes faster. Our easy-to-use interface was designed by former detectives combining analytics with license plate recognition (LPR) and facial recognition to generate more leads. Securely share real-time data amongst 1,000+ agencies and tap into our commercial LPR database of 4+ billion detections. Combine your mugshots with our hosted facial recognition gallery and image editing tools to boost potential match searches. Bring criminals to justice with Vigilant Solutions. Visit www.vigilantsolutions.com. Sign up for our eNewsletters Get the latest news and updates Sign Up Related Video Captures Deadly Rifle Attack That Killed Calif. Police Officer The Perfect Off-Duty/Self-Defense Gun? Sponsored First Responder Health & Wellness: An Agency Roadmap Sponsored Historic Collaboration, Innovation for the Future Voice Your Opinion! To join the conversation, and become an exclusive member of Officer, create an account today! Join today! I already have an account Trending Bodycam Shows Colo. Police Officer, K-9 Stabbed in Violent Mental Health Encounter Video: Knife-Wielding Suspect Lunges at Mich. Police After Molotov Attack; K-9 Stabbed Video: Ariz. Police Shoot Woman Who Points Gun Inside Station Sponsored Picks Sponsored FirstNet Phones Prove Vital in Disaster Response Sponsored Industry Solutions to Transform Operations Sponsored The FBI's Expanded Use of FirstNet Load More Content OFFICER Media Group's mission is to provide the most valuable and reliable information available for law enforcement news, training, operations and innovations. Through our website, electronic newsletters, magazine, virtual academy and other multimedia channels, we are the best and most informative source for law enforcement professionals. Newsletters The top stories, industry insights and relevant research, assembled by our editors and delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Connect Follow us for the latest industry news and insights. https://www.facebook.com/officercom https://www.instagram.com/officercom_media/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/officer-com https://twitter.com/officercom https://www.youtube.com/@OfficercomSC About Us Advertise Do Not Sell or Share Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2026 All rights reserved.