source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2d48af0343f6af31b8885d26cefbdd7cf710214b41209327503940af3ebad0c0
pages: 45
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
March 22, 2022
6:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
vacant
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 22, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 819 1830 3270
Passcode: 738538
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Two-Story Private Indoor Tennis Court at 2164 Palm Ave. (PA-2021-062)
Review the proposed use and project design on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input
to the applicant and staff on the overall project as proposed with specific focus on the following project elements:
Proposed Use – Provide input on the proposed use and compatibility with the adjacent commercial uses; Building
Design – Provide input on the overall building design, massing, and materials.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.

--- page 2 ---
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special
accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure
accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 22-5839
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 22, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Two-Story Private Indoor Tennis Court at 2164 Palm Ave. (PA-2021-062) 
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed use and project design on a preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide input to the 
applicant and staff on the overall project as proposed with specific focus on the following project elements: 
1.
Proposed Use – Provide input on the proposed use and compatibility with the adjacent commercial uses;
2.
Building Design – Provide input on the overall building design, massing, and materials. 
BACKGROUND:
The applicant has submitted a Preliminary Planning Application (PA-2021-062) to construct a new two-story indoor private 
tennis facility on a vacant parking lot located at 2164 Palm Avenue.  The proposed 14,673 square-foot building consists of a 
single clay tennis court, warmup, stretching, and backboard areas, two restrooms, storage and mechanical areas, and a 
second-floor clubhouse with three off-street surface parking spaces located at the front of the structure. 
 
As proposed, the project would require a Special Use Permit (SUP) for a private non-commercial recreational use in a 
service commercial district and a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the new building and associated site 
improvements.  At this time, the subject pre-application focuses on the use, site plan, and broader design issues.  Project 
plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plan, building design, and materials are included in Attachment 1. 
As outlined below, this project may have potential conformance issues with the intent of the C4 (Service Commercial) 
District, the Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans, the number of off-street parking spaces provided, and the configuration 
of the proposed three car surface parking lot.  The applicant was provided a list of potential conformance issues in an 
initial conceptual plan comment letter included in Attachment 7.  Following the Planning Commission Study Session, it is 
anticipated the applicant would further develop their proposal with greater consistency to City standards and to address 
comments from this study session prior to submittal of the formal planning application. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site
The project site is a vacant parking lot located at 2164 Palm Avenue.  The site has a narrow rectangular shape with a 
frontage of 81 feet along Palm Avenue and a total lot area of 14,990 square-feet (0.34 acres).  The site is bounded by Palm 
Avenue to the east, one and two-story development to the west and south, and a hotel/inn to the north.  Adjacent uses 
include retail uses and El Camino Real to the west, the Stone Villa Inn1 to the north, and commercial uses to the south and 
east.  
1 The County is pursuing a Homekey program to purchase the Stone Villa Inn and provide housing for homeless County residents. 
3 of 45

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The site’s General Plan Land Use Designation is Service Commercial and it is zoned C4-1 (Service Commercial).  Parcels to 
the north, south, and east of the project site share the same C4-1 zoning designation and Service Commercial General Plan 
Land Use Designation.  Adjacent parcels to the west, which front El Camino Real, are zoned C3-1/R4 (Regional/ Community 
Commercial with a R4 high-density residential overlay) and have a General Plan Land Use Designation of 
Regional/Community Commercial/High Density Multi-Family).  A project vicinity map is included as Attachment 2.
Building Program and Site Plan
The subject pre-application proposes a new 14,673 square-foot, two story, indoor clay tennis court for private, personal 
recreational use and is not intended for commercial purposes or for use by the public.  Further discussion, regarding the 
proposed use of the site can be found in the Items for Planning Commission Discussion section below.  The ground floor 
consists of a clay tennis court, warm-up backboard area, turf area, lobby, restroom and storage shed.  Additional storage, a 
mechanical room, clubhouse, and second restroom are located on the second story.  The project provides three off-street 
surface parking spaces located at the front of the building.  Sidewalk improvements such as adding a 4-foot planting strip 
along the front property line, additional landscaping within the surface parking lot and a 7-foot entry fence and gate along 
the front property line serve to soften the appearance of the parking lot and structure as viewed from the street.  
The architectural style of the proposed building is best characterized as industrial based on the rectangular massing of the 
building, use of brick veneer, cement panels, aluminum windows, steel canopy, and flat roof form at the front of the 
structure.  An arched fabric roof assembly is proposed at the rear of the structure over the tennis court to provide the 
vertical height necessary for a regulation tennis court.  A discussion of the building’s design is continued in the Items for 
Planning Commission Discussion section of this report.  Project plans showing the conceptual site plan, floor plans, and 
elevations are included in Attachment 1. 
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan 
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Service Commercial, which is intended to provide a broad 
range of city-wide or regional services and small manufacturing that are usually not available in neighborhood shopping 
areas.  Service Commercial zoned areas comprise less than 1% of all commercially zoned land within the City and are 
concentrated along Palm Avenue, Amphlett Boulevard, and Claremont/Railroad Avenue.  Identified as providing a mix of 
commercial and vital community services, General Plan Land Use policy LU-1.13 specifically seeks to promote the retention 
of Service Commercial areas and businesses by prohibiting residential uses within these districts.  A preliminary list of 
applicable General Plan policies is provided in Attachment 3.
Zoning Code
The project site is zoned C4-1 (Service Commercial), which implements the goals of the General Plan in encouraging the 
continuation of commercial uses and accommodating manufacturing and service uses of community-wide and regional 
significance along Palm Avenue.  As further discussed in the Items for Planning Commission Discussion-Proposed Use 
section below, while commercial recreation is an allowable use in the C4-1 zoning district (San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 27.36), staff is seeking Planning Commission guidance on whether the proposed private, non-commercial, 
recreational use of the property can be considered a compatible district use allowed with the issuance of a Special Use 
Permit (SUP).  
The project is subject to the development standards of the C4-1 zoning district, found in Chapter 27.36 of the Zoning Code 
and conforms to the floor area ratio, setback, and height development standards of the C4-1 zoning district.  The project 
proposes a FAR of 0.97 where a maximum of 1.0 is allowed and the proposed building height of 30 feet conforms with the 
maximum district height limit of 30 feet.  The Municipal Code does not require setbacks for properties located in 
commercial zoning districts.  While Section 27.36.060 of the Municipal Code requires buffers or transitional yards be 
provided when a service commercial property adjoins a residential district, the project site does not adjoin a residentially 
zoned parcel2 and is not required to provide transitional yards.  The project proposes zero rear and side yard setbacks and 
2 Properties along El Camino to the west of the project site are zoned Commercial with a residential overlay (C3-1/R4). With no residential uses on 
these parcels, the adjacent C3-1/R4 zoned parcels are not considered a residential district for the purpose of determining yards.
4 of 45

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a zero-to-36-foot angled front yard setback and is in conformance with the zoning code.  
For the purposes of calculating required off-street parking, the project most closely aligns with commercial ‘tennis, 
handball, and racquetball facilities’ which requires ‘three spaces per court plus stalls required for the additional uses’ on 
site as outlined in Municipal Code Chapter 27.64.160.4.(i) (Off-Street Parking and Loading).  Uses on site in addition to the 
proposed private tennis court include a 927 square-foot second story clubhouse, a 1,718 square-foot backboard/exercise 
area, and a 1,097 square-foot turf area.  The applicant has proposed to provide three off-street parking spaces at the front 
of the structure for the tennis facility.  Per Municipal Code Chapter 27.64, ancillary uses on site most closely align with 
‘health studios and spas’ (i.e. gyms) and would require an additional 25 parking spaces.  As the project is not intended to 
be used as a public or commercial recreational facility but for private and personal use only, the applicant has elected to 
perform a site-specific parking study to determine if the additional uses on site generate the need for 25 additional parking 
spaces.  The City intends to conduct a parking study during the formal application stage and the site plan may shift pending 
the results of the study to accommodate additional on-site parking.  The project is also required to provide two short-term 
bicycle parking.  Currently, no onsite bicycle parking is proposed. 
A project data sheet outlining the applicable Zoning Code standards and the pre-application’s conformance to them are 
included in Attachment 4.
Pedestrian Master Plan 
The 2012 Citywide Pedestrian Master plan contains recommendations to improve the pedestrian realm throughout the 
City.  Upon filing of the formal planning application, staff will evaluate the project for consistency with the Pedestrian 
Master Plan, particularly for sidewalk standards.  Based on the type of development, the applicable sidewalk standard is 
A.8 Retail/Commercial Type A New Development.  This standard recommends a minimum overall sidewalk width of 14 feet 
along the Palm Avenue street frontage which includes a planter/furniture zone, a sidewalk through zone, and a frontage 
zone which is necessary for commercial areas with a mix of uses and high pedestrian traffic.  
The project site is located along Palm Avenue which sees little pedestrian traffic and is surrounded by service commercial 
uses.  Adjacent sidewalks are approximately 5-feet wide with paved over 3 to 5-foot buffer zones between the sidewalk 
and the front property lines of adjacent properties.  As presently designed, the project proposes an overall sidewalk width 
of 13-feet 6-inches which includes a 5-foot  sidewalk through zone, a 4-foot frontage zone, and a 4-foot planter and 
furniture zone along Palm Avenue.  This width is less than the 14-foot width recommended in the Pedestrian Master Plan.  
In the formal planning application review, staff expects the applicant to further develop the site plan and sidewalk designs 
within the context of the site for greater consistency with the Pedestrian Master Plan and to address comments from the 
study session. 
Bicycle Master Plan 
The 2020 Bicycle Master Plan provides policies and recommendations to implement citywide infrastructure improvements 
to support bicycle use.  The Bicycle Master Plan also lays out a proposed network of various bicycle lanes, paths, and 
routes.  Currently, there is a bicycle boulevard along Palm Avenue where bicyclists share road with vehicular traffic.  
Instead of a bicycle boulevard, the Bicycle Master Plan anticipates a future bicycle lane (Class II) in which bicyclists do not 
share the road but ride adjacent to vehicular traffic in a designated lane along Palm Avenue.  
Compared to existing conditions, the project’s proposed sidewalk improvements extend the width of the sidewalk 
approximately four additional feet into the vehicular right-of-way.  This results in a potential conflict with the anticipated 
bicycle lane along Palm Avenue.  Other options, such as pushing a portion of the proposed sidewalk improvements inward 
onto the project parcel may be a way to accommodate both the Pedestrian Master Plan and avoid conflicts with the 
Bicycle Master Plan.  Such plans, however, would necessitate adjustments to the proposed building and site layout - 
including on-site parking. 
A full evaluation of the project’s consistency with the Bicycle Master Plan will be completed during the review of the 
formal planning application.
5 of 45

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ITEMS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION:
Proposed Use
As indicated in the Project Site Section, the project is located along Palm Avenue which consists of parcels zoned C4-1 
(Service Commercial) from 25th Avenue to 20th Avenue.  The intent of the Service Commercial District is to provide and 
maintain access to a broad range of commercial uses, provide convenient vital services of community-wide and regional 
significance, generate tax revenue, and contribute to a diverse employment base within the City.  Per the 2030 General 
Plan, approximately 4.5% of the land area within the city allows for commercial uses.  Of that, Service Commercial districts 
account for 0.83% of all commercially zoned land.  General Plan Land Use Policy 1.13 further seeks to preserve service 
commercial areas within the City by prohibiting new residential development within these limited areas.  
Existing uses in the Service Commercial (C4) district along Palm Avenue include a mixture of warehouse, automotive 
repair, small scale manufacturing, and other compatible regional community serving uses located in one to two story 
buildings.  
As outlined in Municipal Code Section 27.36.010 all uses in the C1, C2, and C3 districts are permitted in the C4 district.  
Specific uses such as office and residential uses are prohibited on Palm Avenue between 20th and 25th Avenues.  
Similarly, any special uses permitted in the C1, C2, and C3 zoning districts are also permitted as a special use in the C4 
Zoning District.  Residential and secondary unit special uses are specifically prohibited in the C4 zoning district (Municipal 
Code Section 27.36.020).  
Commercial recreation (which includes tennis courts/facilities) is identified as an allowable special use in the C2 District.  
As such, a commercial recreational use could be permitted within the C4 District with the issuance of a Special Use Permit 
(SUP).  The C2 District (and by extension the C4 District) also allows other non-designated compatible uses as determined 
by the Zoning Administrator with the issuance of a Special Use Permit (SUP).  Per Municipal Code Section 27.74.020, the 
Planning Commission has the power to grant identified special uses.  When granting other non-designated special uses, 
the Planning Commission must conclude and find that: 

The use is so similar to any specifically allowed use in the district as to be virtually identical in terms of impact and 
land use requirements; and 

That the proposed use will not have an adverse effect on the general health and/or welfare of the community, 
and that it will not cause disturbance to the adjacent properties by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, 
noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes, or industrial waste.  
The proposed indoor tennis facility is for the private personal use of the property owner and any invited guests and is not 
intended for commercial purposes or a use of community or regional significance.  While private and commercial tennis 
recreational facilities host similar activities, there are some differences including, but not limited to, operational 
characteristics, people served, number of people visiting the facility, hours of operation, parking, etc.  A non-commercial 
recreational use is not typically seen in the C4-1 zoning district and there are no other indoor private personal tennis 
facilities located in commercial zones within the City.  
Given the unique nature of the proposed Special Use, staff is seeking early direction from the Planning Commission on 
whether the proposed non-commercial use may be a compatible use in the C4 district.  If deemed a compatible use, the 
project would require the approval of a SUP as part of the formal planning application.
Staff requests that the Planning Commission provide input on the proposed private indoor tennis facility use.  When 
considering the proposed use, the Commission should consider: 

Does the proposed project meet the General Plan’s intent to preserve Service Commercial zoned parcels, which 
provide commercial services and services of community and regional significance?

Is a private non-commercial tennis recreational use similar to a commercial tennis recreational use? Could that use 
be considered a compatible use in the C4 (Service Commercial) District and virtually identical in terms of impact 
and land use requirements to a commercial recreational use?

Does the Planning Commission have any preliminary concerns relating to the SUP finding that the use would not 
have an adverse effect on the general health and/or welfare of the community, and that it will not cause 
6 of 45

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
disturbance to the adjacent properties by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, 
fumes, or industrial waste? 
Site Plan 
As currently proposed, a three-space on-site surface parking lot is proposed at the front of the building.  To soften the 
appearance of the parking lot and structure as viewed from the street, a 4-foot planting strip along the front property line, 
additional landscaping within the surface parking lot, and a 7-foot entry fence and gate along the front property line have 
been proposed.  At this time, the conceptual plans do not specify the exact type of landscaping proposed nor provide 
elevations of the proposed entry fence.  
As mentioned above, additional parking may also be required pending the results of a parking demand study which will be 
conducted during the formal planning application phase.  The current configuration of this conceptual surface parking lot 
does not meet the minimum vehicle backup standards required by the City’s parking standards.  A reconfiguration of the 
parking lot will be required upon formal planning application submittal and may include the reduction of the building 
footprint. 
In an effort to meet the sidewalk standards outlined in the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan, the applicant has proposed to 
expand the sidewalk 4 feet into the right-of-way to accommodate a planter and furniture zone.  Further expansion into the 
right-of-way may result in a conflict with an anticipated bicycle lane proposed along Palm Avenue.  Options such as 
reducing the width of the overall sidewalk or pushing a portion of the proposed sidewalk improvements inward onto the 
project parcel may be potential ways to accommodate both the Pedestrian Master Plan and avoid conflicts with the Bicycle 
Master Plan.  Such methods may result in sidewalks that do not meet the goals of the Pedestrian Master Plan or may 
further constrain on-site parking and could result in the elimination of an on-site parking space or spaces, or a reduction in 
the footprint of the proposed structure to accommodate required on-site parking. 
At this time, staff requests the Planning Commission provide input on the conceptual building site plan which includes 
proposed sidewalk improvements and the configuration of onsite parking.  When considering the proposed project, the 
Commission should consider:

Is the building’s footprint appropriate in terms of the overall size of the parcel? 

Is there adequate parking and circulation in terms of parking lot configuration and usability?

Does the proposed building footprint and surface parking lot allow for sidewalk improvements that meet the goals 
of the Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans?  Are any design modifications suggested to increase compatibility with 
the Pedestrian and Bicycle Master Plans?
Building Design
The project site is located in a semi-industrial area along Palm Avenue comprised of various building forms and 
architectural styles.  Adjacent development consists of a two-story stucco inn to the north, two-story rectangular stucco 
and brick commercial/automotive repair building to the south, and a mix of one and two-story rectangular brick and 
stucco automotive repair and commercial buildings to the east. 
The overall architectural style of the proposed building is best categorized as industrial based on its rectangular massing, 
use of red brick veneer, cement board cladding, steel canopy, aluminum windows and flat roof form at the front of the 
structure.  Instead of incorporating physical wall articulation, the illusion of articulation is created by a change in roof 
forms with a flat fabric roof located at the front of the building over the turf, warmup, and clubhouse areas and an arched 
fabric roof assembly at the rear of the building over the tennis court.  The arched roof form over the tennis court, which is 
visible beyond the proposed flat roof over the front of the structure, is located 50-feet from the front property line and 
was incorporated into the building to provide the vertical height necessary for a regulation tennis court.  
At this time, staff is seeking Planning Commission direction on the design and architectural style of the building.  The 
Planning Commission should consider: 

If the overall architectural design and materials employed are appropriate and for this area? 

Are any design modifications suggested to increase neighborhood compatibility?
7 of 45

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Should the project be reviewed by the City’s third-party design review consultant during the formal application 
submittal?
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting on Monday February 28, 2022 in which three members 
of the public attended.  After a presentation by the applicant in which they described the proposed project, building 
design, and proposed materials no comments or questions were raised by the attendees.  Staff received one public 
comment following the neighborhood meeting (see Attachment 8).  Concerns were raised about the current 
maintenance/upkeep of the property, a lack of on-site parking, and that the facility looks to be is more commercial nature 
than for personal use.  As of the date of this report, no further public comments have been received. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the review of a pre-application is not a project under the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because the Planning Commission is not taking action at this time.  An 
environmental review will be conducted as part of the formal planning application.
NEXT STEPS:
Following this Study Session, the applicant and project architect will have the opportunity to revise the design based on 
feedback received by the public and Planning Commission.  As currently proposed, the project is anticipated to require the 
following planning applications, which would be subject to approval by the Planning Commission:
1.
Special Use Permit (SMMC 27.36.020) to permit a private indoor tennis court for personal use as a compatible use 
on a parcel zoned C4-1; and,
2.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SMMC 27.08.030) for new non-residential development over 10,000 square-
feet. 
Sample Findings of approval for the above planning application types are included as Attachment 5. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing requirements, this Study 
Session was noticed to the following parties at least 10 days in advance of the neighborhood meeting and Planning 
Commission meeting: 

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The City’ Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Project Plans
Att 2 – Location Map  
Att 3 – Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies 
Att 4 – Preliminary Data Sheet
Att 5 – Sample Findings for Approval
Att 6 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary  
Att 7 – Initial Comment Letter 
Att 8 – Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Richstone, Associate Planner
lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7205
8 of 45

--- page 9 ---
Le Court Rouge
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
9 of 45

--- page 10 ---
Le Court Rouge - Project Data / Sheet Index
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: no scale
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
Page 01
10 of 45

--- page 11 ---
	
Le Court Rouge - Site Plan
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:100
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
Page 02
0
50
100
SITE
11 of 45

--- page 12 ---
Le Court Rouge - Ground Floor Plan
A
A
B
B
legend:
site
enclosed space
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
Page 03
1
Page 6
1
Page 7
2
Page 7
2
Page 6
Page
8
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
A1
A1
Page
8
Page 8
--
Page 3.1
12 of 45

--- page 13 ---
Le Court Rouge - Enlarged Partial Ground Floor Plan - A.6 Sidewalk Standard
site
enclosed space
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1/8"=1'-0"
Swatt | Miers Architects
11/30/21
Page 3.1
13 of 45

--- page 14 ---
Le Court Rouge - Second Floor Plan
A
A
B
B
legend:
site
enclosed space
Page 04
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
1
Page 6
1
Page 7
2
Page 7
2
Page 6
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
A1
A1
Page
8
Page 8
14 of 45

--- page 15 ---
Le Court Rouge - Roof Plan
A
A
B
B
Page 05
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
1
Page 6
1
Page 7
2
Page 7
2
Page 6
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
Page 8
A1
A1
Page
8
Page 8
15 of 45

--- page 16 ---
Le Court Rouge - Exterior Elevations
Page 06
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
1. East Elevation (Palm. Ave.)
2. South Elevation
16 of 45

--- page 17 ---
Le Court Rouge - Exterior Elevations
Page 07
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
1. West Elevation
2. North Elevation
17 of 45

--- page 18 ---
Le Court Rouge - Building Sections
Page 08
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1:30
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
1. Cross Section 'A'
3. Longitudinal Section 'B'
2. Cross Section 'A1'
18 of 45

--- page 19 ---
Le Court Rouge - Material Board
Page 09
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: no scale
Swatt | Miers Architects
9/17/21
dark bronze aluminum
window system
(punched)
fabric roof assembly-interior
fiber cement panel siding and reveal joints
red thin brick veneer cladding
east elevation (palm ave.)
north elevation (west and south elevations sim.)
fabric roof assembly-exterior
19 of 45

--- page 20 ---
Location Map 
PA-2021-062 
2164 Palm Avenue  
 
Address: 2164 Palm Avenue 
Parcel Number: 039-073-510 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site 
Project Site 
20 of 45

--- page 21 ---
ATTACHMENT 3 
GENERAL PLAN ELEMENTS AND POLICIES 
PA-2021-062, 2164 PALM AVE. INDOOR TENNIS FACILITY PRE-APP 
 
2164 PALM AVE., SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
PARCEL # 039-073-510 
 
City of San Mateo General Plan – Applicable Policies 
Adopted October 18, 2010 
 
Development of the site is guided by the following relevant planning documents: 
 
1. General Plan Vision 2030 
Available online at:  http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2021 
 
2. City of San Mateo Zoning Code 
Available online at:  http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=1122 
 
3. 2020 Bicycle Master Plan 
Available online at: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85445  
 
4. Pedestrian Master Plan 
Available online at: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2218/Pedestrian-Master-Plan  
 
Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies are listed to facilitate further discussion and 
direction for the project at this preliminary stage.  The formal planning application submittal will 
be required to provide further clarification and/or documentation to ensure conformance with 
all applicable polices and guidelines.     
 
Land Use Element 
 
LU 1.5:  
Building Height. Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix 
C, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2, closely matched with the Land Use 
categories and Building Intensity standards. 
 
LU 1.13: 
Prohibit Residential Uses in Service Commercial/Manufacturing Areas. To 
promote the retention of service commercial areas which provide convenient, 
vital community services and a balanced local economy; prohibit new residential 
development in service commercial/manufacturing areas delineated on the Land 
Use Plan. Require businesses locating adjacent to residential areas to minimize 
nuisance impacts such as noise, odors, lighting glare, litter, intrusion of overflow 
parking and traffic. 
 
21 of 45

--- page 22 ---
LU 4.2 
Developer’s Contribution Policy.  Require new development to pay on an 
equitable basis for new or expanded public improvements needed to support 
the new or changed land use or development. 
 
LU 4.32: 
Recycling and Composting.  Support programs to recycle solid waste in 
compliance with State requirements. Require provisions for onsite recycling for 
all new development and expand composting of green waste and food scraps, as 
directed by the City’s Climate Action Plan which is an appendix of the General 
Plan. 
 
LU 8.9 
Air Quality Construction Impacts.  The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures: 
 
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be 
applied to all construction activities within San Mateo. 
 
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with 
applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos 
containing materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and 
asbestos. 
 
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time 
of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include the 
utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the length 
of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and utilization 
of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment (alternative 
fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters). 
 
Circulation Element 
 
C 2.4: 
Transportation Fee Ordinance. Require new developments to pay their 
proportionate share of the costs for planned on and off site roadway 
improvements. Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary 
improvement equitably.  
 
C 4.1: 
Bicycle Master Plan.  Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully-connected safe and logical 
bikeways system; support the City's Sustainable Transportation Actions; and 
coordinate with the countywide system.  
 
22 of 45

--- page 23 ---
C.4.4: 
Pedestrian Master Plan.  Implement the Pedestrian Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a walkable environment in San 
Mateo and support the City’s Sustainable Transportation Actions. 
 
C 4.5:  
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Continue to require as a 
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and 
wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged 
sidewalks. Require that utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on 
sidewalks be placed and maintained to permit wheelchair access and pedestrian 
use. Increase awareness of existing trails and routes by promoting these amenities 
to residents. 
 
C 4.7:  
Pedestrian Safety.  Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of 
intersection and other roadway improvements. 
 
GOAL 5: 
Provide an adequate parking supply for new development.  
 
C 5.1:  
Parking Standards. 
a. Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking supply 
as a condition of development approval. 
 
b. Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking supply 
for change and/or expansion of land use resulting in increased parking 
demand. 
 
Urban Design Element 
 
UD 2.7:  
Respect Existing Scale. Encourage new commercial development to respect the 
scale of surrounding buildings by providing breaks in the building face at spacings 
common to buildings in the area and by stepping back upper floors. 
 
UD 2.8:  
Trademark Building Forms.  Discourage ‘signature’ or trademark building forms 
or colors where they would contribute to the visual clutter of the area. 
 
UD 2.14:  
Sustainable Design and Building Construction. Require new development and 
building alterations to conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and 
subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to 
sustainable building construction. 
 
 
Conservation and Open Space Element  
 
23 of 45

--- page 24 ---
C/OS 6.6: 
New Development Street Trees. C/OS 6.6: New Development Street Trees. 
Require street tree planting as a condition of all new developments in accordance 
with the adopted Street Tree Master Plan.  
 
C/OS 6.7: 
 Street Tree Planting. Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the 
City. 
 
Safety Element 
 
S 1.3:  
Erosion Control.  Require erosion control measures for all development sites 
where grading activities are occurring, including those having landslide deposits, 
past erosion problems, the potential for storm water quality impacts, or slopes 
of 15% or greater which are to be altered.  Control measures shall retain natural 
topographic and physical features of the site if feasible. 
 
Noise Element 
 
N 2.1:  
Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City's existing 
noise control ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to 
neighbors of normal sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and b) 
restricts the hours of construction to minimize noise impact. 
 
N 2.2: 
Minimize Noise Impact.  Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables N-1 
and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3dB 
(Ldn) or greater at the common property line, or new uses which generate noise 
levels of 60 dB (Ldn) or greater at the property line, excluding existing ambient noise 
levels.  
 
N 2.3:  
Minimize Commercial Noise.  Protect land uses other than those listed as "noise 
sensitive" in Table N 1 from adverse impacts caused by the on-site noise generated 
by new developments.  Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into 
development design to minimize noise impacts.  Prohibit new uses which generate 
noise levels of 65 dB (LDN) or above at the property line, excluding ambient noise 
levels. 
 
24 of 45

--- page 25 ---
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
          330 West 20th Avenue 
           San Mateo, CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
PRELIMINARY DATA SHEET
PA: 2021-062 
ADDRESS: 2164 Palm Ave 
APN: 039-073-510 
LOT SIZE: 14,990 square feet 
(sq. ft.)  
ZONING: C4-1 
DESCRIPTION: Pre-App for a new 14,673 sq. ft. building to house a private indoor tennis facility. The 
building will include one clay tennis court, tennis backwall, turf area for warm-up, agility training and 
stretching, two bathrooms with showers, and a lounge area for guests.  
PROPOSED 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
Floor Area 
14,673 sq. ft. 
14,990 sq. ft. 
F.A.R. 
1st Floor 
2nd Floor 
Total 
1st floor:  12,984 sq. ft.  
2nd floor:   1,689 sq. ft.  
Total: 0.97 (14,672 sq. ft.) 
1.0 (14,990 sq. ft.) 
BLDG. HEIGHT1 
30’-0’’ 
30’-0’’ 
STORIES 
2 
N/A 
PROPOSED 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
SETBACKS 
Front: 
0 – 36’-0’’ 
0’-0’’ 
Left Side: 
0’-0’’ 
0’-0’’ 
Right Side: 
0’-0’’ 
0’-0’’ 
Rear: 
0 – 13’-3’’ 
0’-0’’ 
1 Maximum height is measured to the plate height of the structure; not its peak height. 
25 of 45

--- page 26 ---
2 
PARKING TYPES 
1 
1 
1 
3 
3 spaces per court plus spaces for 
additional uses on site.  Approx. 
3601 sq. ft. additional health 
studio/spa (i.e. gym) use on site 
would require 25 additional 
spaces. 
TOTAL: 28* 
Standard: 
Compact 
Disabled: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
ONSITE LOADING 
None 
N/A 
BICYCLE PARKING 
None 
2 
STREET TREES 
None 
To be determined at formal Planning 
Application 
PKG.  LOT LANDSCAPING 
123 sq. ft. 
To be determined at formal Planning 
Application 
FEMA FLOOD ZONE 
Flood Zone X 
*The applicant has elected to perform a site-specific parking generation study to determine parking demand for
ancillary uses on site.
26 of 45

--- page 27 ---
ATTACHMENT 5 
SAMPLE FINDINGS 
PA-2021-062, 2164 PALM AVE. PRIVATE TENNIS COURT PRE-APP 
 
2164 PALM AVE., SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
PARCEL # 039-073-510 
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP) – FINDINGS (SMMC 27.74.020):  
The application shall be approved if the Planning Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
1) When granting non-designated special uses, the Planning Commission concludes that the 
proposed use(s) are so similar to any specifically allowed use in the district as to be virtually 
identical thereto in terms of impact and land use requirements.  
 
2) Granting of the Special Permit will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare 
of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by 
excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste. 
 
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) – FINDINGS (SMMC 27.08.030):  
The application shall be approved if the Planning Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of the 
neighborhood; 
2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City;  
3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, and 
otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Planning Commission, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the 
zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; 
5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
 
27 of 45

--- page 28 ---
MEETING MINUTES  
FORMAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING -  
LE COURT ROUGE PROJECT AT 2164 PALM AVE 
 
MEETING DETAILS 
Organizer 
Nick Courtot 
Date 
Monday, February 28, 2022 
Time 
7:00pm – 7:35pm 
Location 
Zoom Video Conference  
Le Court Rouge 
Team 
George Meirs (Partner, SWATT | MIERS ARCHITECTS) 
Stephen Poon (Architect, SWATT | MIERS ARCHITECTS) 
Nick Courtot (Property Owner) 
City of San Mateo 
Staff 
Laura Richstone (Associate Planner) 
Julia Klein (Planner) 
Attendees 
Ryan Baux  
May Bean 
Mariko Sakai 
Manira Sandhir 
Jeff 
 
AGENDA ITEMS 
Time 
Item 
Task 
7:05 – 7:12pm 
Welcome 
Nick Courtot, the owner, introduced himself and provided 
background and motivations for the project. Stressed that 
this was his childhood dream and that the facility would 
be used for personal use only.  
n/a 
7:12 – 7:29pm 
 
 
Plans 
George Miers, the architect, presented and explained the 
plans in detail.  
n/a 
7:29 – 7:35pm 
Comments and Close Out 
Comments and questions were opened up. No comments 
or questions were posed. 
 
Laura Richstone concluded the meeting, repeating to the 
attendees that the plans presented are still in their 
conceptual phase and are subject to change. Specifically, 
that there could be some potential design issues 
surrounding parking and side walk requirements. A 
formal study session with the planning commission will 
be scheduled next to review regulations and discuss 
questions related to the proposed use. The meeting is 
currently scheduled for March 22, 2022. It will be open to 
the public for comments and the agenda report will be 
released online the Friday before the meeting.  
Laura R. to 
mail out 
notices for 
next 
meeting 
with 
instructions 
to access 
the agenda 
report. 
 
28 of 45

--- page 29 ---
Page 1 of 9 
 
                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
October 28, 2021 
 
Nicolas Courtot 
1011 Merner Road 
Hillsborough, CA  94010 
lenickcourtot@gmail.com 
 
Subject:  
PA-2021-062, 2164 Palm Ave., Pre App  
 
2164 Palm Ave., APN 039-073-510 
 
Dear Mr. Courtot, 
 
 
This letter is a follow up to your Preliminary Application “Pre-App” submittal of September 29, 2021. The 
plans were routed to the Planning and Building Divisions, and the Fire, Parks and Recreation, Police, and 
Public Works Departments. Their comments are enclosed for your review. Please be aware that these 
are comments on the preliminary application plans only.  It is very difficult to identify all issues for a 
preliminary application.  Many of the comments provided are divided into issues related to the 
preliminary application and issues or items related to the future, formal planning application.  Upon 
your formal Planning Application submittal, a more complete planning application review will occur, and 
there may be additional information requested by the Development Review Board, Planning 
Commission, or City Council during the formal planning application review process. 
 
Should you have any further questions regarding your project, please contact me at (650) 522-7205 or 
via email at LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Laura Richstone 
Associate Planner  
 
cc: 
File 
 
Applicant (George Miers, Swatt Miers Architects gmiers@swattmiers.com)   
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
                                            330 West 20th Avenue 
 
                                             San Mateo, CA 94403
 
                        www.cityofsanmateo.org 
29 of 45

--- page 30 ---
Page 2 of 9 
 
PA-2021-062, 2164 Ave., Pre App  
PRE-APPLICATION COMMENTS  
October 28, 2021 
 
The following list includes comments identified by staff during the review of the formal pre-
application. This information has been divided into division and department issues for your 
convenience. Any questions should be directed to the department contact person requesting 
the information. To resubmit the application online, please upload materials to the Online 
Permit Center (www.cityofsanmateo.org/onlinepermitcenter) and use the How-To Guide for 
resubmittals. 
 
 
Planning Comments:  
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
ZONING DESIGNATINON. Revise the indication of the zoning district on 
the cover sheet to “C4-1”. 
___________      2. 
PROPERTY LINES. As noted in the Public Works comments below, please 
verify the front property line. Please adjust the site plan as necessary. 
___________      3. 
SITE PLAN. Include a site plan noting all existing structures and 
landscaping. Please note which items are to remain and to be 
demolished. 
___________      4. 
FENCE. Please provide a fence elevation for the proposed entry fence 
and gate that illustrates compliance with fence height limitations near 
driveway intersections per SMMC Section 27.84.010(b)(2). 
___________      5. 
PARKING LOT.  Please show a backup/turnaround area in conformance 
with SMMC Section 27.64.130 and dimension the length and width of 
the parking spaces provided in conformance with City parking standards 
as outlined in the Public Works comments below.  Please note that 
compliance with Building and Public Work comments related to 
accessible path of travel, backup area, and conformance with the master 
pedestrian and bicycle plans may require a reconfiguration of the 
parking lot.   
___________      6. 
RESUBMITTED PLANS. Note that a complete set of plans will be required 
upon resubmittal.  Please provide one (1) full sized set of plans 
(preferred no larger than 24” by 36”), one (1) set of half size plans (11” x 
17”) and one (1) set of 8.5” x 11” plans.   
 
Formal Planning Application 
30 of 45

--- page 31 ---
Page 3 of 9 
 
Below is a list of initial high-level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      1. 
FORMAL APPLICATION.  The Formal Planning Application submittal shall 
include all applicable items listed in the Planning Application Guide. 
Anticipated entitlements include a Special Use Permit (SUP) and Site Plan 
and Architectural Review (SPAR) subject to the approval by the Planning 
Commission. 
___________      2. 
TECHNICAL STUDIES. Staff will also conduct various technical studies such 
as Transportation, Noise, Air Quality, and Design Review as part of the 
Formal Planning Application. These studies are typically prepared by City 
consultants and funded by the applicant. 
___________      3. 
PUBLIC ART.  Note that all commercial development projects with a 
building permit valuation of $3 million or more shall provide City 
approved public art on site or be subject to in-lieu fee as specified in 
SMMC Section 23.60 . 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Laura 
Richstone, Associate Planner at (650) 522-7205 or via e-mail at LRichstone@cityofsanmateo.org  
Building Comments:  
 
 
Please note the review of the planning application is a cursory review only.  The applicable 
edition of codes and regulations of Title 24 of the California Codes and Regulations for 
building permit application shall be based on the FILING DATE OF THE BUILDING PERMIT 
APPLICATION per the California Building Standards Commission. 
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
Review based on submittal of 09/29/2021; 
 
___________      1. 
CODES AND REGULATIONS.  Please specify the applicable codes and 
regulations governing the design and construction for the proposed 
scope of work on the plans for review. 
___________      2. 
BUILDING DATA.  For the assembly occupancy, please specify the sub-
occupancy group for the indoor tennis court on the plans for review. 
___________      3. 
MEANS OF EGRESS:  Please provide the analysis for the means of egress 
on the plans for the following for review: 
a. The number of occupants from each space and each floor; 
b. The number of required exits (or exit access to exits) from each space 
on each floor; 
31 of 45

--- page 32 ---
Page 4 of 9 
 
___________      4. 
PLUMBING FIXTURES.  Please provide calculations for determining the 
number of plumbing fixtures based on the occupant loads per Table 
422.1 of the CPC on the plans for review. 
___________      5. 
ACCESSIBILITY.  Please specify the following:  
a. The accessible route from the site arrival points, including the public 
way, to the accessible entrance and exits of the building on the plans 
for review; 
b. The circulation path from the accessible facilities, such as the parking 
stalls, to the accessible entrance of the building on the plans for 
review; and 
c. The accessible vertical access to the second floor on the plans for 
review, etc. 
Please note additional comment may be added to those above depending upon the 
completeness of the subsequent submittals.  Additionally, if the above comments are to be 
addressed during the formal application, please state such intent on the plans/response letter 
for review. 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      1. 
No further comments at this time. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Isaac 
Hau, S.E., Plan Check Engineer, at (650) 522-7185 or via e-mail at hau@cityofsanmateo.org 
Fire Comments: 
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
FLOOR PLANS.  Please provide more detailed floor plans. Show 
mechanical, electrical and fire control rooms.  
___________      2. 
OCCUPANCY LOADS.  Please provide exiting diagrams and proposed 
occupancy loads. 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high-level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
32 of 45

--- page 33 ---
Page 5 of 9 
 
___________      1. 
FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM.  This project will require an NFPA 13 Fire 
Sprinkler system. Please add this note to the cover sheet. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Melinda 
Martin, Fire Inspector at (650) 522-7940 or via e-mail at mmartin@smcfire.org. 
 
Public Works Engineering Comments: 
 
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
EASEMENTS.  Show all easements on the plans as specified in the parcel’s 
Title Report.  Verify no conflicts with easements. 
___________      2. 
PEDESTRIAN MASTER PLAN.  Show compliance with the Pedestrian 
Master Plan: A.8 Retail/Commercial Type C New Development.  Replace 
driveway approach such that the sidewalk is accessible. 
___________      3. 
LOT DIMENSIONS.  On Sheet 3, provide lot dimensions per Record Maps. 
___________      4. 
BACK OF CURB DIMENSIONS.  On Sheet 3, dimension the distance from 
the face of curb of the public sidewalk to the front property line.  Based 
on our records, the property line may be further behind the back of 
sidewalk.  Make all adjustments as necessary. 
___________      5. 
DRIVEWAY SIGHT TRIANGLES.  On Sheet 3, per Municipal Code 
27.84.010(b)(2), the gate and landscaping shall be less than 3’ within the 
10-foot sight triangles.  Show the 10-foot sight triangles and compliance 
with maximum heights. 
___________      6. 
PARKING CIRCULATION AND STALLS.  Dimension parking stalls per 
Parking Standard Drawing 3-1-190 and 3-1-191.  Dimension required 3’ 
buffer per Parking Standard Drawing 3-1-192. Accessible and EV stalls 
shall meet Building Code Standards.  For the stalls closest to Palm 
Avenue, per Municipal Code 27.64.125(e) & 27.64.130, circulation 
requiring use of the street or public right-of-way is prohibited, back out in 
the public right-of-way is prohibited. 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      7. 
BICYCLE MASTER PLAN.  Site plan shall not preclude the build out of 
improvements identified in the Bicycle Master Plan. 
33 of 45

--- page 34 ---
Page 6 of 9 
 
___________      8. 
CIVIL PLANS – Please provide civil plans to include Utility Plans, Grading & 
Drainage Plans, and Off-Site Improvements Plans. 
___________      9. 
UTILITY VAULTS.  All project related utility vaults shall be within private 
property and not the Public Right-of-Way. 
___________      10. SEWER ANALYSIS AND CALCULATIONS.  Applicant shall submit a Sewer 
Analysis and Calculations indicating flows into the City Sewer Main.  Main 
may need to be upsized based on the Sewer Analysis.  
___________      11. SEWER LATERAL CONNECTIONS.  Applicant shall submit Civil Drawings 
that verify sewer lateral connections are at an acceptable grade into the 
Sewer Main. Rim elevation at the last cleanout shall be 1’ higher than the 
rim elevation of the City Sewer Manhole or backflow prevention shall be 
provided. Refer to MC 7.38.095. 
___________      12. STORM CULVERT.  Storm map indicates a shallow City Storm Culvert on 
Palm Avenue adjacent to the site.  Applicant shall field verify location 
prior to any off-site improvements. 
___________      13. DRAINAGE CALCULATIONS.  Applicant shall submit Drainage 
Calculations/a Hydrology report.  The preliminary Hydrology report shall 
demonstrate no increase on the flow (10-year storm, 6 hour duration at 
90% capacity, with the City’s rainfall intensity curve) and show a 10-year 
flow HGL within the City pipe and 100-year flow below the street curb 
elevation. 
___________      14. GRADING AND DRAINAGE.  Project to show TC (top of curb) elevations at 
all BC (back of curve), EC (end of curve) and angle points within the 
proposed site area, show direction of flow, and provide proposed 
structures rim and invert elevation information, and show overland 
release.  
___________      15. C.3/C.6 CHECKLIST  Applicant shall provide San Mateo Countywide C3 and 
C6 checklist to verify if project is C3 regulated. Project to strive to provide 
100% LID treatment. If C3 regulated, plans to clearly show how 
stormwater runoff from roof drains, area drains, and site flow will be 
captured, treated within their respective DMA, and discharged to the City 
Main. All storm runoff must be treated per section C3 of the Municipal 
Regional Permit. Plans need to show all storm drain infrastructures, 
including but not limited to piping, drains, catch-basins, manholes, 
pumping systems and dissipators. 
___________      16. GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE.  In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.39, applicant to install green infrastructure (GI) improvements 
to the maximum extent possible. Green infrastructure to be maintained 
by the private property owner.  The improvements shall be in accordance 
with the guidance and specifications provided by San Mateo Countywide 
34 of 45

--- page 35 ---
Page 7 of 9 
 
Water Pollution Prevention Program or City of San Mateo GI Plan design 
and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or 
designee.  
___________      17. TRASH CAPTURE.  Trash capture devices are required on site consistent 
with the State Water Resources Control Board definition of Full Capture 
System. Provide trash capture. (Municipal Code 7.39.210). 
___________      18. PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS.  A photometric analysis per City Standards is 
required during the Formal Planning Application. 
___________      19. WATER BACKFLOW DEVICES.  Show the location of water backflow 
devices (if required). Backflow devices should be located as close as 
possible to the point of connection/water meter. Provide proof of 
correspondence with California Water Service for the backflow device 
locations. 
___________      20. TRASH AND RECYCLING.  Show trash and recycling pick-up logistics and 
staging details together with circulation of ingress/egress into the site.  
___________      21. IMPACT FEES.  This project will require the payment of several impact 
fees, including but not limited to:  Wastewater Treatment Expansions 
Fee, Transportation Improvement Fee, Sanitary Sewer Connection Fee, 
and South Trunk Sewer Improvement Fee. Fees are subject to change 
based on Fiscal Year. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the Public Works comments, please contact Karen 
Magallanes, at (650) 522-7576 or via e-mail at kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org. 
 
Public Works Trash/Recycling Comments: 
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
Note solid waste service location. 
___________      2. 
Note to scale solid waste collection container storage area 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      3. 
A letter may be required from Recology, the City’s franchise hauler 
stating they can safely service the location. 
35 of 45

--- page 36 ---
Page 8 of 9 
 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above, please contact Siliva 
Pa’uli, Solid Waste/Recycling Programs Coordinator, at (650) 522-7297 or via e-mail at 
spauli@cityofsanmateo.org.  
Police Department Comments: 
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION.  The project description is unclear with respect to 
who will be using the new facility, mentioning that the facility will be 
private but benefit the “tennis community.”  Will this be a private facility 
for the owner and guests only, or a facility intended to be available to the 
public? 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      2. 
Formal planning application plans must demonstrate compliance with the 
City’s Security Ordinance. 
If you have any questions regarding any of the comments listed above or the City’s Building 
Security Code requirements, please contact Sergeant Brendan Bartholomew, Police 
Department at (650) 522-7522 x 5111 or via email at bbartholomew@cityofsanmateo.org. 
 
 Development Review Arborist Comments:  
 
Pre-Application- Required for Planning Commission Study Session 
 
___________      1. 
No information or corrections are required at this time. 
Formal Planning Application 
Below is a list of initial high level observations of the plans with respect to specific Code 
requirements and/or design issues. Please note this is a short list of major issues and additional 
comments and/or Code requirements will be provided with the formal application. 
___________      2. 
TREE INFORMATION.  This project may be subject to San Mateo 
Municipal Code 27.71 and  13.40 , please provide the following 
information: 
i. 
Disclose if there are trees on-site and street trees in the right of way 
and what are the plans associated with those trees 
36 of 45

--- page 37 ---
Page 9 of 9 
 
ii. 
Disclose if there are *Protected trees on the adjacent properties 
located within 30 ft from the project. 
___________      3. 
INFORMATIONAL ONLY.  Protected trees are all Street trees, Trees with a 
trunk diameter of 15 inches or more and, Oak trees with a trunk diameter 
of 10 inches or more. Trunk diameter shall be measured at 54 inches 
above natural  grade.   
https://sanmateo.ca.us.open.law/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/13.40 .  
A Tree Protection Plan (TPP) is required whenever any Construction 
Activity is to be performed within a radius measured from the trunk 
equal to ten times the diameter of the tree trunk measured at 54" above 
grade for any Protected Tree(s). This includes trees on the subject 
property, neighboring properties, and the public right-of-way. The TPP 
shall be prepared by an ISA Certified Arborist (Project Arborist) who 
provides consulting services and is familiar with the Municipal Code and 
the industry best practices. Visit the Municipal Code and, Tree Protection 
Specifications for detailed information 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85506/Protect
ed-Trees-Administrative-Guidelines. 
 
If you have any questions regarding any of these comments, please contact Andres Solis, 
Development Review Arborist, at asolismolina@cityofsanmateo.org. Or at 6505227191. 
 
37 of 45

--- page 38 ---
Le Court Rouge - Enlarged Partial Ground Floor Plan - A.6 Sidewalk Standard
site
enclosed space
2164 Palm Ave, San Mateo CA
scale: 1/8"=1'-0"
Swatt | Miers Architects
11/30/21
Page 3.1
38 of 45

--- page 39 ---
3/11/22, 4:27 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQAQAN%2B%2FaU6kpbxIpM6rzw…
1/1
Project at 2164 palm
Ryan Baux 
Fri 3/11/2022 11:55 AM
To:  Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Good morning
I watch the zoom meeting about the project at 2164 Palm Ave. and had some questions and concerns
about tennis court. Few he doesn’t seem to have parking for all the people that will be there the street
already has a terrible street parking problem.. two he’s done nothing with the lot it looks horrible for the
adjacent businesses there is garbage  and oil cans in the knee high weeds out front.. also by the looks of
his plans it sure seems like that’s not going to be a personal used place looks more like a
training/business place kind of like the place that his architect designed in Burlingame.. not seeing
growth is not OK just seems like he’s not being forthcoming with what actually going to happen within
that facility.. thanks for your time
Ryan
39 of 45

--- page 40 ---
Monday, September 20, 2021 at 09:50:27 Paciﬁc Daylight Time
Nick Courtot
Page 1 of 1
Subject: Le Court Rouge
Date:
Monday, September 20, 2021 at 9:41:27 AM Paciﬁc Daylight Time
From:
Palm Ave Motors
To:
Good Morning Nick,
Thanks for introducing yourself and showing us you plans for the new tennis
courts.
We looked over your plans; they look good to us. Welcome to the neighborhood!
Cynthia Slaughter (CFO), Jeff Roeder (Manager)
Palm Ave Motors, Inc.
2201 Palm Ave
San Mateo, Ca 94403
40 of 45

--- page 41 ---
Monday, September 27, 2021 at 16:04:47 Paciﬁc Daylight Time
Nick Courtot
Page 1 of 1
Subject: nice plans
Date:
Sunday, September 26, 2021 at 8:27:28 PM Paciﬁc Daylight Time
From:
To:
Hi Nick,
Thanks for sharing your plans with us. It looks very nice.
Very excited to see that the neighborhood will look better and have
positive activities that will attract good clientele for us.
Best,
Ann Ossenberg
Ma Puche LLC
2191 So El Camino 
41 of 45

--- page 42 ---
Monday, September 20, 2021 at 09:52:01 Paciﬁc Daylight Time
Nick Courtot
Page 1 of 1
Subject: Re: 2164 Palm Ave – Le Court Rouge
Date:
Friday, September 17, 2021 at 6:24:53 PM Paciﬁc Daylight Time
From:
Isaac Lee
To:
Le'Nick Chique
This looks great. It will be a great addition to the neighborhood. Can't wait till you get it up. 
On Fri, Sep 17, 2021 at 3:52 PM Le'Nick Chique 
> wrote:
Hi Issac, 
Nick Courtot here. It was great talking to you yesterday. Attached are the preliminary plans I
will be submitting to the city next week. 
This building will be a great addition to the neighborhood, and as you can see from the plans, I
want to make it a nice as possible. If you have any questions, please let me know. 
If you're ok in principle, would you mind shooting me an email saying that you're ok with it? My
architect says the town officials will be much more amenable to my project if I get letters of
support from my neighbors. 
I would greatly appreciate it if you could send me an email conﬁrming your support for my
project, including your name, business name, and property address. 
Thanks!
Nick 
-- 
Isaac Lee
Discount Signs
1317 N Carolan Ave. 
Burlingame CA 94010
Discountsignssf.com
New Owner at 2180 Palm Ave
42 of 45

--- page 43 ---
To Whom It May Concern,
I’d like to formally express my support for Nick’s proposed plan on 2164 Palm Avenue. We’ve
reviewed the project plans and we welcome Nick to the neighborhood. We look forward to
seeing his project come to fruition.
Feel free to call or email me if you have any questions or concerns.
Best Regards,
Juan Contreras
Lawson’s Auto & Truck Repair
2169 Palm Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
43 of 45

--- page 44 ---
3/18/22, 10:35 AM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQAQAP1cg54qW3ZLh1NNtpplmKk…
1/1
PA 2021 062/2164 Palm
Thu 3/17/2022 9:37 AM
To:  Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
On these plans looks like not enough parking, Is going to be  for personal use only
44 of 45

--- page 45 ---
3/11/22, 4:27 PM
Mail - Laura Richstone - Outlook
https://outlook.office365.com/mail/inbox/id/AAQkADdjOTQ3YTBmLTY0MjEtNDdkZS1hNWJlLTdmOWZiYzcyMjFlMQAQAN%2B%2FaU6kpbxIpM6rzw…
1/1
Project at 2164 palm
Ryan Baux 
Fri 3/11/2022 11:55 AM
To:  Laura Richstone <lrichstone@cityofsanmateo.org>
Good morning
I watch the zoom meeting about the project at 2164 Palm Ave. and had some questions and concerns
about tennis court. Few he doesn’t seem to have parking for all the people that will be there the street
already has a terrible street parking problem.. two he’s done nothing with the lot it looks horrible for the
adjacent businesses there is garbage  and oil cans in the knee high weeds out front.. also by the looks of
his plans it sure seems like that’s not going to be a personal used place looks more like a
training/business place kind of like the place that his architect designed in Burlingame.. not seeing
growth is not OK just seems like he’s not being forthcoming with what actually going to happen within
that facility.. thanks for your time
Ryan
45 of 45