source: packet.pdf
sha256: b4884ce77ca04c5349d591412cf46f6e38514059da47732e7bce91d9aeec4c13
pages: 9
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
January 12, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: January 12, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 826 3277 6292
Passcode: 335667
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of December 8, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
1 of 9

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 9

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 21-5542
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of December 8, 2021.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the December 8, 2021 meeting
3 of 9

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
December 8, 2021 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / 
AB361 (2021) in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the 
Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins, Narita, Reyes, and Rowinski.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to approve the minutes of October13, 2021.  Motion passed 5-0 
 
Moved:    Robbins, Seconded:  Rowinski 
Ayes:       5 - Robbins, Narita, Rowinski, Reyes, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Rick Hedges asked about status of work on San Mateo Creek wall and reiterated that if not completed by the 
time Foster City has completed the levee work, it will send many homes back in the flood zone. (Director Mitch 
responded that work will start in Spring 2022.) 
 
Robert Whitehair spoke on the opportunity for San Mateo residents to think about reducing greenhouse gases. 
More information can be found at https://fossilfreebuildings.org, and by clicking Electric Home Ambassador 
folks are able to access this free service to have questions answered, get ideas, and receive suggestions on 
making the switch from natural gas to electricity.  Anything the City and the Commission can do to get the word 
out is greatly appreciated.  
 
Manolete inquired about what can be done to restrict water usage for San Mateo residents.  Instead of being 
charged for excessive usage, would it be possible to restrict water usage based on household occupancy. (Chair 
Loraine suggested that the speaker reach out to publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org) 
 
Raayan commented on the Electric Vehicle (EV) program from PenClean Energy and the success in replacing 
vehicle trips and fossil fuel by using EV trips. He encouraged the Commission to learn more about it and 
4 of 9

--- page 5 ---
supplement a similar program in San Mateo.  Question was also raised about the status of the Bay Trail 
construction and whether alternative routes were being considered. 
 
Carol Steinfeld spoke on the disparity of water usage between cities. 
  
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. Public Works Year in Review, 2021 – Update. 
Matt Zucca and Matt Fabry, Deputy Directors, and Azalea Mitch, Director, provided a presentation to the 
Commission to receive an informational update from the Public Works Department regarding work performed 
during calendar year 2021.  
 
Public Comment.  No speakers   
 
No motion needed for this informational update but some comments from Commission included:  
• When the Public Works Year in Review item is brought back next year include a measurement to assess 
what was done the prior year 
• Would like an update on the Traffic Action Plan after staff re-analyzes the data and receives direction 
from Council  
• Look at ways to collect demographics from residents that call or email the public works customer support 
line.  Look into similar program from Seattle on their LED streetlights.  Resources include: City of 
Seattle LED streetlight case study – How Cities are Ending Unintentional Racial Discrimination; GARE 
Equity Tools – https://www.racialequityalliance.org/tools-resources/; Urban Sustainability Directors 
Network (Building Electrification) – https://www.usdn.org/projects/equity-in-buildings-framework.html 
• Bring plan to Commission on moving away from Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and transitioning to 
electric vehicles  
• Staff will bring the Peninsula Interchange project to the Commission when environmental document is 
available 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
• Director Mitch reminded the Commission that Blue Sky is January 29. Also check out all the December 
events sponsored by Parks & Recreation. 
• Chair Loraine spoke on the North Central Bike Project;  community survey is open and citizens can 
assess some of the parking options; Public Works will be facilitating the parking issues; there is an in-
person display at the King Center until January 7; there are pop-ups in the community on this topic; the 
public can access information at www.cityofsanmateo/northcentralbikelanes; this item will be presented 
to the Commission in early 2022. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn: 9:15 pm 
 
5 of 9

--- page 6 ---
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
6 of 9

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5629
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
January 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts.
Infrastructure Projects
Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety Project: This project aims to design pedestrian safety improvements at the 
entrances and exits of Central Parking Garage, Main Street Parking Garage, and the 2nd and El Camino Real Parking 
Garage. The following is an update on this effort. 

Staff and the consultant team are completing the final design drawings and specifications. The final design is 
expected to be complete in early 2022.
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff applied for the California Transportation Commission (CTC) Active 
Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 call for projects for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle project. This 
project will implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard as planned in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with a high level of traffic stress 
and history of collisions and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from Delaware Street. 
Further, this project improves connectivity with the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from the north and south. 
The following is an update on this effort.

Staff requested an allocation from the California Transportation Commission (CTC) for the Project 
Approval/Environmental Document (PA/ED) phase of the project. The CTC approved the allocation request at their 
December meeting. 
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds in the San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian 
and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate design options for the Class IV separated bike lane implementation 
identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian connectivity across the 
intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff has drafted the request for proposals (RFP) for consultant services for this effort and expects to release the 
RFP in January 2022.
7 of 9

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
North Central Bike Lanes Project: The City receives federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) for the CDBG program and allocates the funds based on community priorities. The projects identified 
for implementation with these funds are the projects identified as the 2nd and 4th highest priority projects in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan, including a bicycle boulevard and bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street and bicycle lanes on Poplar and 
Indian Avenues to connect to the recently completed North San Mateo Drive project. The following is an update on this 
effort.

Staff brought the construction agreement to City Council on October 4. City Council awarded the agreement, and 
the contractor was authorized to begin work on specific elements of the scope including concrete restoration and 
curb ramps. Staff committed to completing additional community engagement, data collection, and evaluation of 
parking supply options. Results will be brought to the Commission and City Council in February to request final 
feedback on implementation of the bicycle improvements.

Staff identified parking supply options to introduce to the community and gauge feedback on the perceived 
efficacy of the options.
o
Extended Red Curbs: New red curbs painted on both sides of North Central driveways to stop vehicles 
from blocking driveways. City would provide curb painting service to residents at no cost.
o
Driveway Parking: North Central residents who live in single-family homes or duplexes could park their 
vehicles in front of their own driveway entrance.
o
Parking Lot Sharing: City would work with North Central schools, businesses, and developers to allow for 
the overnight use of existing private parking lots by North Central residents. The Parking Lot Sharing 
program would be free and may or may not require proof of residency.
o
North Central Residential Parking Permit Program: Create a parking permit program where only North 
Central residents could park in the neighborhood for extended periods (e.g., more than 2 hours). The 
parking permit program could be effective either in the daytime only (e.g., 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.) or all day 
(including overnight), and the details would be determined based on neighborhood input. Parking on the 
street would require a permit and registration with the City, including proof of residency (e.g., utility bill). 
Each licensed driver would be eligible for one permit. At this time, there is no cost for residential parking 
permits in the City.

Staff launched a community engagement effort in the North Central neighborhood, including postcards, a static 
project display and in-person poll option at the MLK Jr. Center, an online survey, and in-person pop-up 
engagement events to share information about the project and parking supply options for feedback.

Parking data collection for a larger geographic area was initiated. Staff will receive data later in January and 
analyze the findings for the February Commission and Council meetings.

Staff will present findings from the community engagement process, data collection effort, and parking supply 
options to the Commission at the February 9, 2022 meeting, and the City Council on February 22, 2022. 
Pavement Management Program Integration: Staff continues to integrate implementation of bicycle facilities with 
scheduled pavement management projects where funding for design and construction is available. The following is an 
update on this effort.

Smooth Streets Phase 3: As part of this pavement management project, staff is working on design for the planned 
bicycle boulevard on Sunnybrae Boulevard. The facility is planned from S. Delaware Street to S. Amphlett 
Boulevard, and includes bicycle and pedestrian safety elements. The project is estimated to begin construction in 
Summer 2022.

Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 1): This pavement management project includes possible bicycle 
facility implementation on S. B Street from 5th to 9th Avenue (Class II buffered bike lane), S. Humboldt Street from 
5th to 9th Avenue (Class II Bike Lane), and a bicycle boulevard on 5th Avenue. Staff is working on feasibility of design 
for these facilities. 

Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3-B (Phase 2): This project includes design and implementation of Class II 
buffered and standard bicycle lanes on Pacific Boulevard from Delaware Street to the City limit.
8 of 9

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Projects
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan: The City was awarded Transportation Development Act (TDA) 
Article 3 funds for this project, which will evaluate the full pedestrian path of travel to the City’s high-quality transit stops. 
The Plan will identify necessary improvements to create a safe and comfortable pedestrian realm within one-half mile of 
those locations. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff and the consultant team completed community outreach on October 31, 2021. The community engagement 
included pop-up events, focus group discussions, sidewalk decals, an interactive online map, and an online survey.

The project team is currently analyzing findings from outreach and existing conditions analysis to identify potential 
priority areas with pedestrian issues. Concurrently, staff and the consultant team are developing draft metrics for 
prioritizing the proposed projects to address these identified concerns.

Staff will be presenting an update on this project to the Commission in February, including the existing conditions 
analysis and draft metrics for review and comment.
Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager’s 
Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San Mateo 
Complete Streets Plan. This project will bring together the City’s various active transportation plans and Green 
Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. 
Staff was notified in June 2021 that the project was selected for full funding. The following is an update on this effort.

Caltrans is continuing their effort in the contracting phase of the project, and staff is beginning efforts to develop 
the draft RFP for consultant services. When the Notice to Proceed is issued by Caltrans, staff will release the RFP 
shortly thereafter.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None.
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
9 of 9