source: packet.pdf
sha256: dd8d58bf8cd1ef3486b2800e8a9530e05b1aa7c905bb3241ddd8d031422df4f9
pages: 585
ocr_pages: 97
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
November 18, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chambers
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
Rob Newsom Jr., Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Amourence Lee
Adam Loraine
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: November 18, 2024
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 830 3787 2081      Passcode: 831846
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
“I Voted” Sticker Design Competition Winners – Recognition
2.
Mayor’s Quarterly Hero Award – Recognition
3.
Small Business Saturday – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
4.
Gardening Waste — Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance prohibiting gardening waste from being deposited into the public right of way.
CEQA: This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
5.
Edward Byrne 2024 Justice Assistance Grant Program — Application
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Justice, Bureau
of Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for the 2024 local
1 of 585

--- page 2 ---
solicitation in the amount of $18,837; and if awarded, appropriate funds to the Police Grants Budget Program
and authorize the Chief of Police to execute all required documents.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
6.
Police Department Patrol Vehicle — Purchase Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with Nicholas K
Corporation DBA the Ford Store San Leandro for the purchase of seven (7) new 2025 Ford Police Interceptor
Utility vehicles, for a total purchase amount of $413,061.18; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
$45,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: Approval of this purchase is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there
is no possibility that the purchase of Police Department patrol vehicles will have a significant effect on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
7.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Transfer Pump Project — Agreement
Approve an agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. for professional design services for the Wastewater Treatment
Plant Transfer Pump Project in the amount of $19,665; establish a contingency reserve of $2,000; and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and approve any
amendments within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The proposed action is exempt from environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA), since entering on-call professional services agreements is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect significant physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
8.
Art in Public Places Annual Report, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of Committee Members
– Approval
Approve the Art in Public Places Annual Reports for 2023 and 2024; renew the Civic Arts Committee for two
years; and reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members.
CEQA: The approval of the report, renewal of the committee, or reappointment of committee members are not
projects pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), because they are organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
9.
Public Safety Data Sharing — Memorandum of Understanding
Approve the Memorandum of Understanding with San Mateo County law enforcement agencies to provide a
standardized approach and method of collection and sharing information within their electronic data systems;
and authorize Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
10.
1900 O’Farrell Street Office Space Lease — Amendment
Approve the third amendment to the office lease agreement with Woodstock Development, Inc. for office space
in Suites 320 and 325 at 1900 O’Farrell Street, extending the term for an additional five years with two optional
five-year extensions at a base rent amount of $1,938,237.96 for the initial five-year term; and authorize the City
2 of 585

--- page 3 ---
Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This lease amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
11.
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Grant Program — Budget Allocation
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $293,103 of Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) grant program funds
into the fiscal year 2024-2025 operating budget.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
12.
Professional Labor Relation Service — Agreement
Approve a three-year agreement with IEDA for professional labor relation services in the amount of $92,466 in
year one, $96,624 in year two and $100,269 in year three for a cumulative total amount of $289,359.00.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
13.
Parking Enforcement Services - Amendment 
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $55,000 to the Police Department’s 2024-25 operating budget; Approve
Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with LAZ Parking for Citywide parking enforcement services in the amount
of $1,464,506 for a new agreement total of an amount not to exceed $6,271,726; and authorize the Chief of
Police to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
14.
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
Receive a report on contingency fund expenditures for City contracts for the period from August 1, 2017, through
June 30, 2024.
CEQA: This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
3 of 585

--- page 4 ---
15.
SB 1383 Recovered Organics Waste Procurement Services — Agreements and Amendment
Approve agreements with the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties for SB 1383
recovered organics procurement services, each for one year at $100,000, with three optional one-year extensions
totaling up to $400,000 per agreement. Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with the Tuolumne County
Resource Conservation District, increasing the total amount to $103,600, with three optional one-year extensions
totaling up to $403,600. Authorize the City Manager to execute the agreements and amendment in substantially
the form presented.
CEQA: Approving agreements with the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties, and
an amendment to the City’s agreement with the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District to assist the
City in procuring SB 1383 compliant compost to meet the City’s annual compost procurement target is not a
project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
16.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation — Agreement
Award a professional consulting services agreement with Brown and Caldwell for the Wastewater Treatment
Plant Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation in an amount not to exceed $1,249,180; establish a contingency reserve of
$426,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and execute any necessary amendments within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” in that it consists of the
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private
structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of
existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
17.
Public Works EV Street Sweeper — Purchase
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a purchase contract with Terry
Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of one new EV Street Sweeper in the amount of $884,403.88; establish a
contingency reserve in the amount of $50,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase
contract in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This purchase is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that the purchase and
deployment of EV Street Sweepers will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code
Section 21065.)
18.
Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant — Grant Acceptance and Budget Appropriation​
Adopt a Resolution to accept and appropriate City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County’s
Transportation Fund for Clean Air (TFCA) Grant funding in the amount of $254,293.33 to the San Mateo EV Street
Sweeper Replacement Project; approve the 2024-2025 TFCA Funding Agreement with the City/County
Association of Governments; and authorize the City Manager to execute all required grant documents in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: The acceptance of grant funds, and appropriation of the grant funds to the Solid Waste Fund is not a
project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government fiscal activity that does not involve any commitment
to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
4 of 585

--- page 5 ---
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
19.
​Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right of Way Update​ - Ordinance Introduction and Policy
Approval
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 17.10 "Wireless Communications
Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way;" and adopt a Resolution approving a City Council Policy establishing
procedural and substantive rules for small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way.
CEQA: This Ordinance introduction and City Policy adoption by Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA,
because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes
in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)). In addition, small cell facilities are categorically
exempt from CEQA as they ether are (1) minor alterations of existing facilities, (2) replacements of existing
structures where the new structure will be located in the same site and have substantially the same purpose, or
(3) construction and location of new small facilities or structures. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, 15302, 15303).
20.
Senior Advisory Commission – Ordinance Introduction
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 “Senior Citizens Commission” to
change its name to “Senior Advisory Commission” and make other miscellaneous revisions.
CEQA: This Ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
21.
Wet Weather Preparations - Update
Receive an update on the City’s wet weather preparations and storm response activities.
CEQA: This informational update to City Council relating to the City’s wet weather preparations and storm
response activities is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NEW BUSINESS
22.
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan - Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to: 1) increase salary ranges for City Attorney, City Manager,
Department Heads, and Deputy Directors 2) increase executive leave to 80 hours for Department Heads and 3)
adjust the deferred compensation and retirement health savings account (RHSA) language for the City Manager,
City Attorney, Department Heads and Deputy Directors.
CEQA: This plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
5 of 585

--- page 6 ---
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
6 of 585

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 24-9316
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Gardening Waste — Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance prohibiting gardening waste from being deposited into the public right of way.
BACKGROUND:
On November 4, 2024, the City Council introduced an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.32 
"Garbage" to address gardening waste deposited in the public right of way. The proposed Ordinance is attached. If 
adopted, the Ordinance will become effective 30 days after its adoption. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this ordinance adoption. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 - Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Chantal Eaton, Deputy City Clerk
ceaton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
7 of 585

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.32, Garbage, to Address Gardening Waste 
Deposited in the Public Right of Way
WHEREAS, one of the stated priorities of the City Council is to adopt an ordinance addressing gardening 
waste to as to prevent home and business flooding because of clogged storm drains or sewerage facilities; and
WHEREAS, the purpose of this ordinance is to ensure that leaves, grass, and plant clippings are not 
deposited onto the street.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 7.32.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 7.32 as follows:
7.32.070  Gardening Waste
No one shall blow, rake or cause gardening waste to be deposited into the streets of the City without 
being immediately removed.  For purposes of this section, “gardening waste” shall mean leaves, grass 
clippings, weeds, plants, tree trunks, branches, wood shavings, dirt, and other vegetative or organic 
material produced from the care and maintenance of landscaped areas, gardens, and lawns.  Provided, 
however, that this section shall not prohibit the storage of gardening waste in authorized receptacles for 
collection.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is exempt from CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that 
there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here
8 of 585

--- page 9 ---
9 of 585

--- page 10 ---
10 of 585

--- page 11 ---
11 of 585

--- page 12 ---
12 of 585

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 20-5150
File ID: 24-9137
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Edward Byrne 2024 Justice Assistance Grant Program — Application
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submittal of an application to the United States Department of Justice, Bureau of 
Justice Assistance, for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for the 2024 local solicitation in the 
amount of $18,837; and if awarded, appropriate funds to the Police Grants Budget Program and authorize the Chief of 
Police to execute all required documents.
BACKGROUND:
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program provides federal criminal justice funding to state and 
local jurisdictions to support a range of law enforcement programs. Applicants are limited to units of local government 
appearing on the 2024 JAG Allocations List. The procedure for allocating JAG funds is a formula based on population and 
crime statistics in combination with a minimum allocation to ensure each state receives an appropriate share. Sixty 
percent of funding is allocated to the states, and forty percent is allocated to local recipients. The City of San Mateo’s 2024 
allocation is $18,837.
JAG has several primary purpose areas: law enforcement; prosecution and court; prevention and education; corrections 
and community corrections; drug treatment; planning, evaluation, and technology improvement; and crime victim and 
witness protection. Within these purpose areas, funds may be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, 
strategic planning, research and evaluation, data collection, training, personnel, equipment, forensic laboratories, supplies, 
contractual support, and criminal justice information systems. 
The Police Department has proposed utilizing the funds to purchase software in support of the creation of a Real Time 
Information Center. The desired software will integrate all incoming data streams such as automated license plate readers, 
body worn cameras, fleet cameras, etc.; map it in a single location on a secure web-based mapping portal; and 
disseminate the information out to officers in real time. Use of the grant funds for this purpose is consistent with 
departmental efforts and strategic initiatives related to leveraging technology to increase safety.
BUDGET IMPACT:
If the JAG grant is awarded, Council approval is requested to appropriate $18,837 into the Police Grant (Fund 200) budget. 
The JAG grant requires no matching funds and will result in no impact to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
13 of 585

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Tricia Toomey, Business Manager
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7623
14 of 585

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPLICATION TO THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FOR THE EDWARD BYRNE 
MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024 LOCAL SOLICITATION 
TO PURCHASE SOFTWARE TO SUPPORT A REAL TIME INFORMATION CENTER
WHEREAS, the US Department of Justice (DOJ), Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
Assistance Grant (JAG) Program provides funding to state and local government to support 
projects that improve or enhance law enforcement programs; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive an allocation of $18,837 from the JAG 
program for 2024; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department has proposed to use its 2024 allocation to 
purchase software in support of the creation of a Real Time Information Center; and
WHEREAS, the grant application has been made available to the City Council and to the 
public for a period of 30 days preceding this meeting.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES
that:
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it 
will not cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 
21065.)
2.
The Chief of Police or his designee, on behalf of the City of San Mateo, is authorized to 
submit an application for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program to 
the United States Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for $18,837 to 
purchase software in support of a Real Time Information Center - O-BJA-2024-172239.
3.
The Chief of Police or his designee is authorized to accept and execute in the name of the 
City of San Mateo, the application and any documents required by the United States 
Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance, for the JAG program related to the 
acceptance of the grant funds. 
4.
The City Council authorizes, if said grant is awarded, an appropriation of $18,837 to the 
Police Grants fund. 
15 of 585

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4683
File ID: 24-9218
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Police Department Patrol Vehicle — Purchase Contract 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with Nicholas K Corporation 
DBA the Ford Store San Leandro for the purchase of seven (7) new 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles, for a total 
purchase amount of $413,061.18; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $45,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
Replacement of police vehicles is imperative to provide service to the community and safe transportation during the 
execution of police duties. The vehicle standard for most law enforcement is the Ford Police Interceptor Utility. San Mateo 
Police Department has requested the replacement of seven (7) police patrol vehicles that have exceeded their useful life. 
These police patrol vehicles are the frontline vehicles utilized for police emergency response, and as such, these units are 
the most heavily utilized and relied upon vehicles in the Police Department’s fleet. 
As part of the transition to a Green Fleet, staff continually research electrical options during the procurement process and 
aim to replace vehicles with alternative fueled vehicles when available and when it meets the needs of the department. 
Currently there are no suitable, fully electric patrol package vehicles developed by Ford, Chevy, or Dodge. A suitable 
Explorer equivalent option is anticipated to be available in a couple of years. The Police Department has deployed several 
EV units for non-emergency service and is working towards EV infrastructure improvements to support additional electric 
vehicle deployments in the future. Staff has chosen the Ford EcoBoost engine as it has proven to provide the reliability, 
fuel efficiency, and performance required for the demands of police emergency response. The Ford Hybrid engine 
platform was not selected due to significant delivery delays. The chosen EcoBoost platform offers competitive fuel 
economy, emissions reduction, and reliability, along with the necessary performance to properly equip our police patrol 
for emergency response operations. 
The timely replacement of vehicles is critical to the operations of the Police Department. With the lack of electric vehicle 
options that meet the requirements for our police fleet, the recommendation is to purchase the Ford Interceptor EcoBoost 
models now as they are available for production. It is important to note that electric vehicle options will continue to be 
evaluated, and the market availability of new models will increase in the next couple of years. The options right now, 
however, are limited to one manufacturer and in the testing phase. Also, the City’s Police Department currently operates 
Ford Interceptor EcoBoost models and are satisfied with the performance and reliability.
Staff utilized follow-on negotiated pricing through Alameda County’s contract with The San Leandro Ford Store for the 
purchase of these vehicles. Alameda County has leveraged their large purchase volume to receive triple net pricing on new 
16 of 585

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Ford products purchased through the San Leandro Ford Store. Following on Alameda County’s contract provides the City a 
significant cost savings of triple net pricing through the San Leandro Ford Store.
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing 
procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City. Here, the purchase of seven (7) new 2023 Ford Police 
Interceptor vehicles from San Leandro Ford Store is in the best interest of the City because the 2025 Ford Police 
Interceptor vehicle is the recommended replacement for existing police patrol vehicles and relying on Alameda County’s 
pre-negotiated contract ensures a competitive price for the vehicles as it allows the City to leverage agency buying power 
and realize a significant cost savings for the purchase of new Ford vehicles. 
Based on the above, staff recommends the purchase of seven (7) 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles from the 
Ford Store San Leandro for a total purchase amount of $413,061.18. A contingency reserve is being requested to address 
any price fluctuations from market instability that may occur between the time the original quote was submitted to the 
time the contract is executed. Recent findings have determined this may result in a 10 percent to 20 percent fluctuation.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding is available in the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund (Fund 810) for the replacement of these 
vehicles. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this purchase is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility 
that the purchase of Police Department patrol vehicles will have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Purchase Contract 
STAFF CONTACT
Daniel Heffelfinger, Fleet Services Supervisor
dheffelfinger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7366
Stephen Wu, Acting Facilities and Fleet Service Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7345
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director 
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7287
17 of 585

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE PURCHASE OF SEVEN (7) 2025 FORD POLICE 
INTERCEPTOR UTILITY VEHICLES WITH NICHOLAS K CORPORATION DBA THE FORD STORE SAN LEANDRO IN 
THE AMOUNT OF $413,061.18
WHEREAS, replacement of police vehicles is imperative to provide service to the community and safe 
transportation during the execution of police duties; and
WHEREAS, the vehicle standard for most law enforcement is the Ford Police Interceptor Utility; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department has requested the replacement of seven (7) police patrol 
cars that have exceeded their useful life; and
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the purchase of seven (7) new 2025 
Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the City has identified Nicholas K Corporation DBA the Ford Store San Leandro (Ford Store 
San Leandro) has an available supply of 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the County of Alameda has negotiated terms with the Ford Store San Leandro for the supply 
of 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles, which the City may rely on; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an 
alternative purchasing procedure when it finds doing so is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends approval of the purchase of seven (7) new 
2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles from The Ford Store San Leandro, because it is in the best interest 
of the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The purchase of seven (7) new 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles is not a project subject 
to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the purchase of Police 
Department patrol vehicles will have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15061(b)(3).)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of for the purchase of seven 
(7) new 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles based on pricing from the County of Alameda’s 
contract with The Ford Store San Leandro is in the City’s best interest for these reasons:
a.
The Ford Explorer Police Utility is the vehicle standard for most law enforcement agencies;
b.
The 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicle is the desired vehicle replacement for the 
San Mateo Police Department; and
c.
Reliance on the County of Alameda’s contract with The Ford Store San Leandro offers a 
competitive price and significant cost savings for the City.
3.
The purchase seven (7) new 2025 Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicles for a total contract of 
$413,061.18, with a contingency reserve in the amount of $45,000, is approved.
18 of 585

--- page 19 ---
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to issue change orders within the contingency amount and 
execute the purchase contract in substantially the form presented.
19 of 585

--- page 20 ---
- 1 -
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR PURCHASE OF SEVEN (7) POLICE PATROL CARS
FROM NICHOLAS K CORPORATION DBA THE FORD STORE SAN LEANDRO
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and Nicholas K Corporation DBA The Ford Store San Leandro, a Corporation 
(“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase certain Police Patrol Cars hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these Police Patrol Cars by reason of its 
qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms and 
in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
20 of 585

--- page 21 ---
- 2 -
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. City of San Mateo Corporation Yard 1961 Pacific Blvd. San Mateo Ca. 
94403.  Transportation charges shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. The VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive 
expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
21 of 585

--- page 22 ---
- 3 -
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
22 of 585

--- page 23 ---
- 4 -
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
23 of 585

--- page 24 ---
- 5 -
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
VENDOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon 
VENDOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, and 
travel at VENDOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Daniel Heffelfinger,
Fleet Services Supervisor
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo Ca. 94403
To VENDOR:
Nicholas K Corporation DBA The Ford 
Store San Leandro
Attn: Ming Yeung
1111 Marina Blvd.
San Leandro Ca. 94577
24 of 585

--- page 25 ---
- 6 -
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
25 of 585

--- page 26 ---
- 7 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Nicholas K Corporation DBA The Ford Store San 
Leandro have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Ming Yeung
Commercial Account Manager 
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
26 of 585

--- page 27 ---
EXHIBIT A

The Ford Store San Leandro

1111 Marina Bhd.
San Leandro, CA 4577
(510) 352-2000

2025 FORD EBA PD BOO) BLE

2025 Police interceptor EcoBoost Black
Pricing Piggyback Alameda County GSA Contract? 9071979
T Unis @ S59008. 74 = $413061.18 Total

Documentary Fee:

State & Local Taxes: San Mateo 9.625%
Total canes and Fase: EVR / Tine Fee
Total Cash Price:

Total Trade Payot
Delivered Price:

(Gech Down Payrnent + Deposits

27 of 585


--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 24-9193
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Transfer Pump Project — Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. for professional design services for the Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Transfer Pump Project in the amount of $19,665; establish a contingency reserve of $2,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and approve any amendments within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order requiring improvements to its 
sewer collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows and 
unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The Clean Water Program 
(CWP) includes several capital improvements that are currently under construction and intended to comply with the Cease 
and Desist Order.
As part of the CWP, the City has identified capital improvements needed to maintain and/or improve WWTP reliability, 
performance, and safety (Projects). The City has executed a number of on-call professional services agreements to support 
the Projects as well as maintenance and improvement projects implemented through the WWTP’s Operations and 
Maintenance groups. On-call professional services include, but are not limited to, alternatives analyses and engineering 
studies, design services, bid period services, engineering services during construction, and operational support. 
In September 2017, HDR Engineering, Inc. (HDR) was awarded a $300,000 on-call agreement to provide the above services 
for designing rehabilitations of the existing WWTP. In October 2019, City Council approved an amendment to extend the 
agreement an additional two years through December 2021. In November 2021, City Council approved a second 
amendment to extend the agreement an additional two years through December 2023.
As part of HDR’s agreement, HDR designed the WWTP Transfer Pump Project. In August 2023, at the conclusion of the first 
construction contract bidding process for the Transfer Pump Project, the City opted to reject bids due to a single high 
bidder. HDR revised the contract documents, and the project was readvertised to obtain construction bids for a second 
time, which resulted in Council awarding the construction contract in November 2023. The additional cost for HDR to re-
package the contract documents was inadvertently not paid prior to HDR’s on-call agreement expiring in December 2023.  
Since HDR’s on-call agreement expired at the end of 2023, for HDR to provide engineering services during construction for 
the remainder of the construction period (estimated to be completed in March 2025), a new agreement, specifically for 
the Transfer Pump Project, is required. In addition, HDR needs to be compensated for their services for re-packaging the 
bid documents. Staff negotiated a $19,665 fee for HDR’s re-packaging services and to provide engineering services during 
28 of 585

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
construction for the duration of the construction contract. In addition, staff is recommending establishing a contingency 
reserve of $2,000 to address any unforeseen efforts that may be required of HDR throughout construction.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available in the CWP WWTP Annual Major Components (46t090) project budget for this 
agreement and requested contingency. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed action is exempt from environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), since 
entering on-call professional services agreements is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect significant physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) In addition, on June 6, 
2016, the City Council certified a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 2015032006), 
which serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of the Clean Water Program. On July 
16, 2018, the City approved Addendum 1 to the Final PEIR, and on April 15, 2019, approved Addendum 2. Any resultant 
capital improvement or operations and maintenance-related projects resulting from the on-call professional consulting 
services shall be reviewed on an individual basis or evaluated for consistency with the PEIR and Addenda
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7280
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director 
Ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7287
29 of 585

--- page 30 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 1 of 14
Rev 7/21
AGREEMENT WITH HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES
FOR TRANSER PUMP PROJECT
This agreement, made and entered into this day of                             _______, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred 
to as "CITY", and HDR ENGINEERING, INC., a Nebraska corporation, hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT":
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain design professional services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these design professional services by reason of 
its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the 
required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is described in Exhibit A, 
Scope of Services, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is skilled in 
the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY 
relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and CONSULTANT 
agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release 
of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING
3.1
CITY
MATTHEW FABRY, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, will be the representative of CITY for all purposes under 
this Agreement. THOMAS RUARK is hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day to 
day progress and execution of this Agreement.
3.2
CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal.  CONSULTANT shall not assign or transfer its interest 
or obligation under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent.  CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its 
duties under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent.
30 of 585

--- page 31 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 2 of 14
Rev 7/21
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall responsibility for the progress and 
execution of this Agreement for CONSULTANT. MALIKA RAMANATHAN is hereby designated as the PROJECT 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent CONSULTANT during the day-to-day 
work on the Project. JILLIAN DRESSLER is hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows:
Project Manager-Ted Kontonickas
Electrical Engineer-Robb McComb
Mechanical Engineer-Lock Kwan
Maika Winkler-Project Coordinator
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with the following subconsulting firms 
to assist in providing the services required by this Agreement:
__Not Applicable_____________
___________________________
___________________________
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub-consultants necessary for 
performance of the CONSULTANT’s scope of work.  CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-
consultants work into the project as necessary.
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above named CONSULTANT's personnel and 
subconsultants.  CONSULTANT shall not substitute personnel or subconsultants without the CITY's written 
consent.
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while 
providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT's services shall be furnished as described below and as more particularly described in 
Exhibit A, Scope of Services.  Any changes in the Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by 
the Public Works Director.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of all 
studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
31 of 585

--- page 32 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 3 of 14
Rev 7/21
Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in 
its studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other items.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement.
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared by CONSULTANT or 
CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly 
registered in the State of California for each required discipline.  The Contract Documents prepared by 
CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms to all applicable national, state and local 
construction codes and ordinances, building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the 
services of CONSULTANT.  No subconsultant of CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all 
subconsultants are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be responsible for 
their performance.  CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention to the fulfillment of the provisions of this 
Agreement by all of its employees and subconsultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its control.  If any 
employee or subconsultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to carry out the provisions of this Agreement or 
appears to be incompetent or to act in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged 
immediately from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code 
Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for CITY to ascertain that the services 
of CONSULTANT are being performed in accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement.
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and be completed as set forth in 
Exhibit B, Project Schedule.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement.  CONSULTANT agrees to 
perform the services within the time limits set forth in Exhibit B.
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT's timetable.
32 of 585

--- page 33 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 4 of 14
Rev 7/21
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full performances 
of the services and any reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a 
fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed $19,665.  Requests for payments shall be itemized and 
correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and cost schedule 
set forth in Exhibit C.
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work authorized in advance 
in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and 
CITY shall agree upon an estimated not to exceed cost for such extra work.  In no event shall CONSULTANT be 
paid for additional work that is necessary because of CONSULTANT's errors or oversights.
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the number of hours worked by 
persons and the direct costs incurred during each phase under this Agreement.  All such records shall be 
maintained on a generally accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible.  
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY at all times, shall permit the CITY 
to examine and audit those books and records, shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, 
and shall permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities related to this 
Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final payment under this Agreement.  All accounting 
records shall provide an understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement.  All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall be kept separate from other 
CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after 
CONSULTANT's receipt of final payment under this Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all compensable activity on the project.
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings.  If CITY disagrees with any 
portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the 
CONSULTANT shall attempt to resolve the disagreement.  CITY's payment of any amounts shall not constitute a 
waiver of any disagreement.
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing or increasing the amount of 
CONSULTANT's services by amending this Agreement.  In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT 
shall be entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of change.  In no event 
shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in 
writing by CITY.
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the schedule for progress and 
completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by 
negotiation between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San Mateo City Council.
33 of 585

--- page 34 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 5 of 14
Rev 7/21
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to CITY.  CONSULTANT covenants 
that it presently has no interest, and will not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which 
would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this Agreement.  
CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps to ensure that, it does not employ a person 
having such an interest in the performance of this Agreement.  If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or indirect interest that would conflict with its 
performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall promptly sever the employment relationship.
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION
A.
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY may, by ten days 
written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S 
convenience or because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon receipt and 
within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall:
1.
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice directs otherwise); and
2.
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries and such other information 
and materials as may have been accumulated by CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether 
completed or in progress.
B.
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be compensated for all authorized 
work performed prior to notification of termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services.
C.
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, it is determined by a court 
or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected 
for the convenience of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as provided in 
paragraph (B) of this section.
D.
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the project upon sixty (60) days 
written notice to CITY, but only in the event of substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY 
abandons or indefinitely postpones the Project.
E.
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project by either CITY or 
CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate.
34 of 585

--- page 35 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 6 of 14
Rev 7/21
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although instruments 
of professional service, are and shall be the property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is 
executed or not.  All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports and supportive data 
prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of this Agreement are the CITY's property 
and shall be delivered to the CITY upon the completion of CONSULTANT's services or at the CITY's written 
request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits prepared or assembled by CONSULTANT in connection with 
the performance of its services pursuant to this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the 
public, and the CONSULTANT shall not make any of these documents or information available to any individual 
or organization not employed by the CONSULTANT or the CITY without the written consent of the CITY before 
any such release.
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit D to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT and 
cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY.
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, 
liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct in the 
performance of its design professional services under this Agreement. To the maximum extent permitted by law 
and Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other 
term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which 
may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the 
other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance.
35 of 585

--- page 36 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 7 of 14
Rev 7/21
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding 
$5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable 
whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, 
appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable 
regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its subconsultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical 
handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational 
qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by 
the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators 
listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, 
or other agreed upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making 
a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting 
with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the 
maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon 
CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for testimony, testimony, and 
travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
To CITY: 
Matthew Fabry, Public Works Director
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
36 of 585

--- page 37 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 8 of 14
Rev 7/21
 
To CONSULTANT: 
HDR Engineering, Inc.  
Attn:  Holly Kennedy, Vice President 
3003 Oak Road, Suite 500
Walnut Creek, CA 94597 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENTS
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and CONSULTANT and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, deliver, and 
perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the 
legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective party.
SECTION 24 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise unenforceable by a 
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect.
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
SECTION 26 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURES PAGE FOLLOWS]
37 of 585

--- page 38 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 9 of 14
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and HDR ENGINEERING, INC. 
has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
Matthew Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Holly Kennedy 
Its Authorized Agent
Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Work
Exhibit B:
Project Schedule
Exhibit C:
Cost Schedule
Exhibit D:
Insurance Requirements
38 of 585

--- page 39 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 10 of 14
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
  Scope of services is as follows
•
Project management and Engineering Service to prepare bid documents for rebidding 
the project
•
Project management and Project Engineer services to address Requests for information, 
review submittals and address issues that may arise during construction.
•
Attend construction status meetings as needed.
39 of 585

--- page 40 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 11 of 14
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT B
PROJECT SCHEDULE
The project duration is assumed to be from October 2024 to March 2025.
40 of 585

--- page 41 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 12 of 14
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT C
COST SCHEDULE
•
Agreement of $19,665 summarized as follows:
41 of 585

--- page 42 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 13 of 14
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT D
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
42 of 585

--- page 43 ---
Professional Services – Estero (PW)
Page 14 of 14
Rev 7/21
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
43 of 585

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3159
File ID: 24-9196
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Art in Public Places Annual Report, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of Committee Members - 
Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Art in Public Places Annual Reports for 2023 and 2024; renew the Civic Arts Committee for two years; and 
reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required 
by the Ordinance, and each year an Art in Public Places Annual Report (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC). The Report provides information about projects that have been completed during the calendar year, 
projects in progress and in the pipeline, and administrative activities. The 2022 Report was approved by City Council on 
November 7, 2022. Due to staff changes and limited information to provide, no annual report was provided in 2023. This 
Report covers both 2023 and 2024.
The Civic Arts Committee reviewed the Annual Reports for 2023 and 2024 at their September 9, 2024, meeting and 
recommended approval of the Annual Reports, renewal of the Civic Arts Committee, and reappointment of the current 
members.
Administration
The Ordinance requires private developers of projects over $3 million to either install an art piece of a certain value or pay 
an in-lieu fee that is deposited into the Art in Public Places Fund (Fund). The Fund may be used for Ordinance 
administration, art acquisition, installation and/or improvement, maintenance of City-owned public art, development of an 
Art in Public Places Master Plan (Master Plan), and other public art related activities. On November 15, 2021, as part of the 
City’s comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised to increase the art obligation/in-lieu fee amount from 0.5 
percent to 1.19 percent of the total building valuation, excluding the value of land acquisition and off-site improvement 
costs. 
Planning
On November 7, 2022, the City Council approved the 2022 Annual Report and the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) request to 
develop a Public Art Master Plan. Due to staffing transitions and other high priority policy initiatives, including the 
General Plan and Housing Element update efforts, limited progress was made in 2023 and 2024. To date, staff has begun 
researching various jurisdictions similar to San Mateo that have developed art master plans, or are in progress of doing 
so, to better understand best practices and gain insights from others. Next steps to proceed with the Master Plan would 
include interdepartmental collaboration to identify the subjects and activities to be included in the Master Plan and 
44 of 585

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
preparation of a Request for Proposals (RFP) to select a consultant to facilitate the process and assist in development of 
the Master Plan. 
Since preparation of the Master Plan will require monetary and staffing resources to complete, staff recommends that 
this CAC request be considered as part of the City Council’s 2025-26 goal setting workshop. To assist in considering this 
request, staff will provide additional information about the potential cost, scope, and timeline for completing a Public Art 
Master Plan ahead of the goal setting workshop.
Public Art
On February 13, 2023, the CAC reviewed 12 submissions in response to a Request for Proposals seeking an artist for the 
Racial Equity Art Project and invited finalists to submit design proposals. On May 31, 2023, the CAC reviewed six 
proposal submissions containing 26 designs and the community feedback resulting from public engagement activities. 
The Committee recommended artist Rafael Blanco for Council approval. The Committee also requested Council to direct 
the Committee to work with the artist on the final design decision. On June 20, 2023, the City Council approved Rafael 
Blanco as the artist selected for the Racial Equity Art Project. As reported in the last annual report, the closing of B Street 
blocks for a permanent Pedestrian Mall allowed for its use as a unique and large enough space to use for the project. 
The Council directed the CAC to work with Mr. Blanco in revising and approving the design to expand to both Pedestrian 
Mall blocks and incorporate feedback from the public, the City Council, and the CAC. This CAC held a study session to 
review and discuss the draft designs on August 14, 2023, and voted unanimously to approve the final design on 
September 11, 2023. The mural unveiling took place on October 28, 2023.
 
On November 13, 2023, the CAC reviewed the City public art project for the Fallen Heroes Memorial and recommended 
to City Council a budget transfer of $103,400 from the Art in Public Places Fund for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes 
Memorial artwork. On December 4, 2023, the City Council approved the budget transfer, and the artwork was 
completed and unveiled on May 23, 2024.
 
On January 8, 2024, the CAC reviewed and made recommendations for a proposed art project as part of a new commercial 
development at 31-57 S. B Street (1st & B). The developer has not yet returned to the committee with an update on the 
proposed design.
Committee Renewal and Terms 
The Civic Arts Committee (CAC) is a special committee subject to the provisions of Section 6.09 of the City Charter that 
states that the terms of such committees are not to exceed two years but may be extended by action of the Council for a 
period not exceeding the original term of the committee. This means that the CAC may be renewed by the Council every 
two years for a two-year period and the current committee members may be reappointed. There are no term limits in 
place for this committee although the representative of the Planning Commission is subject to the existing term of that 
body. Current members are: 
• City Arts of San Mateo Representative — Dianne Whitaker 
• AIA Architect Representative — Robert Gooyer 
• Professional Artist Representative — Ginger Slonaker 
• Planning Commission Representative — Seema Patel 
• Chamber of Commerce Representative — Stephen Tabler
BUDGET IMPACT:
This recommendation has no budget impact. This report is a ministerial action only for the Civic Arts Committee. As of 
September 1, 2024, the Art in Public Places Capital Improvement Program (CIP) account has a fund balance of 
approximately $1,044,000.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The approval of the report, renewal of the committee, or reappointment of committee members are not projects pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), because they are organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
45 of 585

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Art in Public Places Annual Reports for 2023 and 2024
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Rosas, CDD Business Manager
jrosas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
46 of 585

--- page 47 ---
1
Art 
in
Public 
Places
2023 & 2024
ANNUAL 
REPORTS
INSIDE
PG. 2
•
Art in Public Places 
Program
•
Art in Public Places 
Fund
•
Program Policy
PG. 3
•
Completed Projects
PG. 4
•
In‐Progress & Pipeline 
Projects
47 of 585

--- page 48 ---
2
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM
DESCRIPTION OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND PROGRAM
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required 
by the Ordinance and each year an Art in Public Places Annual Report (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC).. The Report provides information about projects that have been completed during the calendar year, 
projects in progress and in the pipeline, and administrative activities.
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FUND
FUND SOURCES, USES, & FUND BALANCE
The Ordinance requires private developers of projects 
over $3 million to either install an art piece of a 
certain value or pay an in‐lieu fee that is deposited 
into the Art in Public Places Fund (Fund). The Fund 
may be used for Ordinance administration, art 
acquisition, installation, and/or improvement, 
maintenance of City‐owned public art, development 
of an Art in Public Places Master Plan (Master Plan), 
and other public art related activities.
Any art related activities that need expenditure of 
these funds requires a recommendation of approval 
from the Civic Arts Committee to the City Council and 
the Council’s approval.
In recent years, several project developers chose to 
pay the in‐lieu fee. As a result, the current fund 
balance in the Art in Public Places Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP) account is approximately
$1,044,000 (as of September 1, 2024).
CHANGES TO ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FEE
On November 15, 2021, as part of the City’s 
comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised 
to increase the art obligation/in‐lieu fee amount from 
0.5% to 1.19% of the total building valuation, 
excluding the value of land acquisition and off‐site 
improvement costs.
The fee will automatically increase annually in line 
with the other City fee increases, which are based on 
the Construction Cost Index for the San Francisco 
Area. The purpose of the increase was to ensure City 
costs to administer the program are fully recovered.
PROGRAM POLICY
PUBLIC ART MASTER PLAN
On November 7, 2022, the City Council approved the 
2022 Annual Report and with that, the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC) request to develop a Public Art 
Master Plan.
Due to staffing transitions and other high priority 
policy initiatives, including the General Plan and 
Housing Element update efforts, limited progress was 
made in 2023 and 2024. To date, staff has begun 
researching various jurisdictions similar to San Mateo 
that have developed art master plans, or are in 
progress of doing so, to see where we may gain 
insights from others.
Next steps to proceed with the Master Plan would 
include interdepartmental collaboration to identify the 
subjects and activities to be included in the Master Plan 
and preparation of a Request for Proposals (RFP) to 
select a consultant to facilitate the process and assist in 
development of the Master Plan.
A key objective of the Public Art Master Plan Art would 
be to align all public art related activities with current 
practices that meet the City’s interests and needs.
The Civic Arts Committee and City staff would work 
closely with the selected consultant to lead this effort 
and conduct community engagement, which will be a 
vital component of the Master Plan development.
Since two years have passed since this topic was last 
before the City Council, the CAC is seeking confirmation 
from the City Council about support for preparation of a 
Public Art Master Plan, and when staff time and budgetary 
resources would be prioritized to support the effort.
48 of 585

--- page 49 ---
3
COMPLETED PROJECTS
ART INSTALLED BY DEVELOPERS AT THEIR PROJECT LOCATIONS
Two projects fully completed their art installations in 2023 and 2024: The Racial Equity Art Project, as pictured on the 
front page and below, and the Fallen Heroes Art Memorial shown below. Formal completion of art projects requires 
installation in accordance with the approved proposal and final inspections for all art related building permits, the 
provision of financial documents confirming the obligated expenditures, and a recorded Covenant of Public Art 
Maintenance with San Mateo County to establish the property owner’s obligation to maintain the art.
Remembrance Poppy
Fallen Heroes Art Memorial 
Central Park
Artist: RRM Design Group
Materials: Seven reflective stainless steel monuments 
with engraved names, painted steel 'slice' poppy image
Granite bench, decorative paving, flush mount lights 
Completed in May 2024
When viewed from one specific point, the monuments
will unite to form a single image – the remembrance 
poppy.
49 of 585

--- page 50 ---
4
EQUITY PUBLIC ART 
PROJECT
SUPPORTING RACIAL EQUITY
In July 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution 
reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to 
racial equality and equity. The Council discussed the 
concept of a community mural or other community 
art project that would reflect and promote racial 
equity and diversity.
On June 20, 2023 the City Council (Council) approved 
Rafael Blanco as the artist selected for the Racial 
Equity Art Project. As reported in the last annual 
report, the closing of B Street blocks for a permanent 
Pedestrian Mall allowed for its use as a unique and 
large enough space to use for the project. The 
Council directed the CAC to work with Mr. Blanco in 
revising and approving the design to expand to both 
Pedestrian Mall blocks and incorporate the feedback 
from the public, the City Council, and the CAC. The 
CAC held a study session to review and discuss the 
draft designs on August 14, 2023, then met on 
September 11, 2023 and voted unanimously to 
approve the final design. The mural unveiling took 
place on October 28, 2023.
SPECIAL MENTION:
480 E. 4th Ave: Kiku Crossing - MidPen Housing & 
City-Owned Downtown site for
Affordable Housing & Parking Garage
The mural on the Kiku Crossing project was 
completed in December 2022 but was not included 
in the 2022 Annual Report. Harumo Sato, was 
selected to create three murals that stand up to 
54-feet tall on the Kiku Crossing parking garage. 
Artist and mural are pictured here (right).
PIPELINE PROJECTS
The project listed below has been identified as large enough that it is expected to be obligated to provide art or pay the 
in‐lieu fees. The pipeline project developer has contacted staff regarding their art interests and obligations and has 
already made an initial presentation to the CAC, at the January 8, 2024 meeting for feedback on concepts and design.
▪
31‐57 S. B Street (1st & B): Four‐story retail and office building in Downtown
50 of 585

--- page 51 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 24-9271
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Public Safety Data Sharing — Memorandum of Understanding 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Memorandum of Understanding with San Mateo County law enforcement agencies to provide a standardized 
approach and method of collection and sharing information within their electronic data systems; and authorize Chief of 
Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
San Mateo County allied law enforcement agencies have a longstanding history of working together to provide efficient 
utilization of resources in public safety efforts.  In the coming year several local agencies, including the City of San Mateo, 
will begin utilizing a shared AI-powered law enforcement system called C3 AI, a project which is funded by Organized Retail 
Theft grant funds.  The C3 AI tool will aggregate data from police records, dispatch software, license plate readers and 
other intelligence into a single application, enabling law enforcement to efficiently and accurately search through various 
disparate datasets.  
The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) outlines an agreement between County law enforcement agencies for the 
purpose of securely sharing data in support of public safety efforts. The MOU establishes a standardized framework for 
collaboration and data exchange, specifically to enhance public safety using this centralized, AI-powered law enforcement 
system. Authorized personnel from each agency will have secure, regulated access to shared data for investigative 
purposes, adhering to federal and state security standards. Member agencies retain control over their data and can 
restrict access as needed. The agreement emphasizes data security, proper training for users, compliance with legal 
standards, and respect for privacy rights, prohibiting data use for immigration enforcement. The MOU will be reviewed 
every three years, with an option for parties to withdraw or amend. 
Data sharing among law enforcement agencies is essential for creating a comprehensive view of criminal activity across 
jurisdictions.  This can enable a faster response, and ultimately improve public safety.  Staff recommends approving the 
MOU as it fosters a unified approach to data sharing across all participating entities.  It is the policy of the City that 
intergovernmental agreements be approved the City Council.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
51 of 585

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Glen Teixeira, Lieutenant
gtexeira@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7608
52 of 585

--- page 53 ---
53 of 585

--- page 54 ---
54 of 585

--- page 55 ---
55 of 585

--- page 56 ---
56 of 585

--- page 57 ---
57 of 585

--- page 58 ---
58 of 585

--- page 59 ---
59 of 585

--- page 60 ---
60 of 585

--- page 61 ---
61 of 585

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4651
File ID: 24-9282
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
1900 O’Farrell Street Office Space Lease — Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the third amendment to the office lease agreement with Woodstock Development, Inc. for office space in Suites 
320 and 325 at 1900 O’Farrell Street, extending the term for an additional five years with two optional five-year extensions 
at a base rent amount of $1,938,237.96 for the initial five-year term; and authorize the City Manager to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
In May 2014, City Council authorized a 60-month lease agreement with Woodstock Development, Inc. (Attachment 2) for 
office space at 1900 O’Farrell Street to provide space to accommodate multiple divisions within the Public Works 
Department. The City leased a total of 6,975 square feet (sf) of space in this building: Suite 320 (5,460 sf) and Suite 380 
(1,515 sf). Both suites were located on the third floor but were disconnected and situated at opposite ends of the building. 
In February 2015, City Council authorized the first amendment (Attachment 3) to the original lease to extend the term 
through March 31, 2020, and allow the Public Works Department to expand and create a cohesive, fully integrated and 
connected space. This amendment allowed the department to continue to lease Suite 320 (5,460 sf), expand into adjacent 
Suite 325 (4,400 sf) and vacate Suite 380 (1,515 sf). This resulted in a total of 9,860 sf of space, a net increase of 2,885 sf 
from the original lease. This created a single, centralized location and has provided improved efficiency and functionality 
within the department. 
Under the second amendment (Attachment 4), the term of the lease agreement was extended for sixty (60) months, 
commencing on April 1, 2020, and ending on March 31, 2025. Per the building’s 2018 Building Owners and Managers 
Association (BOMA) re-measurement, it was determined that Suites 320 and 325 contain approximately 10,141 sf of 
rentable area on the third floor, with the entire building consisting of approximately 61,443 square feet of rentable area. 
Therefore, the two suites occupied by Public Works comprise 16.5 percent of the building’s rentable space. This is 281 
square feet more than initially calculated at the start of the original lease. 
Under this proposed third amendment (Attachment 1), the term of the lease agreement will be extended for sixty (60) 
months, commencing on April 1, 2025. Also included are two optional five-year extensions. Finally, the base rental rate 
was negotiated lower, which starts at $3.00/sf (vs. $4.80/sf in the existing lease) with 3 percent annual increases. The 
detail is provided in the schedule of payments shown below: 
Period
Monthly Base Rent 
Rate
Monthly Base Rent for 
10,141 sf
Yearly Base Rent
April 1, 2025 – March 31, 2026
$3.0000
$30,423.00
$365,076.00
62 of 585

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
April 1, 2026 – March 31, 2027
$3.0900
$31,335.69
$376,028.28
April 1, 2027 – March 31, 2028
$3.1827
$32,275.76
$387,309.12
April 1, 2028 – March 31, 2029
$3.2782
$33,244.03
$398,928.36
April 1, 2029 – March 31, 2030
$3.3765
$34,241.35
$410,896.20
BUDGET IMPACT:
The renegotiated lease reduces the current monthly base rent from $48,508.59 to $30,423.00, lowering the total annual 
rent from $582,103.08 to $365,076.00, which represents a 37.3 percent cost reduction. This change results in a projected 
cost savings of $54,881.70 for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2024-25 (April-June), currently allocated with 55 percent to the 
General Fund and 45 percent to the Sewer Fund. These savings will be incorporated into the mid-year budget adjustments 
for 2024-25, and the revised lease terms will be factored into future budget planning.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This lease amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Third Amendment to Lease Agreement
Att 2 – Original Lease Agreement
Att 3 – First Amendment to Lease Agreement
Att 4 – Second Amendment to Lease Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
63 of 585

--- page 64 ---
64 of 585

--- page 65 ---
65 of 585

--- page 66 ---
66 of 585

--- page 67 ---
67 of 585

--- page 68 ---
EXHIBIT A TO LEASE

[Diagram of Premises].

Suite 380

Suite 320

-68 of 585


--- page 69 ---
EXHIBIT BTO LEASE

[Base Rent Schedule)

MONTHS

FULL SERVICE BASE RENT PER MONTH

13-24 $22,318.30
25-36 $22,987.85
37-48 $23,667.48

49-60 $24,387.81 -

69 of 585


--- page 70 ---
EXHIBIT C TO LEASE
[Tenant Improvements]

Landlord, at Landlord's sole cost and expense shall provide the following "Turnkey Tenant
Improvements" to the Premises. City of San Mateo shall waive all permitting, and architectural
review fees associated with the construction of Tenant Improvements in the Premises.

For Suite 320

1)

2)

3)

4)
3)
6)
7)

8)

9)

Construction of two (2) private offices as highlighted in Exhibit A with new doors, frames,
glass side lights. Includes rezoning of any HVAC and installation of thermostat in each
additional private office

Construction of 12.5' laminate counter top, upper & lower cabinetry in the kitchen area

Construction of new sink with faucet in the kitchen area, specs: Dayton 252 1/as 4175.
Installation of water heater for sink, specs: Emax 4208 SP 4200

Installation of ADA dishwasher (GE) white in the kitchen area

Replace any damaged or missing ceiling tiles

Patch any existing demo-scars, cap-off and cant existing below grid ceiling soffits
New Building Standard VCT in kitchen area

Installation of Shaw Carpet Tile: Shaw "Transparent 59563; Color: "Porcelain 62103"
Layout: Monolithic (or cost equivalent), and 4-inch rubber base.

New Paint

For Suite 380:

1)

Removal of the existing Full Glass Conference Room, and patch any demo scars

Landlord's "Turnkey Buildout" shall include all! architectural fees and project management. In
addition to Landlord's Scope of Turnkey Tenant {mprovements, Landlord shall provide $4.00 per
Rentable Square Foot to be applied towards electrical distribution of power poles in the Premise, _
and connection to any existing AT&T fiber line in the Project. Landlord does not warrant the
quality of any existing wiring or fiber line in the Premises or Project, and Tenant shall contact
AT&T directly for service contract |

Tenant shall be responsible for any costs associated with change orders to the Landlord's Turnkey
Tenant Improvements

70 of 585


--- page 71 ---
EXHIBIT D TO LEASE

[Tenant's Insurance Requirements]

This Exhibit D outlines the insurance requirements of this Lease. To assure compliance with these
terms, it is suggested that the Tenant send a copy of this Exhibit to its insurer or agent. Prior to
Tenant occupying the Premises (whether under an early occupancy arrangement or otherwise) and
not less than thirty (30) days prior to policy expiration), Tenant shall provide to Landlord a
"Certificate of Insurance- ACORD Form 25" with respect to liability coverage, together with
copies of policy endorsements showing Additional Insureds as required by this Lease.

I. Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability Insurance:
$1,000,000. Combined Single Limit, each occurrence.
$2,000,000. Aggregate (minimum) this location.
$1,000,000. Products/Completed Operations Aggregate.
$50,000. Fire Legal Liability Limit, per fire, Bodily Injury, Property Damage, Personal
Injury and Advertising Injury; Blanket Contractual Liability - Covering Indemnity Section
18(b); Products and Completed Operations Liability; Landlord as an Additional Insured;

Severability of Interest, permitting Cross liability among insured; provision stating that
Tenant's insurance is primary and non-contributing with any insurance carried by Landlord.

2, Tenant's Property Insurance:

All Risks coverage of Property owned by Tenant or for which the Tenant is legally liable,
full replacement cost basis.

3, Tenant's Business Interruption Insurance:

All Risks coverage of operations as leased premises; covering one-year business interruption
due to insured peril.

4, Tenant's Workers’ Compensation and Employer's Liability Insurance:

Statutory Limits and terms required by State; $1,000,000. Employer's Liability Limit.

5. Tenant's Automobile Insurance:

$1,000,000 Combined Limit per accident; covering all owned, non-owned, hired autos.

[continued .on next page]

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

71 of 585


--- page 72 ---
All insurance is to be with licensed insurers having a Best's rating of"A:X" or better, and Tenant
will provide written notice to Landlord of insurance policy cancellation or material alteration to the
detriment of Landlord such that notice is consistent with Tenant's written notice from Tenant's

insurance company,

SEND CERTIFICATE AND ENDORSEMENT. TO:
WOODSTOCK DEVELOPMENT INC.

Attn: Lisa Stephenson

330 Primrose Road, Suite 203

Burlingame, CA 94010

PLEASE INCLUDE ADDRESS OF PREMISES.

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

72 of 585


--- page 73 ---
EXHIBIT ETO LEASE
[DEFINITION OF OPERATING EXPENSES AND REAL PROPERTY TAXES]

I, Items Included in Operating Expenses. The term "Operating Expense(s)" as used
in the Lease to which this Exhibit E is attached means all costs and expenses of Operation,
maintenance, repair and replacement of the Development incurred by Landlord (as such terms are
defined in the Lease), including the following costs by way of illustration but not limitation, but
excluding those items specifically set forth in Paragraph A.3 below:

a. any and all assessments imposed with respect to the Building pursuant to any
covenants, conditions and restrictions affecting the Development;

b. water and sewer charges and the costs of electricity, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and other utilities;

c.- utilities surcharges and any other costs, levies or assessments resulting from
statutes or regulations promulgated by any government or quasi-government authority in connection
with the use, occupancy or alteration of the Development; .

d. costs of insurance covering all or any portion of the Development obtained
by Landlord;

€. waste disposal and janitorial services;

f. security (provided that Landlord shall have no obligation to provide security);

g. labor;

h.- costs incurred in the management of the Building, including, without

limitation: (i) supplies, (ii)-wages and salaries (and payroll taxes and similar governmental charges
related thereto) of employees used in the management, operation and maintenance of the Building,
(iii) Building management office rental, supplies, equipment and related operating expenses, and
(iv) a management/administrative fee for management of the Building (determined as a percentage
of the gross rents of the Building), together with an administrative fee for the management of the
Development Common Area (determined as a percentage of the Development Common Area
Operating Expenses), which, collectively, shall not exceed 5% of gross rents in the Project.

i. supplies, materials, equipment and tools including rental of personal property
used for maintenance;

j. repair and maintenance of the elevators and the non-structural portions of the
Building, including, without limitation, the plumbing, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning,
telecommunications and electrical systems installed or furnished by Landlord; -.

k. maintenance, costs and upkeep of all parking and Development Common
Areas;

73 of 585


--- page 74 ---
I. depreciation ona straight line basis and rental of personal property used in
maintenance; .

m. amortization on a straight line basis over the useful life together with interest
at the Interest Rate on the unamortized balance of all capitalized expenditures which are: (i)
reasonably intended to produce a reduction in operating charges or energy consumption; or (ii)
required under any governmental law or regulation that was not applicable to the Building at the
time it was originally constructed; or (iii) for replacement of any Building equipment needed to
operate the Building at the same quality levels as prior to the replacement;

n. costs and expenses of gardening and landscaping;
QO. maintenance of signs (other than signs of Tenants of the Building);
p. personal property taxes levied on or attributable to personal property used in

connection with the Building or the Common Areas;

q. reasonable accounting, audit, verification, legal and other consulting fees;
and
r. costs and expenses of repairs, resurfacing, repairing, maintenance, painting,
lighting, cleaning, refuse removal, and similar items, including appropriate reserves.

2. Real Property Taxes and Assessments. The term "Real Property Taxes and
Assessments", as used in this Exhibit E, means any form of assessment, license fee, license tax,
business license fee, commercial rental tax, levy, charge, improvement bond, tax or similar
imposition imposed by any authority having the direct power to tax, including any city, county,
state or federal government, or any school, agricultural, lighting, drainage or other improvement or
special assessment district thereof, as against any legal-or equitable interest of Landlord in the
Premises, Building, Common Areas or the Development (as such terms are defined in the Lease),
adjusted to reflect an assumption that the Building is fully assessed for real property tax purposes as
a completed building ready for occupancy, including the following by way of illustration but not
limitation:

a. _any tax on Landlord's "right" to rent or "right" to other income from the
Premises or as against Landlord's business of leasing the Premises,

b. any assessment, tax, fee, levy or charge in substitution, partially or totally, of
any assessment, tax, fee, levy or charge previously included within the definition of real property
tax, it being acknowledged by Tenant and Landlord that Proposition 13 was adopted by the voters of
the State of California in the June, 1978 election and that assessments, taxes, fees, levies and charges
may be imposed by governmental agencies for such services as fire protection, street, sidewalk and
road maintenance, refuse removal and for other governmental services formerly
provided without charge to property owners or occupants. It is the intention of Tenant and Landlord

that all such new and increased assessments, taxes, fees, levies and charges be included Within the
definition of "real property taxes" for the purposes of this Lease;

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

74 of 585


--- page 75 ---
c. any assessment, tax, fee, levy or charge allocable to or measured by the area
of the Premises or other premises in the Building or the rent payable by Tenant hereunder or other
Tenants of the Building, including, without limitation, any gross receipts tax or excise tax levied by
state, city or federal government, or any political subdivision thereof, with respect to the receipt of
such rent, or upon or with respect to the possession, leasing, operation, management, maintenance,
alteration, repair, use or occupancy by Tenant of the Premises, or any portion thereof but not on
Landlord's other operations;

d. any assessment, tax, fee, levy or charge upon this transaction or any
document to which Tenant is a party, creating or transferring an interest or an estate in the Premises;
and/or

e. any assessment, tax, fee, levy or charge by any governmental agency related
to any transportation plan, fund or system (including assessment districts) instituted within the
geographic area of which the Development is a part.

3. Items Excluded From Operating Expenses and Real Property Taxes.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs | and 2 above to the contrary, "Operating Expenses"
and/or "Real Property Taxes" shall not include:

a. Landlord's federal or state income, franchise, inheritance or estate taxes;
b. any ground lease rental;
c. costs incurred by Landlord for the repair of damage to the Building to the

extent that Landlord is reimbursed by insurance or condemnation proceeds or by Tenants,
warrantors or other third persons;

d. . brokerage commissions, finders’ fees, attorneys’ fees, space planning costs
and other costs incurred by Landlord in leasing or attempting to lease space in the Building;

a interest, principal, points and fees on debt or amortization on any mortgage,
deed of trust or other debt encumbering the Building or the Development;

f. costs, including permit, license and inspection costs, incurred with respect to
the installation of Tenant improvements for Tenants in the Building (including the original Tenant
Improvements for the Premises), or incurred in renovating or otherwise improving, decorating,
painting or redecorating space for Tenants or other occupants of the Building, including space
planning and interior design costs and fees;

g. except for the administrative/management fees described in Subparagraph
lh. above, costs of Landlord's general corporate overhead,

h. all items and services for which Tenant or any other tenant in the Building
réimburses Landlord (other than through Operating “Expense~pass-through provisions);

i costs arising from Landlord's charitable or political -contributions;

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

75 of 585


--- page 76 ---
EXHIBIT F TO LEASE

[STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES AND SERVICES]

The following standards for utilities and services are in effect. Landlord reserves the right to adopt
nondiscriminatory modifications and additions hereto.

Subject to the terms and conditions of the Lease and provided Tenant remains in occupancy of the
Premises, Landlord wil] provide or make available the following utilities and services:

T. On Monday through Friday, except holidays, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. (and other times at a
reasonable hourly additional charge fixed by Landlord; however, Landlord reserves the right to
adjust this charge in accordance with market conditions), ventilate the Premises and furnish air
conditioning or heating on such days and hours, when it may be required for the comfortable
occupancy of the Premises. The air conditioning system achieves maximum cooling when the
window coverings are extended to the full length of the window opening and adjusted to a 45° angle
upwards. Landlord will not be responsible for room temperatures if Tenant does not keep all
window coverings in the Premises extended to the full length of the window opening and adjusted
to a 45° angle upwards whenever the system is in operation. Tenant agrees to cooperate fully at all
times with Landlord, and to abide by all reasonable regulations and requirements which Landlord
may prescribe for the proper function and protection of said air conditioning system. Ténant agrees
not to connect any apparatus, device, conduit or pipe to the chilled and hot water air conditioning
supply lines of the Building. Tenant further agrees that neither Tenant nor its servants, employees,
agents, visitors, licensees or contractors shall at any time enter the mechanical installations or
facilities of the Building or the Development or adjust, tamper with, touch or otherwise in any
manner affect said installations or facilities. The cost of maintenance and service calls to adjust and
regulate the air conditioning system will be charged to Tenant ifthe need for maintenance work
results from either Tenant's adjustment of room thermostats or Tenant's failure to comply with its
obligations under this Exhibit, including keeping window coverings extended to the ful! length of the
window opening and adjusted to a 45° angle upwards. Such work will be charged at hourly

rates equal to then-current journeyman's wages for air conditioning mechanics.

2. Landlord will make available to the Premises, 24 hours per day, seven days a week, electric
current as required by the Building standard office lighting and fractional horsepower office business
machines including copiers, personal computers and word processing equipment in an amount not to
exceed six (6) watts per square foot per normal business day. Tenant agrees, should its electrical
installation or electrical consumption be in excess of the aforesaid quantity or extend beyond normal
business hours, to reimburse Landlord monthly for the measured consumption at the average cost per
kilowatt hour charged to the Building during the period. If a separate meter is not installed at
Tenant's cost, such excess cost will be established by an estimate agreed upon by Landlord and
Tenant, and if the parties fail to agree, such cost will be established by an independent licensed
engineer selected in Landlord's reasonable discretion, whose fee shall be shared equally by Landlord
and Tenant. Tenant "agrees not to.use any apparatus or device in; upon or about the Premises (other
than standard office business machines, personal computers and word processing equipment) which
may in any way increase the amount of such services usually furnished or supplied to said Premises,
and Tenant further agrees not to connect any apparatus or device with

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

76 of 585


--- page 77 ---
wires, conduits or pipes, or other means by which such services are supplied, for the purpose of
using additional or unusual amounts of such services without the written consent of Landlord.
Should Tenant use the same to excess, the refusal on the part of Tenant to pay upon demand of
Landlord the amount established by Landlord for such excess charge will constitute a breach of the
obligation to pay rent under this Lease and will entitle Landlord to the rights therein granted for
such breach. Tenant's use of electric current will never exceed the capacity of the feeders to the
Building, or the risers or wiring installation and Tenants will not install or use or permit the
installation or use of any computer or electronic data processing equipment in the Premises (except
standard office business machines, personal computers and word processing equipment) without the
prior written consent of Landlord. Sf Tenant's Premises contain other than building standard light
fixtures, Tenant at its sole expense, not Landlord, shall be responsible for replacement of lamps in
such fixtures.

3. Water will be available in public areas for drinking and lavatory purposes only, but if Tenant
requires, uses or consumes water for any purpose in addition to ordinary drinking and lavatory
purposes, of which fact Tenant constitutes Landlord to be the sole judge, Landlord may install a
water meter and thereby measure Tenant's water consumption for all purposes. Tenant agrees to
pay Landlord for the cost of the meter and the cost of the installation thereof and throughout the
duration of Tenant's occupancy Tenant will keep said meter and installation equipment in good
working order and repair at Tenant's own cost and expense, in default of which Landlord may cause
such meter and equipment to be replaced or repaired and collect the cost thereof from Tenant. Tenant
agrees to pay for water consumed, as shown on such meter, as and when bills are rendered, and on
default in making such payment, Landlord may pay such charges and collect the same from Tenant.
Any such costs or expenses incurred, or payments made by Landlord for any of the reasons or
purposes hereinabove stated will be deemed to be additional rent payable by Tenant and collectible
by Landlord as such.

4. Landlord will provide janitorial service (dusting, refuse container emptying, vacuuming
carpeted areas, sweeping and mopping resilient tile floors) to the Premises five days per week,
excluding holidays, provided the same are used exclusively as offices, and are kept reasonably in
order by Tenant, and, unless otherwise agreed to by Landlord and Tenant, no one other than persons
approved by Landlord shall be permitted to enter the Premises for such purposes. Ifthe Premises
are not used exclusively as offices, they shall be kept clean and in order by Tenant, at Tenant's
expense, and to the satisfaction of Landlord, and by persons approved by Landlord. Tenant agrees
to pay to Landlord the cost of removal of any of Tenant's refuse and rubbish to the extent that the
same exceeds the refuse and rubbish usually attendant upon the use of the Premises as offices.
Janitorial services shall not include shampooing of carpets or cleaning of any drapes or furniture.
Landlord may impose an additional charge for unusual janitorial services required because of
Tenant Improvements in the Premises, carelessness of the Tenant, or if the unusual nature of
Tenant's business requires removal of refuse or rubbish from the Premises other than normally
discarded material in waste paper baskets to be emptied incident to normal cleaning of the Premises.

5. Provided that Landlord uses commercially reasonable efforts to minimize interference with
Tenant's use, Landlord reserves the right to stop service of the elevator, plumbing,- ventilation, air
conditioning and electrical systems, when necessary, by reason of accident or emergency or for

repairs, alterations or improvements, when in the judgment of Landlord such actions are desirable
or necessary to be made, until said repairs, alterations or improvements shall have been completed,

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

77 of 585


--- page 78 ---
and Landlord will have no responsibility or liability for failure to supply elevator facilities,
plumbing, ventilating, air conditioning or electric service, when prevented from so doing by strike
or accident or by any cause beyond Landlord's reasonable control, or by laws, rules, orders,
ordinances, directions, regulations or by reason of the requirements of any federal, state, county or
municipal authority or failure of gas, oil or other suitable fuel supply or inability by exercise of
reasonable diligence to obtain gas, oil or other suitable fuel supply. It is expressly understood and
agreed that any covenants on Landlord's part to furnish any services pursuant to any of the terms,
covenants, conditions, provisions or agreements of this Lease, or to perform any act or thing for the
benefit of Tenant, will not be deemed breached if Landlord is unable to furnish or perform the same
by virtue of a strike or labor trouble or any other cause whatsoever beyond Landlord's control, and
there shall be no abatement of rent. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Lease, if Tenant's use or occupancy of the Premises is substantially impaired by an interruption in
services ancllor utilities for a period of more than five (5) business days, Rent shall abate until such
substantial impairment ceases.

6. If the Premises contains a computer room, telecommunications room or other area that is
serviced by a separate HVAC unit ona continuous basis (a "Separate HVAC Unit"), Tenant shall
pay at Tenant's sole expense the entire cost of all electricity used by the Separate HVAC Unit (the
"Separate HVAC Unit Electrical Cost"). No portion of the Separate HVAC Unit Electrical Cost
shall be paid by Landiord, and Tenant shall not be entitled to receive any credit towards Separate
HVAC Unit Electrical Costs for electricity used by the Separate HVAC Unit during Business
Hours. Landlord may determine the Separate HVAC Unit Electrical Cost by installing, at Tenant's
expense, a separate metering device or by estimating the cost of such usage. The Separate HVAC
Unit Electrica! Cost shall be paid by Tenant within ten (10) days after Landlord provides to Tenant
a bill for such usage. In addition, if there is an existing Separate HVAC Unit in the Premises when
Tenant leases the Premises, Tenant accepts such existing Separate HVAC Unit in its "as ts"
condition. Tenant shall pay, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, the entire cost of maintaining,
repairing and, when necessary, replacing any Separate HVAC Unit. Tenant shal{ continuously
maintain, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, maintenance contracts for all Separate HVAC Units,
using maintenance contract forms and with companies approved by Landlord, in Landlord’s sole
discretion (the "Maintenance Contracts"). Tenant shall provide copies of the Maintenance
Contracts to Landlord within ten (10) days after the Commencement Date, and within ten (10) days
after such contracts are modified or renewed, and at other times upon Landlord's request.

7. Landlord reserves the right to exclude from the Building between the hours of 6 p.m. and

7 a.m, the following day, or such other hours as may be established from time to time by Landlord,
and on Sundays and legal holidays, any person unless that person is known to the person or
employee in charge of the Building and has a security badge or is properly identified. Tenant shall
be responsible for all persons for whom it requests security badges and shail be liable to Landlord
for all acts of such persons. Landlord shall not be liable for damages for any error with regard to the
admission to or exclusion from the Building of any person. Landlord reserves the right to prevent
access to the Building in case of invasion, mob, riot, public excitement or other commotion by
closing the doors or by other appropriate action.

City of San Mateo. Lease Agreement

78 of 585


--- page 79 ---
EXHIBIT G TO LEASE
ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE

[Sample only, actual Estoppel to be as required by Lender or Others]

The undersigned, ("Tenant"), hereby certifies to as follows:
1. Attached hereto is a true, correct and complete copy of that certain lease
dated 20 _ , between . , Landlord and

Tenant (the "Lease"), regarding the premises located at
(the "Premises"). The Lease is now in full force
and effect and has not been amended, modified or supplemented, except as set
forth in Paragraph 4 below.

2. The Term of the Lease commenced on ,200_
3, The Term of the Lease shall expire on ,200_
4. The Lease has: (Initial one) |

( } not been amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or assigned.

( ) been amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or assigned by the
following described terms or agreements, copies of which are attached hereto:

5. Tenant has accepted and is now in possession of the Premises.
6. The amount of Monthly Base Rent is$.

7. The amount of security deposits (if any) is$. No other security
deposits have been made except as follows:

8. Tenant is paying the full lease rental specified in the Lease and rent has
been paid in full as of the date hereof. No rent or other charges under the Lease
have been paid for more than thirty (30) days in advance of its due date except as
follows:.

9. All work required to be performed by Landlord under the Lease has been
completed except as
follows:.

10. To the best of Tenant's knowledge, there are no defaults on the part of the
Landlord or Tenant under the Lease except as follows:

79 of 585


--- page 80 ---
11. Neither Landlord nor Tenant has any defense as to its obligations under the
Lease and claims no set-off or counterclaim against the other party except as
follows:

12. All provisions of the Lease and the amendments thereto (if any) referred to
above are hereby ratified.

13. Fenant has no right to any concession (rental or otherwise) or similar
compensation in connection with renting the space it occupies other than as
provided in the Lease except as follows:

The foregoing certification is made with the knowledge that 1S
about to fund a loan to Landlord or is about to purchase
the Building from Landlord and that is relying upon the

representations herein made in funding such loan or in purchasing the Building.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this certificate has been duly executed and:delivered by the
authorized officers of the undersigned as of ,20_.

{Insert Signature Block of Tenant]

SAMPLE ONLY [NOT FOR EXECUTION]

80 of 585


--- page 81 ---
EXHIBIT HTO LEASE

RULES AND REGULATIONS

A. General Rules and Regulations

The following rules and regulations govern the use of the Building and the Development Common
Areas. Tenant will be bound by such rules and regulations and agrees to cause Tenant's Authorized
Users, its employees, subtenants, assignees, contractors, suppliers, customers and invitees to observe
the same.

I. Except as specifically provided in the Lease to which these Rules and
Regulations are.attached, no sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice may be installed
or displayed on any part of the outside or inside of the Building or the Development without the
prior written consent of Landlord. Landlord will have the right to remove, at Tenant's expense and
without notice, any sign installed or displayed in violation of this rule. All approved signs or
lettering on doors and walls are to be printed, painted, affixed or inscribed at the expense of Tenant
and under the direction of Landlord by a person or company designated or approved by Landlord.
Landlord shall supply Tenant with building standard lobby signage and suite entry signage.

2. if Landlord objects in writing to any curtains, blinds, shades, screens or
hanging plants or other similar objects attached to or used in connection with any window or door
of the Premises, or placed on any windowsill, which is visible from the exterior of the Premises,
Tenant wil! immediately discontinue such use. Tenant agrees not to place anything against or near
glass partitions or doors or windows which may appear unsightly from outside the Premises
including from within any Interior common areas.

3. Tenant will not obstruct any sidewalks, halls, passages, exits, entrances,
escalators, or stairways of the Development. The halls, passages, exits, entrances, and stairways are _
not open to the genera! public, but are open, subject to reasonable regulations, to Tenant's business
invitees. Landlord will in all cases retain the right to contro! and prevent access thereto of all
persons whose presence in the reasonable judgment of Landlord would be prejudicial to the safety,
character, reputation and interest of the Development and its Tenants, provided that nothing herein
contained will be construed to prevent such access to persons with whom any Tenant normally deals
in the ordinary course of its business, unless such persons are engaged in illegal or unlawful
activities. No Tenant and no employee or invitee of any Tenant wil! go upon the roof of the
Building.

4, Tenant will not obtain for use on the Premises ice, drinking water, food,
food vendors, beverage, towel or other similar services or accept barbering upon the Premises,
except at such reasonable hours and under such reasonable regulations as may be fixed by Landlord.
Landlord expressly reserves the right to absolutely prohibit solicitation, canvassing, distribution of
handbills or any other-written material,-peddling, sales and-displays of products; -goods and wares in
all portions of the Development except as may be expressly permitted under the Lease. Landlord
reserves the right to restrict and regulate the use of the common areas of the Development and
Building by invitees of Tenants providing services to Tenants on a periodic or daily basis including

81 of 585


--- page 82 ---
food and beverage vendors. Such restrictions may include limitations on time, place, manner and
duration of access to a Tenant's premises for such purposes. Without limiting the foregoing,
Landlord may require that such parties use halls, passageways and stairways for such purposes to
preserve access within the Building for Tenants and the general public.

5, Landlord reserves the right to require Tenants to periodically provide

. Landlord with a written list of any and all business invitees which periodically or regularly provide
goods and services to such Tenants at the premises. Landlord reserves the right to preclude all
vendors from entering or conducting business within the Building and the Development if such
vendors are not listed on a Tenant's list of requested vendors.

6. Landlord will provide a'"card key" access system; however, Landlord shall
not be liable to Tenant or any of Tenant's employees or licensees for losses of any nature due to
theft, burglary or damages or injury caused by unauthorized persons in, on or about the Building or
Premises. Landlord will furnish Tenant, free of charge up to Twenty Six (26) access cards,
Landlord may make a reasonable charge for any additional card keys. Landlord reserves the right to
exclude from the Building between the hours of 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. the following day, or such other
hours as may be established from time to time by Landlord, and on Sundays and legal holidays, any
person unless that person is known to the person or employee in charge of the Building and has a
security badge or is properly identified. Tenant shall be responsible for all persons for whom it
requests security badges and shall be liable to Landlord for all acts of such persons. Landlord shall
not be liable for damages for any error with regard to the admission to or exclusion from the
Building of any person. Landlord reserves the right to prevent access to the Building in case of
invasion, mob, riot, public excitement or other commotion by closing the doors or by other
appropriate action.

7. The directory of the Building or the Development will be provided
exclusively for the display of the name and location of Tenants only and Landlord reserves the right
to exclude any other names therefrom.

8. All cleaning and janitorial services for the Development and the Premises
will be provided exclusively through Landlord, and except with the written consent of Landlord, no
person or persons other than those approved by Landlord will be employed by Tenant or permitted
to enter the Development for the purpose of cleaning the same. Tenant will not cause any
unnecessary labor by carelessness or indifference to the good order and cleanliness of the Premises.

9. Landlord will furnish Tenant, free of charge, with two keys to each door
lock in the Premises. Landlord may make a reasonable charge for any additional keys. Tenant shall
not make or have made additional keys, and Tenant shall not alter any lock or install a new
additional lock or bolt on any door of its Premises. Tenant, upon the termination of its tenancy,
shall deliver to Landlord the keys of all doors which have been furnished to Tenant, and in the event
of loss of any keys so furnished, shall pay Landlord therefore.

-10. _. If Tenant requires telegraphic, telephonic,.burglar alarm, satellite dishes,
antennae or similar services, it will first obtain Landlord's approval, and comply with, Landlord's
reasonable rules and requirements applicable to such services, which shall not include separate -
licensing by, and fees paid to, Landlord.

82 of 585


--- page 83 ---
11, Freight elevator(s) will be available for use without charge by all Tenants in
the Building, subject to such reasonable scheduling as Landlord, in its discretion, deems appropriate.
No equipment, materials, furniture, packages, supplies, merchandise or other property will be
received in the Building or carried in the elevators except between such hours and in such elevators
as may be designated by Landlord. Tenant's initial move in and subsequent deliveries of bulky items,
such as furniture, safes and similar items will, unless otherwise agreed in writing by Landlord, be
made during the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. or on Saturday or Sunday. Deliveries during normal
office hours shall be limited to normal office supplies and other small items. No deliveries will be
made which impede or interfere with other Tenants or the operation of the Building.

12. Tenant will not.place a load upon any floor of the Premises which exceeds
the load per square foot which such floor was designed to carry and which is allowed by law.
Landlord will have the right to reasonably prescribe the weight, size and position of all safes,
heavy equipment, files, materials, furniture or other property brought into the Building. Heavy
objects will, if considered necessary by Landlord, stand on such platforms as determined by
Landlord to be necessary to properly distribute the weight, which platforms will be provided at
Tenant's expense. Business machines and mechanical equipment belonging to Tenant, which
cause noise or vibration that may be transmitted to the structure of the Building or to any space
therein to such a degree as to be objectionable to any Tenants in the Building or Landlord, are to be
placed and maintained by Tenant, at Tenant's expense, on vibration eliminators or other devises
sufficient to eliminate noise or vibration. Tenant will be responsible for all structural engineering
required to determine structural load, as well as the expense thereof. The persons employed to move
such equipment in or out of the Building must be reasonably acceptable to Landlord. Landlord will
not be responsible for loss of, or damage to, any such equipment or other property from any cause,
and all damage done to the Building by maintaining or moving such equipment or other property
will be repaired at the expense of Tenant.

13. Tenant will not use or keep in the Premises any kerosene, gasoline or
inflammable or combustible fluid or material other than those limited quantities necessary for the
operation or maintenance of office equipment. Tenant will not use or permit to be used in the
Premises any foul or noxious gas or substance, or permit or allow the Premises to be occupied or
used in a manner offensive or objectionable to Landlord or other occupants of the Building by
reason of noise, odors or vibrations, nor will Tenant bring into or keep in or about the Premises any
birds or animals except service animals assisting the disabled.

14. Tenant will not use any method of heating or air conditioning other than
that supplied by Landlord without Landlord's prior written consent.

15. Tenant will not waste electricity, water or air conditioning and agrees to
cooperate fully with Landlord to assure the most effective operation of the Building's heating and
air conditioning and to comply with any governmental energy-saving rules, laws or regulations of
which Tenant has actual notice, and will refrain from attempting to adjust controls.

16. Landlord reserves the right, exercisable without notice and without liability
to Tenant, to change the name and street address of the Building. Without the written consent of

83 of 585


--- page 84 ---
Landlord, Tenant will not use the name of the Building or the Development in connection with or
in promoting or advertising the business of Tenant except as Tenant's address.

17. Tenant will close and lock the doors of its Premises and entirely shut off all
water faucets or other water apparatus, and lighting or gas before Tenant and its employees leave
the Premises. Tenant will be responsible for any damage or injuries sustained by other Tenants or
occupants of the Building or by Landlord for noncompliance with this rule.

18. The toilet rooms, toilets, urinals, wash bowls and other apparatus will not
be used for any purpose other than that for which they were constructed and no foreign substance of
any kind whatsoever shall be thrown therein. The expense of any breakage, stoppage or damage
resulting from any violation of this rule will be borne by the Tenant who, or whose employees or
invitees, break this rule. Cleaning of equipment of any type is prohibited. Shaving is prohibited.

19. Tenant will not sell, or permit the sale at retail of newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, theater tickets or any other goods or merchandise to the general public in or on the
Premises. Tenant will not use the Premises for any business or activity other than that specifically
provided for in this Lease. Tenant will not conduct, nor permit to be conducted, either voluntarily
or involuntarily, any auction upon the Premises without first having obtained Landlord's prior
written consent, which consent Landlord may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion.

20. Tenant will not install any radio or television antenna, loudspeaker, satellite
dishes or other devices on the roof(s) or exterior walls of the Building or the Development. Tenant
will not interfere with radio or television broadcasting or reception from or in the Development or
elsewhere.

21, Except for the ordinary hanging of bulletin boards, pictures and wall
decorations, Tenant wil! not mark, drive nails, screw or drill into the partitions, woodwork or plaster
or in any way deface the Premises or any part thereof, except in accordance with the provisions of
the Lease pertaining to alterations. Landlord reserves the right to direct electricians as to where and
how telephone and telegraph wires are to be introduced to the Premises. Tenant will not cut or bore
holes for wires. Tenant will not affix any floor covering to the floor of the Premises in any manner
except as approved by Landlord. Tenant shall repair any damage resulting from noncompliance with
this rule.

22. Tenant will not install, maintain or operate upon the Premises any vending
machines without the written consent of Landlord.

23. Landlord reserves the right to exclude or expel from the Development any
person who, in Landlord's judgment, is intoxicated or under the influence of liquor or drugs or who
is in violation of any of the Rules and Regulations of the Building.

24. Tenant will store all its trash and garbage within its Premises or in other
facilities provided by Landlord. Tenant will not place in any trash box or receptacle any material
which cannot be-disposed of in the ordinary and customary manner of trash and garbage disposal.
All garbage and refuse disposal is to be made in accordance with directions issued from time to time
by Landlord.

84 of 585


--- page 85 ---
25. The Premises will not be used for lodging or for the storage of merchandise
held for sale to the general public, or for lodging or for manufacturing of any kind, nor shall the
Premises be used for any improper, immoral or objectionable purpose. No cooking will be done or
permitted on the Premises without Landlord's consent, except the use by Tenant of Underwriters’
Laboratory approved equipment for brewing coffee, tea, hot chocolate and similar beverages shall
be permitted, and the use of a microwave oven for employees use will be permitted, provided that
such equipment and use is in accordance with all applicable federal, state, county and city laws,
codes, ordinances, rules and regulations.

26. Neither Tenant nor any of its employees, agents, customers and invitees
may use in any space or in the public halls of the Building or the Development any hand truck
except those equipped with rubber tires and side guards or such other material-handling equipment
as Landlord may approve. Tenant will not bring any other vehicles of any kind into the Building.

27. Tenant agrees to comply with all safety, fire protection and evacuation
procedures and regulations established by Landlord or any governmental agency.

28. Tenant assumes any and all responsibility for protecting its Premises from
theft, robbery and pilferage, which includes keeping doors locked and other means of entry to the
Premises closed.

29. To the extent Landlord reasonably deems it necessary to exercise exclusive
control over any portions of the Common Areas for the mutual benefit of the Tenants in the
Building or the Development, Landlord may do so subject to reasonable, non-discriminatory
additional rules and regulations.

30. Landlord prohibits smoking in the Building.

31. Tenant's requirements will be attended to only upon appropriate application
to Landlord's asset management office for the Development by an authorized individual of Tenant.
Employees of Landlord will not perform any work or do anything outside of their regular duties
unless under special instructions from Landlord, and no employee of Landlord will admit any
person (Tenant or otherwise) to any office without specific instructions from Landlord.

32. These Rules and Regulations are in-addition to, and will not be construed to
in any way modify or amend, in whole or in part, the terms, covenants, agreements and conditions
of the Lease. Landlord may waive any one or more of these Rules and Regulations for the benefit
of Tenant or any other Tenant, but no such waiver by Landlord will be construed as a waiver of
such Rules and Regulations in favor of Tenant or any other Tenant, nor prevent Landlord from
thereafter enforcing any such Rules and Regulations against any or all of the Tenants of the
Development.

-33. Landlord reserves the right to make such other and reasonable and non-
discriminatory Rules and Regulations as, in its judgment, may from time to time be needed for
safety and security, for care and Cleanliness of the Development and for the preservation of good
order therein, which will not be construed to in any way modify or amend, in whole or in part, the
terms, covenants, agreements and conditions of the Lease. Tenant agrees to abide by all such Rules
and’ Regulations herein above stated and any additional reasonable and non-discriminatory rules and

5

85 of 585


--- page 86 ---
regulations which are adopted. Tenant is responsible for the observance of all of the foregoing rules
by Tenant's employees, agents, clients, customers, invitees and guests.

B. Parking Rules and Regulations.

The following rules and regulations govern the use of the parking facilities which serve the
Building. Tenant will be bound by such rules and regulations and agrees to cause its employees,
subtenants, assignees, contractors, suppliers, customers and invitees to observe the same:

I, Tenant will not permit or allow any vehicles that belong to or are controlled
by Tenant or Tenant's employees, subtenants, customers or invitees to be loaded, unloaded or
parked in areas other than those designated by Landlord for such activities. No vehicles are to be
left in the parking areas overnight and no vehicles are to be parked in the parking areas other than
normally sized passenger automobiles, motorcycles and pick-up trucks. No extended term storage
of vehicles is permitted.

2. Vehicles must be parked entirely within painted stall lines of a single
parking stall.

3. All directional signs and arrows must be observed.

4, The speed limit within all parking areas shall be five (5) miles per hour.

5. Parking is prohibited: (a) in areas not striped for parking; (b) in aisles or on

ramps; (c) where "no parking" signs are posted; (d) in cross-hatched areas; and (e) in such other
areas as may be designated from time to time by Landlord or Landlord's parking operator.

6. Landlord reserves the right, without cost or liability to Landlord; to tow any
vehicle if such vehicle's audio theft alarm system remains engaged for an unreasonable period of
time. .

7. Washing, waxing, cleaning or servicing of any yehicle in any area not
specifically reserved for such purpose is prohibited.

8. Landlord may refuse to permit any person to park in the parking facilities
who violates these rules with unreasonable frequency, and any violation of these rules shall subject
the violator's car to removal, at such car owner's expense. Tenant agrees to use its best efforts to
acquaint its employees, subtenants, assignees, contractors, suppliers, customers and invitees with
these parking provisions, rules and regulations. .

9. All damage or loss claimed to be the responsibility of Landlord must be
reported, itemized in writing and delivered to the management office located within the
Development within ten (10) business days after any claimed damage or loss occurs. Any claim not
so made.is waived. Landlord is not responsible for damage by water or fire, or for the acts or
omissions of others, or for articles left in vehicles. In any event the total liability of Landlord, if
any, is limited to Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) for all damages or loss to any car. Landlord
is not responsible for loss of use.

86 of 585 |


--- page 87 ---
10. Landlord reserves the right, without cost or liability to Landlord, to tow any
vehicles which are used or parked in violation of these rules and regulations.

11. Landlord reserves the right from time to time to modify and/or adopt such
other reasonable and non-discriminatory rules and regulations for the parking facilities as it deems
reasonably necessary for the operation of the parking facilities. —

87 of 585


--- page 88 ---
EXHIBIT I TO LEASE
OPTION TO RENEW

Renewal Option.

(a) Option. Tenant shall have the right to extend the Term (the "Renewal
Option") with respect to either Suite 320 or Suite 380, or both Suites, for one (1) additional period
of Five (5) Years (the "Renewal Term"). The Renewal Options shall be exercisable if:

(i) Landlord receives written notice of exercise (the "Renewal Notice")
not less than nine (9) full calendar months prior to the Expiration Date and not more than twelve
(12) full calendar months prior to the Expiration Date; and

Gi) Tenant is not in monetary default or material non-monetary default
under the Lease beyond any applicable notice and cure periods at the time that Tenant delivers the
Renewal Notice or at the commencement of the Renewal Term.

(b) Terms Applicable to the Premises During the Renewal Term. The Base Rent
rate per square foot of the rented space within the Premises during the Renewal Term shall be equal
to the Fair Market Rent (hereinafter defined) rate per square foot of the rented space within the
Premises, in accordance with the determination of the Fair Market Rent rate described below. Base
Rent during the Renewal Term shall increase, if at all, in accordance with the increases assumed in
the determination of Fair Market Rent. In no event, however, shal! the Base Monthly Rent for the
Renewal Term be less than the Base Rent for period immediately preceding the Renewal Term.
Except as so provided, all terms of the Lease shall be applicable during the Renewal Term.

(c) Procedure for Determining Fair Market Rent. Within ten (10) business days
after receipt of a Renewal Notice, Landlord shall notify Tenant in writing of Landlord's

determination of the Fair Market Rent ("Landlord's FMR"). Within ten (10) days after Tenant's
receipt of Landlord’s FMR, Tenant shall either accept Landlord's FMR or proceed to negotiate with
Landlord in good faith to reach an equitable determination of the Fair Market Rent. If Landlord and
Tenant are unable to agree on the Fair Market Rent within thirty (30) days after Tenant's receipt of
Landlord's FMR, Tenant shall have the right elect to have the Fair Market Rent determined in
accordance with the appraisal procedure set forth below. The failure of Tenant to provide written
notice of its election under the preceding sentence shall be deemed a rejection of Landlord's FMR,
in which case it shall be deemed an election to have the Fair Market Rent determined by appraisal
as set forth in this "Exhibit I". The election (or deemed election) by Tenant under this Section shall
be non-revocable and binding on the parties.. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have the
right to request in writing prior to delivering the Renewal Notice Landlord's good faith opinion of
FMR, which Landlord shall respond to within fifteen (15) days without obligating Tenant to
exercise its Renewal Option.

(d) Appraisers. If Tenant has elected to have the Fair Market Rent determined
by an appraisal, then within ten (10) days after Tenant's deemed election or Landlord’s receipt of
Tenant's written notice of such an election, each party, by giving written notice to the other party,

8

88 of 585


--- page 89 ---
shall appoint an appraiser to render a written opinion of the Fair Market Rent for the Renewal Term.
Each appraiser must be a member of the Appraisal Institute of America (MAI) for at least five (5)
years and with at least five (5) years experience in the appraisal of rental rates of office buildings in
the area in which the Building is located and otherwise unaffiliated with either Landlord or Tenant.
The two appraisers shall render their written opinion of the Fair Market Rent for the Renewal Term
to Landlord and Tenant within thirty (30) days after the appointment of the second appraiser. If the
Fair Market Rent of each appraiser is within five percent (5%) of each other, then the average of the
two appraisals of Fair Market Rent shal! be the Fair Market Rent for the Renewal Term. If one party
does not appoint its appraiser as provided above, then the one appointed shall determine the Fair
Market Rent. The Fair Market Rent so determined under this Section shall be binding on Landlord
and Tenant.

(e) Third Appraiser. If the Fair Market Rent determined by the appraisers is
more than five percent (5%) apart, then the two appraisers shall pick a third appraiser within ten
(10) days after the two appraisers have rendered their opinions of Fair Market Rent as provided
above. If the two appraisers are unable to agree on the third appraiser within said ten (10) day
period, Landlord and Tenant shall mutually agree on the third appraiser within ten (10) days
thereafter and if the parties fail to agree within said time period, then at the request of either
Landlord or Tenant, such third appraiser shall be promptly appointed by the then Presiding Judge of
the Superior Court of the State of California for the County where the Premises are located. The
third appraiser shall be a person who has not previously acted in any capacity for either party and
must meet the qualifications stated above.

(f} Impartial Appraisal. Within thirty (30) days after its appointment, the third
appraiser (the "Third Appraiser") shall select either Landlord's or Tenant's appraisal of Fair Market
Rent as the Fair Market Rent for the Renewal Term. The Third Appraiser may not state his or her ,
own opinion of Fair Market Rental, but is strictly limited to the selection of Landlord's or Tenant's
appraisal of Fair Market Rent. The Third Appraiser shall have the right to consult experts and
competent authorities with factual information or evidence pertaining to a determination of Fair
Market Rent, but any such consultation shall be made’in the presence of both parties with full right
to cross examine. The Third Appraiser shall have no right to propose a middle ground or any
modification of either of the proposed valuations, and shall have no power to modify the provisions
of the Lease, as amended hereby. The valuation so chosen by the Third Appraiser shall be final and
binding upon the parties, absent fraud or gross error. -

(g) Fair Market Rent. As used herein, the term "Fair Market Rent" shall mean
the then prevailing rental rate for comparable Class A office space under primary lease (and not
sublease) to tenants located in San Mateo on the Hwy 92/101, taking into consideration: (i) the
location of the premises; (ii) such amenities as the extent and quality of existing improvements; (111)
Tenant improvement allowances, free rent or any other inducements or concessions then being
offered for the lease of offices in the vicinity of the Premises (iv) reserved parking and (v) signage.
As used herein, the term "then-prevailing” shall mean the time period which is three (3) months
prior to the commencement of the Renewal Term and not the commencement date of the Renewal
Term,“ 7 mo pe

Appraisal Costs: Each party shall bear the cost of its own appraiser and one-half (1/2) the cost of
the Third Appraiser.
9

89 of 585


--- page 90 ---
ORIGINAL

FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT
Property Address; 1900 O'Farrell Street
San Mateo, California .

This Fitst Amendmeat to Lease Agteement (this “Amendment”), dated for teference purposes February
17, 2015, is incorporated into and made a part of that certain Standard Office Lease (“Lease Agteement”)
dated May 19, 2014 between Woodstock Development, Inc., a California corporation (“Landlotd”) and
the City of San Mateo, a municipal corpotation of the State of California (“Tenant”) for that certain real
estate known and described as 1900 O'Farrell Street, Suites 320 and 380, in the City of San Mateo, County
of San Mateo , State of California (the “Property”).

In the event of any conflict between the tetms of the Lease Agreement and the terms of this Amendment,
the terms of this Amendment shall prevail.

RECITALS
WEEREAS, on ot about May 19, 2014, Landlord and Tenant executed the Lease Agreement;

WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease Agreement the Premises consisted of apptoximately
6,975 rentable square feet, and further described as Suite 320 consisting of approximately 5,460 rentable
square feet, and Suite 380 consisting of approximately 1,515 rentable squate feet.

WHEREAS, Tenant wishes to expand the Premises to include that certain space commonly
known as Suite 325, consisting of approximately 4,400. rentable square feet and surrender to Landlord
Suite 380 and Landlord is willing to grant Teriant’s request.

WHEREAS, ‘Tenant also wishes to extend the Term of the Lease and Landlord is willing to grant
such tequest.

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
ate hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agtee to amend the Lease Agreement as follows:

AMENDMENT ' 'T'O LEASE AGREEMENT

1. Defined Terms: All defined tetms as used in this Amendment shall have the same meanings as set
forth in the Lease Agreement, unless otherwise set forth expressly herein.

2. Fiffective Date of Amendment: Upon the rutual execution and delivery of this First Amendment,

3. Sustender of Suite 380, On ot before February 27, 2015 (the “380 Surrender Date”), Tenant shall
sutrender Suite 380 to Landlotd, in accordance with Paragraph 13.1 of the Lease Agreement.

4. Exclusive Temporary License. Landlord grants to Tenant an exclusive license (the “License”) for
access and storage of Tenant’s furniture, fixtures, and equipment (the “FF&E”) in the Gym Facility (the
“Gym” located on the thitd 3“) floor of the Building, The term of the License shall commence on
Februaty 27, 2015 (the “Commencement Date”) and expite on March 4, 2015 (the “Expiration Date”),
Tenant shall store its FF&E, in the Gym at its sole tisk and Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant for any
loss ot damage to the FF&E, On or before the Expitation Date Tenant shall remove the FF&E from the
Lease Amendment

Rey. 02/03/15
Page. 1 of 8

90 of 585


--- page 91 ---
' Gym and tepatr any damage caused by the storing ot removal of the FF&E. from the Gym. In the event
that “Tenant fails to timely surrender the Gym back to Landlord Tenant shall pay to Landlord the sum of
$500.00 pet day until it surrenders possession back to Landlord.

5, ‘The Expansion Space — Suite 325.

4.

Lease Amendment
Rey. 02/03/15
Page 2 of 8

Delivery of the Excpansion Space, On or before April 1, 2015 (the “Delivery Date’), Landlord
shall deliver to ‘Tenant that certain space commonly known as Suite 325 consisting of
approximately 4,400 rentable square feet (the “Expansion Space”). Landlord shall not be
liable to Tenant ot otherwise be in default under this Lease if Landlord is unable to deliver
the Expansion Space to Tenant on the projected Delivery Date due to the failure of any
othet tenant to timely vacate and suttender to landlord the Expansion Space ot any portion
of it, Landlord agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to enforce its tight to
possession of the Expansion Space against such other tenant.

i, Hartly Access. If the Expansion Space is available on March 2, 2015, and so long as
Tenant does not interfere with the performance of Landlord’s Improvements, as
hereinafter defined, Tenant may access and occupy that portion of the Expansion
Space outlined on Exhibit C (the “Early Access Space”), for the purpose of
installing witing, cabling and the conduct of Tenant’s business. Access and
occupancy of such Eatly Access Space shall be at Tenant’s sole risk and Tenant
agtees to vacate the Early Access Space if requested/requited to do so prlot to
completion of Landlord’s Work.

Terms and Conditions Applicable to the Expansion Space. Beginning of the Delivery Date and
continue for the balance of the Lease Tetm (including any extensions), the Expansion
Space shall be part of the Premises under this Lease (so that the term “Premises” in this
Lease shall refer to Suite 320 plus the Expansion Space and shall consist of approximately
9,860 rentable squate feet. Tenant’s lease of the Expansion Space shall be on the same
terms and conditions as affect Suite 320 from time to time. From and after the Delivery
Date the Monthly Base Rent shall be as set forth in Patagtaph 6, below. Upon the
Delivery Date Exhibit A to the Lease [Diagtam of Premises] shall be replaced with a
revised form of Diagram of Premises, attached hereto as Exhibit A, and incorporated by
this reference.

As-Is Condition. Tenant shall lease the Expansion Space in its “as-is” condition, except that
Landlord shall construct those improvements set forth on Exhibit B, attached heteto and
incorporated by this reference.

The Expansion Premises have not undetgone an inspection by a Certified Access
Specialist.

Sesurity Deposit. Upon the Effective Date Tenant shall pay to Landlord the sum of Ten
Thousand Five Hundted Five and 53/100 Dollars ($10,505.53) as additional secutity for
Tenant’s full and faithful performance of its obligations undet the Lease. Upon teceipt of
the Additional Deposit the Parties acknowledge that the amount of the Security Deposit
held by Landlord is ‘Thisty ‘Iwo Thousand One Hundted Seventy ‘Three and 78/100
Dollats ($32,173.78).

91 of 585



--- page 92 ---
e. Parking, Upon the Delivery Date Tenant’s pro-tata share of Parking shall be increased to a
total of twenty-nine (29) parking stalls, of which twenty (20) shall be allocated to the 2"
floor surface lot, and the remaining nine (9) stalls shall be allocated to the ground level
covered parking garage.

£. Confirmation of Terms. Landlotd and ‘Tenant shall, within fourteen (14) days after Landlotd’s

delivery of the Expansion Space to Tenant, confirm in wilting the addition of the

Expansion Space to the Premises on the terms and conditions set forth in this section.
The written confirmation shall confirm:

i. The actual Delivery Date,
ii, The term Expiration Date;
tii, Tenant’s Protata Share of 16.1%;
iv. The Base Rent Commencement Date for the Expansion Space; and
v. Any other tetm that either patty teasonably request be confirmed with tespect to
the Expansion Space.

In no event shall any failure or refusal of either Landlord ot Tenant to execute such
confirmation affect the rights and obligations of Landlord and Tenant with respect to the

Expansion Space.

6. Extension of Lease Term, Commencing on April 1, 2015 the Tern of the Lease shall be
extended to Match 31, 2020 (the Expiration Date).

7. Base Monthly Rent. Commencing on Match 1, 2015, Base Monthly Rent shall be as follows:

March 1-31, 2015 $16,926.00

April 1 - 30, 2015 $30,169.00

May 1, 2015 — March 31, 2016 $31,915.00 per month
Apzxil 1, 2016 — March 31, 2017 $32,901.00 per month
April 1, 2017 ~ March 31, 2018 $33,817.25 per month
April 1, 2018 — March 31, 2019 $34,901.85 per month
April 1, 2019 — March 31 2020 $35,916.70 per month

8. Option to Renew. ‘The phtase “swith respect to either 320 or Suite 380, or both Suites” is stricken from
Patagtaph (a) of Exhibit I, the “Option to Renew” so that the provision shall appeat as follows: :

“(a), Option, Tenant shall have the right to extend the Tetm (the “Renewal Option”) for one
(1) additional petiod of Five (5) Years (the “Renewal Term”). The Renewal Options shall be
exercisable if...”

9. Representations and Wartanties. ‘Tenant hereby represents, warrants, and agtees that: (a) there
exists no breach, default, or event of default by Landlord under the Lease, ot any event of condition
which, with notice ot passage of time or both, would constitute a breach, default, ot event of default by
Landlord under the Lease; (b) the Lease contitues to be a legal, valid, and binding agreement and
obligation of Tenant; and (c) Tenant has no current offset or defense to its performance or obligations
under the Lease. Tenant hetehy waives and teleases all demands, charges, claims, accounts, ot causes of
Lease Amendment

Rev, 04/03/15
Page 3 of 8

92 of 585


--- page 93 ---
action of any nature whatsoever apainst Landlord or Landlord's membets, officers, employees or agents,
including without limitation, both known and unknown, demands, charges, claims, accounts, and causes of
action that have previously arisen out of or in connection with the Lease.

10. Counterparts, ‘This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which, when so
executed shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts together shall constitute and be one and
the same instrument. The parties agtee that if the signature of any patty to this Amendment is not an
otiginal, but is a digital, mechanical o electronic xeproduction (such as, but not limited to, a photocopy,
fax, e-mail, PDF, Adobe image, JPEG, telegram, telex or telecopy), then such digital, mechanical ot
electronic reproduction shall be as enforceable, valid and binding as, and the legal equivalent to, an
authentic and traditional ink-on-paper original wet signature penned manually by its signatory.

11. Affiemation: Except to the extent modified herein, all terms and conditions of the Lease

Agreement shall remain unchanged.

LANDLORD:

Woodstock Development, Inc., a California
corporation

By: %
Name Printed: Kirk C. 8
Title: President

Date: February SE , 2015

Lease Amendment
Rev. 02/03/15
Page 4 of 8

TENANT:

City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of
the State of Califqrnia

By:
Name Printed:
Title: City Manager

Abpyowed as to wa DA Manayor

ian

Naine Printed: Caio A. Arellano
Title: Assistant City Attorney

Date: February i? 2015

93 of 585



--- page 94 ---
Exhibit A
Diagram of Premises

DEMOLITION PLAN

OPEN OFFICE || REMOVE (&

UPPER OASINET

RECEPTION

OPRICE OFFICE

NORTH

4 DEMOLITION FLOOR PLAN [A
SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0”

Lease Amendment
Rev, 02/03/15
Page 5 of 8

94 of 585

ee


--- page 95 ---
rere!
1

{N} CARPET |

OFFICE
{N} CARPET

irsal

qi-a"
| ™ a
acai ind
1 vor

i ]
5 (2 piocenat

{N} CARPET +"

HALLWAY cH

OPEN OFFICE
(N CARPET

WITH MGION PANEL”

OFFICE
<M) GARPET

OPEN OFFICE
{N CARPET

CONF RM
(NM GARPET

ee |
— CS fi fH
bed! _ re |
fy a |
=

NORTH

PROPOSED FLOOR PLAN

Lease Amendment
Rev, 02/03/15
Page 6 of 8

95 of 585



--- page 96 ---
Exhibit B
Landlord's Improvements

Por the benefit of Tenant Landlozd shall construct certain improvements in the Premises penetally
described as demolition and construction of walls and fixtutes, including all affected electrical and
mechanical equipment; new paint and carpet, and installation of new cabinetry in the kitchen area
(“Landlord’s Improvements”); generally depicted below, and shown in Exhibit A and further desctibed on
that certain project bid dated February 3rd, 2015, prepared by All Bay Conttactors Inc and attached hereto
as Exhibit B-1.

Landlord’s Improvements shall be performed by licensed contractors, in good and workmanlike mannet
and shall comply with all applicable Laws, including, but not limited to Chapter 3.61 Prevailing Wages of
the San Mateo Municipal Code, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, state building codes (24
CCR), as adopted and modified by the City of San Mateo, and contained in Title 23 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code, and if required by the applicable regulatory body, Title 24.,

Following Substantial Completion of Landloid’s Imptovements. Tenant will reimburse Landlord within
thirty (30) days of written request from Landlord, the hard and soft costs, petmitting fees and approvals,
construction management fees, incutred by Landlord in the construction of Landlotd’s Improvements.to
the extent such costs exceed Fifty Two Thousand Five Hundted Twenty-six Dollars ($52,526.00)_(the
“Tenant Improvement Allowance”), Landlord will also make available to Tenant and additional allowance
of up to Six Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($6,500.00) specifically for any fire and life safety upgrades
pertaining to the relocation of any horns or strobe lights within the Pretmises (the “ite Life Safety
Allowance”). The Fire Life Safety Allowance, if used, will be paid by Tenant to Landlord upon
presentment of a final invoice from Landlord.

Tenant expressly acknowledges that the ‘Tenant Improvement Allowance will not be sufficient to pay all of
the costs of construction of Landlord’s Improvements.

For purposes of this Exhibit B, “Substantial Completion” shall occur upon the completion of construction
of Landlord’s Improvements. in the Premises pursuant to the Februaty 3rd, 2015_bid, with the exception
of any punch list items. .

Lease Amendment
Rev, 02/03/15
Page 7 of 8

96 of 585


--- page 97 ---
EXHIBIT B-1

ABY All Bay PROPOSAL: 004960 DATE: 01/12/15
— Contractors, Inc. 1900 O'Farrell - 325D
43233 Osgood Rd. Fremont GA 9453? ;
Phone: (680) 298-0877 # Fox (660) 298-0580 REY Ones

CLIENT: 944 PROJECT: 41133
Woodstock Development 1900 O'Farrell - 325B
Willlam Syme 650.576, 4236 Suite 325 Ti
330 Pririose Road 1900 O'Farrell Street
Burlingame, CA 94010 San Mateo, CA 94402

eT
Thank you for the opportunity to bid this project. Our proposal Includes only the items listed below. Additional work
will be performed upon approval! of “Additional Work Authorization".

Alternate; Not included in base proposal
1) Fire life safety - allowance; $6,500.00

Not included;

1) Cleaning of registers
2) New door hardware

3) Above ceiling repairs ;

A) Building or fire department requirements

5) ADA improvement

6) Title 24 lighting controls (prise can range from $8 ~ $10 per square foot)

7) Fire sprinklers

8) Any work not listed below

DIRECT JOB EXPENSE

General Gonditlons - Insurance______.__......-....---..--.-------+--------------- eee 5,098
Permit Fee Allowance......_.....------_-------- we ee ee ee ee eee eee 2,000
Other Fees ~ NIC. . dak = vets caer we ee ee er ne a ae

Project Manager. -_---...----------- 2 ee enn ne nn ne en ne ene ee 542
Supervision. __...-..--.---.-.-------------------- === $= ene ee en eee 1,445
Project Close Out ________------ 22-2 en n-ne - ee en ene re 223
Architect Fees .....000 200... 0 eee en nn nn nn eee 3,000
Progressive & Final Clean Up._...-_-.--.-----~-----.-+----- dene ee ee 1,360

Not Including Windows

97 of 585



--- page 98 ---
004960

Clean Windows & Blinds
New Item 1-29-15

DEMOLTION/SITE WORK

Demolition - Dump Fees.
1) Wall demo
2) Doors and sidelights
3) Flooring
4) Limited ceiling demo
5} Millwork
6) Debris clean up and haul off»
7) Dust control and protection
8) Demo additional office 1-9-15

ADA Improvements
20% of New Construction
New Construction = $34,320.00 x 20% = $6,864.00

CARPENTRY

Cabinetwork.
1) New upper & Lower ADA cabinets added 1-9-15
2) Delivered to site by D&L, installed by ABCI

THERM/MOIST PROTECT

Insulation
1) Insulate new walls added 1-9-15

DOORS & WINDOWS
Doors/Glass _

1) Save (2) side lights to Include glass, vinyl, and frames
2) Move to storage location
3) Relocate 3 doors & frames added 1-9-15

New Item 1-29-15
1} (2) Single light French doors In existing frame

FINISHES

Framing/Drywall
1} Patch at Demo
2} Conference roon and offlce wall added 1-9-15
3} Fill opening in corridor added 1-9-15
4) Build soffit at area transitlon

Fill in Door in Hall
1) Price includes a $600.00 wall paper patch allowance

Acoustical Ceilings
1) Minor grid repalr
2) Install new tile as needed
3) Calling seismic upgrade not included

98 of 585

Page 2
01/12/15


--- page 99 ---
ne Nt
Page 3
004960 O25

Floor Covering... .------------ -- eee en nn nn en er ne ne 18,564
Based on 3,740 SF
1} 445 SY carpet tile (Shaw Transparent) @ $30.00 per yard $13,350.00
2) 4" Rubber base $1,780.00 an
3) Price subject to field verification an

idea Paint-Wall Prep-Trays .._._...--.----------------------- +2 0-5-2 nen nee ee oe 1 |
New Item 1-29-15 Delete 2-3-15 sy
1) Trays to be full wall length

Interior Palnt._..-.... 0.22022 - ene ee en en nnn ee eee 7,816
1) Painting using ZERO VOC low odor paints
2) Protect surfaces that do not paint
3) Prep & paint existing walls to remain
4) Door & sidelite frames not included
5) Walls added 1-9-15
N.1.C.: Paint te doors, OT

SPECIALTIES
Signs - NIC ___ 22 - een nn ene nn en ee ee

FURNISHINGS
Window Covering - NIC_.._--.-..------.-~------------~------ pe niered os ras nae Foes Same nem Pee lew =
Window Film - NIC... -.. 2-0-2. 02 ---- ee ee = 2 een on mente ee ee a eon em OR es

MECHANICAL

Plumbing ___-__----__..----.--------------------------------------------- wenn ae eee 3,499
1) Terminations at break room :
2) New ADA sink added 1-9-15
3) No dishwasher included
4) (1) Disposer - New item 1-29-15

HVAC - Remount Exist. T-Stats .---..--- ee ee ee te eee 759

Fire Sprinklers - No Work ____.-_.--------------------------------------------------+------
1) Evaluate after demo : Po

Fire Alarm System - Allowance... 2. 00 ee nn ee
Design Plans Permits Devices
1} See alternate 1 above ; |

ELECTRICAL

Electrical... enn wee ee 7,114 : |
1) Keep lights In existing locations |
2) Rewire lights to existing switching
3) no new power
4) No Title 24
5) Safe-off at demo
6) New office and conference roam added 1-9-15

|
Electrical - New Her 1-29-15... en eee 553
Disposer Switch/Power .
|

99 of 585


--- page 100 ---
Page 4
004960 ; 0112/15

Electrical - New Item 1-29-15. _..00000002.0--20 00 - eee 4,892
_(1) (5) Furniture partition circuits from pane! L3A - At

Electrical... ee nee ne 7,663
New Items 1-29-15
4) Power & data @ 56" AFF in (2} conference rooms
2) (7) 110 Volt out lets
3) (11) Data ring & string
4) Clrcult above from Sulte 320 panel

Telecommunications - No Work.

FEE
Contractor Fee. === = eee eee 3,059

TOTAL BID: . $105,154

Signed: ly af ¢ Approved For Contract:
ABCI Client
Date: 01/12/15 Date:

Title: President Title:

100 of 585


--- page 101 ---
Exhibit C
The Early Access Space

7
52

Lease Amendment
Rey. 02/03/15

Page 8 of 8

101 of 585


--- page 102 ---
Fiscal Year 15/16 Lease Costs:

General Engineering PMO

5460 SF 4400 SF

10-4662-01-5221 469981-46000-1884-18151 TOTAL
es

Rent July 2015 S 17,417.40 | $ 14,497.60 | $ 31,915.00
August 2015 S 17,417.40 | $ 14,497.60 | $ 31,915.00
eptember 2015 17,417.40 14,497.60 | $ 31,915.00

5 5

S 17,417.40 | $ 14,497.60
November 2015 5 17,417.40 | $ 14,497.60

S $

S

December 2015 17,417.40 14,497.60
anuary 2016
February 2016
March 2016
April 2016

TOTAL $ 210,646.80 $ 175,291.20 $ | 385,938.00

2 a
< [o)
tN >
oO oD
ray =
a N

So

ut

une 2016

102 of 585


--- page 103 ---
103 of 585


--- page 104 ---
SECOND AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE
Property Address: 1900 O’Farrell Street
San Mateo, California

This Second Amendment to Lease Agreement (this “Amendment”) is made as of September 16, 2019,
between Woodstock Development, Inc., a California corporation, as manager and agent for the Owner
(“Landlord”) and City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of the State of California (“Tenant”).

RECITALS

A. On May 19, 2014, Landlord and Tenant entered into an Office Lease for the Premises
located at 1900 O’Farrell Street, San Mateo, CA, Suites 320 & 380, further described in
Section | of the Lease Agreement.

B. Under the terms of the First Amendment dated February 17, 2015, Tenant expanded into
Suite 325 and surrendered Suite 380.

C. Tenant desires to extend the term of the Lease, and Landlord and Tenant hereby amend the
Lease as Follows:

AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT

1. TERM: The term of the lease shall be extended for Sixty (60) months commencing on April
1, 2020 and ending on March 31, 2025.

2. BASE RENT: Monthly Base Rent shall be amended as follows:

Months 01-12 $ 43,099.25
Months 13-24 $ 44,392.23

Months 25-36 $ 45,723.99
Months 37-48 $ 47,095.71

Months 49-60 $ 48,508.59

3. PREMISES: Suites 320 & 325 of the Building located at 1900 O’Farrell Street in the City of
San Mateo (“City”), County of San Mateo (“County”), State of California (“State”) (the
“Premises”). The Premises contains approximately 10,141 square feet of rentable area on the
Third Floor. Per the 2018 BOMA Re-measurement. The Building contains approximately
61,443 square feet of rentable area.

Tenant’s Prorata Share: 16.5%

4. PARKING: Under this Second Amendment, Twelve (12) of tenants allotted Twenty-Nine
(29) unreserved parking spaces shall be allocated to the ground level covered parking garage.
Seventeen (17) unreserved parking spaces shall be allocated to the 2" floor surface lot.

104 of 585


--- page 105 ---
105 of 585


--- page 106 ---
LEASE REMAINS IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS SECOND
AMENDMENT TO OFFICE LEASE, THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE OFFICE LEASE

SHALL REMAIN UNCHANGED.

LANDLORD

Woodstock Development, Inc.

TENANT

City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation
of the State of California

By:

_—

Name: Brad B. Underwood

pate_Gjiaiq

106 of 585


--- page 107 ---
107 of 585


--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9286
TO:
  City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Grant Program — Budget Allocation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $293,103 of Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) grant program funds into the 
fiscal year 2024-2025 operating budget.
BACKGROUND:
Permanent Local Housing Allocation Grant Program
The Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) grant program provides a permanent source of funding to all local 
governments in California to help cities and counties implement plans to increase housing affordability. PLHA is a flexible 
funding source administered by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) that can be 
used for a wide range of activities, from increasing the housing supply to providing supportive services. 
As PLHA revenue is derived from real estate transactions, the amount of funding fluctuates from year to year, and 
jurisdictions are required to reapply annually for their allocation. In addition, to receive funds, a jurisdiction must adopt a 
five-year plan (Five-Year Plan) to allocate its PLHA spending. To date, the City has received three years of PLHA allocations, 
totaling $1,458,103: $341,894 in the first year (FY 21-22); $531,409 in the second year (FY 22-23); and $584,800 in the 
third year (FY 23-24).
The City submitted its Five-Year Plan as part of its first application for funds and has subsequently amended it annually to 
reflect available PLHA funding and City priorities. It was most recently amended in May 2024. This amendment reflected 
the substantially lower amount of funding in year four compared to previous years. 
On May 6, 2024, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 33 (2024), authorizing staff to reapply to the State for the fourth-
year allocation and approving an amendment to its Five-Year Plan. The budget for the PLHA fourth-year allocation included 
in the May 6, 2024, Agenda Report was based on the estimate of $293,103, as follows:
PLHA Year 4 Budget 
Amount 
LifeMoves (Rapid Rehousing) 
$181,907 
BRIDGE Housing (Montara) 
$61,541 
HIP Housing 
$20,000 
Samaritan House (Safe Harbor Emergency Shelter) 
$15,000 
City Administration 
$14,655 
Total 
$293,103 
108 of 585

--- page 109 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The City received its fourth-year allocation award letter from HCD on October 8, 2024 in the amount of $293,103. The 
Standard Agreement with HCD will be subsequently amended to reflect the additional funds. To receive the funds from 
HCD, the final step staff must take is to submit the Request for Funds (RFF), which includes a detailed description of the 
above-mentioned organizations and activities with their respective funding amounts. 
The attached Resolution (Attachment 1) appropriates $293,103 in PLHA funds into the City’s FY 2024-25 operating budget. 
BUDGET IMPACT: 
The PLHA grant funding is allocated to Fund 280 in the City’s Operating Budget. Since the exact dollar amount varies 
annually, based upon the collection of the real estate recording fees, the final allocation amount each year can also vary. 
For the five-year planning period, the total estimated dollar amount the City will receive is approximately $2,051,364.  The 
attached Resolution appropriating the funds for the fourth-year allocation in the amount of $293,103 adds this amount to 
the FY 2024-25 operating budget.  
 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION: 
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Appropriation Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Rachel Horst, Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
rhorst@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
109 of 585

--- page 110 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROPRIATE $293,103 FROM NEW PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION ENTITLEMENT FUNDS INTO 
OPERATING BUDGET FOR 2024-25 
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, The California Department of Housing and Community Development has made available 
$293,103 in the Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA) Fund to be used to increase housing affordability.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
In accordance California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), an 
appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment.
2.
A budget appropriation from the Permanent Local Housing Allocation Grant entitlement fund to the 
PLHA Fund operating budget for fiscal year 2024-25 is approved in the amount of $293,103. 
110 of 585

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2312
File ID: 24-9265
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Professional Labor Relation Service — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a three-year agreement with IEDA for professional labor relation services in the amount of $92,466 in year one, 
$96,624 in year two and $100,269 in year three for a cumulative total amount of $289,359.00.
BACKGROUND:
IEDA provides professional labor relation services to negotiate on behalf of the City for all its labor contracts. IEDA staff is 
comprised of a highly skilled negotiator who has the knowledge and expertise in public sector labor relations and is 
familiar with the City’s associations and unions process. IEDA has represented the City in several rounds of labor 
negotiations with success at building harmonious relationships with labor. The Human Resources Department continues to 
partner with IEDA to meet its labor relation needs to negotiate labor contracts, respond to grievances, and present before 
Council and the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB) as needed. HR requests approval of the three-year agreement 
with IEDA to conduct professional labor relation services in the amount of $289,359.00. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The labor relations services conducted by IEDA are paid for by the labor relations department and there is sufficient 
funding within the department budgets to cover the additional costs.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – IEDA Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
111 of 585

--- page 112 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 1
AGREEMENT WITH IEDA
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR
EMPLOYEE AND LABOR RELATIONS NEGOTIATIONS AND CONSULTING
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ______________, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California (“CITY”), and 
Industrial Employers and Distributors Association (IEDA), a non‐profit corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), 
whose address is 2200 Powel Street, Suite 1000, Emeryville, CA 94608.
RECITALS:
A. CITY desires certain Employee and Labor Relations (ELR) Negotiations and Consulting 
services hereinafter described.
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these ELR Negotiations and 
Consulting services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 ‐ SCOPE OF SERVICES
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 ‐ DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement. CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.
SECTION 3 ‐ DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
112 of 585

--- page 113 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 2
SECTION 4 ‐ TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on January 1, 2025 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2027.
SECTION 5 ‐ PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a not‐to‐exceed fee 
in an amount of $289,359.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 ‐ TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation.
SECTION 7 ‐ OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 ‐ CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 ‐ INTEREST OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
113 of 585

--- page 114 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 3
SECTION 10 ‐ CONSULTANT'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 ‐ INDEMNITY
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
SECTION 12 ‐ INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 13 ‐ NON‐ASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of Stacey Cue, 
President of CONSULTANT and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT 
without the prior written consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 ‐ RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
114 of 585

--- page 115 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 4
SECTION 15 ‐ WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 ‐ SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 17 ‐ COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 ‐ NON‐DISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 19 ‐ MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed‐upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once
115 of 585

--- page 116 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 5
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 ‐ LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 21 ‐ NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Yumi Maeda
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONSULTANT:
IEDA
Attn: Stacey Cue
2200 Powell Street, Suite 1000
Emeryville, CA 94608
SECTION 22 ‐ AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT.
SECTION 23 ‐ AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement. Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party.
116 of 585

--- page 117 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 6
SECTION 24 ‐ GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
117 of 585

--- page 118 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and IEDA have executed this Agreement the day 
and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Aracelia Esparza
Human Resources Director
Stacey Cue
Its Authorized Agent 
President
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Bahar Abdollahi 
Assistant City Attorney
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:
Fee Rates
Exhibit C:
Insurance Requirements
118 of 585

--- page 119 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 8
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES
1.
Assist Human Resources in advising and consulting with the City Council and the City Manager 
on matters relating to employer‐employee relations. This includes in‐person and other consultations 
with Human Resources as deemed necessary by Human Resources personnel, including, but not 
limited to:
•
Meet with designated staff to define management goals and policy for labor negotiations;
•
Provide research and consultation on current trends, practices and community standards of 
other public employers on a variety of labor related issues;
•
Meet with designated staff to assist in formulating the management proposals for 
negotiations;
•
Participate in drafting proposals for negotiations;
•
Perform necessary fact research for negotiations;
•
Provide progress reports, make recommendations, and receive direction;
•
Provide consultation and assistance with grievance handling, disciplinary appeals, and other 
conflict resolution procedures;
•
Provide consultation and assistance with determining questions of scope of bargaining and 
bargaining obligations; and
•
Provide employee/labor relations training as needed.
2.
Meet and confer in good faith for and on behalf of the City, as the designated representative of 
the City Manager, with representatives of recognized employee organizations of the City of San Mateo, 
including, but not limited to:
•
Attend negotiation sessions as the City’s lead negotiator;
•
Serve as spokesperson for situational meetings and conferences as they arise, including, but 
not limited to, the impact of layoffs, statutory changes, pension modification, work 
schedule changes, revisions of departmental rules and staffing guidelines.
•
Act as the City’s management advisor in mediation, impasse proceedings, fact‐finding, 
arbitration and related procedures.
119 of 585

--- page 120 ---
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Page 9
3.
Assist Human Resources in reporting to the City Council and the City Manager on the progress 
of meeting and conferring in good faith with each of the recognized employee organizations.
4.
Present before the Public Employment Relations Board.
120 of 585

--- page 121 ---
Page 10
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Exhibit B
COST
Although IEDA does not offer an hourly rate, IEDA's proposed fees are based on a formula using 
a per capita monthly fee for the number of employees in representation units. This method of 
charging for services is consistent with IEDA's philosophy regarding the importance of continuity 
of service delivery in labor relations. In addition, the City's costs are equalized over time 
irrespective of fluctuations in the number of actual hours of services provided.
Based on the total number of employees (600) provided in the Request for Proposal, the annual 
fee for services would be as follows:
Year 1:
January 1, 2025 through June 30, 2025
$45,108.00
July 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025
$47,358.00
Total=$ 92,466.00
Year 2:
January 1, 2026 through June 30, 2026
$47,358.00
July 1, 2026 through December 31, 2026
$49,266.00
Total= $ 96,624.00
Year 3:
January 1, 2027 through June 30, 2027
$49,266.00
July 1, 2027 through December 31, 2027
$51,003.00
Total=$ 100,269.00
Total for 3 years: $ 289,359.00
*based on the FTE of 600 employees
121 of 585

--- page 122 ---
Page 11
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
 
IEDA EXPLANATION OF COMPUTATION OF FEES 
PUBLIC SECTOR
July 1, 2024
DEFINITIONS
Formula Employees: All full-time employees and full-time equivalent employees (FIE) of the 
agency who are represented by a union or employee organization with which, on behalf of the 
agency, IEDA expects to negotiate and/or administer memoranda of understanding, whether or 
not those employees are themselves members of the union or employee organization.
Full-Time Equivalent Employees: The number of full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) is 
determined by dividing the total number of part time hours by 2080.
Major Memorandum of Understanding: Any memorandum of understanding that covers 100 or 
more employees.
COMPUTATION
IEDA rate increases go into effect on July 1 of each year. For Year One of this proposal starting 
January 1, 2025 the calculation shall be as follows:
Cost Year One:
January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2025: 
First 6 Months: First 450 employees@ $15.85 ea.
=$ 7,132.50 
Remaining 150 of 600@$2.57 ea.
= $
385.50
Monthly Total
= $ 7,518.00
6 Times Monthly Total
=$ 45,108.00
Months 7-12
First 450 employees@ $16.64 ea.
=$ 7,488.00
Remaining 150 of 600 @ $2.70
=$
405.00
Monthly Total
6 Times Monthly Total
=$ 7,893.00
=$ 47,358.00
Trrotal Year One Cost
$92,466.00
Cost Year Two:
January 1, 2026 to December 31, 2026 
First 6 Months: First 450 employees@ $16.64 ea.
=$ 7,488.00 
Remaining 150 of 600 @$2.70 ea.
=$  405.00
Monthly Total
= $ 7,893.00
6 Times Monthly Total
= $47,358.00
Months 7-12 First 450 employees@ $17.31 ea.= 
Remaining 150 of 600 @$2.81 ea.
Monthly Total
6 Times Monthly Total
$7,789.50
=$
421.50
=$ 8,211.00
= $ 49,266.00
Total Year Two Cost
$96,624.00
122 of 585

--- page 123 ---
Page 12
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Response to the
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for
EMPLOYEE/LABOR RELATIONS AND CONSULTATION SERVICES
Cost Year Three:
January 1, 2027 to December 31, 2027 
First 6 Months: First 450 employees@ $17.31 ea.
=$ 7,789.50 
Remaining 150 of 600@ $2.81 ea.
=$
421.50
Monthly Total
=$ 8,211.00
6 Times Monthly Total
=$ 49,266.00
Months 7-12
First 450 employees@ $17.92 ea.
=$ 8,064.00
Remaining 150 of 600 @ $2.91 ea.
=$
436.50
Monthly Total
6 Times Monthly Total
=$ 8,500.00
=$ 51,003.00
Total Year Three Cost
$ 100,269.00
123 of 585

--- page 124 ---
Page 13
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
EXHIBIT C 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products‐completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non‐owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self‐insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
124 of 585

--- page 125 ---
Page 14
Professional Services 
Rev 9/17
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non‐payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self‐Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self‐insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
125 of 585

--- page 126 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 14-5122
File ID: 24-9317
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Parking Enforcement Services - Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $55,000 to the Police Department’s 2024-25 operating budget; Approve Amendment 
No. 2 to the agreement with LAZ Parking for Citywide parking enforcement services in the amount of $1,464,506 for a new 
agreement total of an amount not to exceed $6,271,726; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the amendment in 
substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Police Department has contracted for parking enforcement services with LAZ Parking (formerly Serco) since 
2019. Enforcement activities in the City commenced in 2020, with a scope of work including issuing parking citations for 
observed violations in the Downtown commercial district, Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) zones, and for street 
sweeping violations; completing data entry and uploading citation data for processing; monitoring equipment and signage 
and reporting any damage; and performing other duties as needed such as traffic control and operational support at 
special events. The current contract was originally executed in 2021 in the amount of $2,034,004 for a term ending on 
November 30, 2022. The contract has been amended once before. In 2022, Amendment No. 1 was executed to extend the 
term and increase compensation by $2,773,216 for a new agreement total of $4,807,220. The term of the current 
amended contract concludes on November 30, 2024, with an option to extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms. 
The service provided by LAZ continues to meet expectations, and staff wishes to continue to partner with LAZ for parking 
enforcement services and exercise the option to extend the contract for an additional year. Amendment No. 2 extends the 
term for one year and documents existing practices for optional services such as requesting operational support for special 
events. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Parking enforcement activities are funded by the Downtown Services Fund. Costs for contracted enforcement services are 
included in the adopted 2024-25 budget; however, approval of Amendment No. 2 will result in costs of approximately 
$55,000 in excess of what was budgeted in the current fiscal year. Council approval is requested to appropriate $55,000 to 
the parking enforcement budget program of the Police Department’s 2024-25 operating budget to cover the increased 
cost of contracted services.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
126 of 585

--- page 127 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
Att 3 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matt Lethin, Captain
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
127 of 585

--- page 128 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVING ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IN THE 2024-25 BUDGET
WHEREAS, the Police Department wishes to amend the agreement with LAZ Parking for Citywide parking 
enforcement services to extend the term and increase wages paid for parking enforcement officers; and
WHEREAS, approval of Amendment No. 2 to the agreement will result in costs in excess of what was 
budgeted and an amendment to the Police Department’s 2024-25 budget will be necessary to fund this expense; 
and
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires City Council approval by resolution for 
supplemental appropriations to the City’s budget.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not 
cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation for fiscal year 2024-25 is approved in the amount of $55,000 
for the Police Department.
128 of 585

--- page 129 ---
129 of 585

--- page 130 ---
130 of 585

--- page 131 ---
131 of 585

--- page 132 ---
132 of 585

--- page 133 ---
133 of 585

--- page 134 ---
134 of 585

--- page 135 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C 1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA, LLC have executed

this Agreement the day and year first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

es

ssn oeneraes...

Chief Ed Barberini

San Mateo Police Department

APPROVED AS TO FORM

DocuSigned by:

Dolor Mbdollali

LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA, LLC

Cs DocuSigned by:
804673C9128542D...

Jeffrey Karp
Its Authorized Agent
President and Founder

If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2)
Vice President plus an additional corporate
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign
below.

ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER
(if necessary per the above)

2E8740B5576C4FA...
Bahareh Abdollahi
Assistant City Attorney

Attachments:

Exhibit A: Scope of Services
Exhibit B: Payment Rates

Exhibit C: Insurance Requirements

Ds
| 423

Contract for Services with SB854
Rev. 9/17

Page 7 of 11

135 of 585


--- page 136 ---
136 of 585

--- page 137 ---
137 of 585

--- page 138 ---
138 of 585

--- page 139 ---
139 of 585

--- page 140 ---
140 of 585

--- page 141 ---
141 of 585

--- page 142 ---
142 of 585

--- page 143 ---
143 of 585

--- page 144 ---
144 of 585

--- page 145 ---
145 of 585

--- page 146 ---
146 of 585

--- page 147 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C 1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

ACORD CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE

THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING INSURER(S), AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.

IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must be endorsed. If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to

the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on this certificate does not confer rights to the

certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).
PRODUCER

Frank Griffin

Amity Insurance Agency, Inc. No. Ext); (617) 471-1220

500 Victory Rd. ekss. f9riffin@amityins.com
Marina Bay
North Quincy
INSURED

LAZ Parking California, LLC
10635 Santa Monica Boulevard
Suite 145

Los Angeles CA 90025 INSURERF: Everest National Insurance Comp

COVERAGES CERTIFICATE NUMBER: 20-21 REVISION NUMBER:

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQU|REMENT, TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN, THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.

. (617) 479-5147

INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE NAIC #
INSURERA: Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance 23035
INSURERB: Liberty Insurance Corporation 42404
32603
28932
20281
10120

MA 02171

INsuRERC: Berkley Insurance Company
INSURERD:Markel American Insurance Company
INSURERE: Federal Insurance Company

TYPE OF INSURANCE
GENERAL LIABILITY
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CLAIMS-MADE | X | OCCUR

GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER:

ANY AUTO

ALL OWNED
AUTOS

HIRED AUTOS

UMBRELLA LIAB
EXCESS LIAB

CLA|MS-MADE

RETENTION $
WORKERS COMPENSATION
AND EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY

YIN
ANY PROPRIETOR/PARTNER/EXECUTIVE [N | NIA

OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?
(Mandatory in NH)

If yes, describe under

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below

POLICY NUMBER

EB2611260451030

JAS2611260451010

SEE ATTACHED LIST OF
IPOLICIES

WWA761D260451020

POLICY EFF
MMI/DDIYYYY)

17/31/2020

17/31/2020

17/31/2020

17/31/2020

POLICY EXP
MMIDDIYYYY)

17/31/2021

17/31/2021

17/31/2021

17/31/2021

LIMITS
EACH OCCURRENCE

1,000,000

DAMAGE TO RENTED
PREMISES (Ea occurrence)

1,000,000

MED EXP (Any one person)

EXCLUDED

PERSONAL & ADV INJURY

1,000,000

GENERAL AGGREGATE

2,000,000

PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG

2,000,000

COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
(Ea accident)

5,000,000

BODILY INJURY (Per person)

BODILY INJURY (Per accident)

PROPERTY DAMAGE
(Per accident)

EACH OCCURRENCE

100,000,000

AGGREGATE

100,000,000

WC STATU-
TORY LIMITS

E.L. EACH ACC|DENT

1,000,000

E.L. DISEASE - EAEMPLOYEE

1,000,000

E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT

1,000,000

GARAGEKEEPERS LIABILITY
CRIME/EMPLOYEE DISHONESTY

JAS2611260451010
IBCCR4500289222

17/31/2020
17/31/2020

17/31/2021
17/31/2021

$1,000,000 LIMIT
$1,000,000 LIMIT

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES (Attach ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, if more space is required)
If agreed upon in a written contract or agreement, City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed

officials, employees and agents are included as an additional insured for general liability, but only
with respect to the operations of the named insured. This insurance is primary and non-contributory to
the additional insureds if agreed upon in a written contract or agreement. Waiver of subrogation applies
in favor of the additional insureds if agreed upon in a written contract or agreement.

Re: City of San Mateo Parking Enforcement Services

CERTIFICATE HOLDER CANCELLATION

SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF, NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.

City of San Mateo

33 W. 20th Avenue

AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
San Mateo, CA 94403

Frank Griffin/FG

|
ACORD 25 (2010/05)
INS025 (201005).01

© 1988-2010 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD

147 of 585


--- page 148 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C 1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

AGENCY CUSTOMER ID: 25084
—_= @ LOC #: See ACORD 25
si een hal ADDITIONAL REMARKS SCHEDULE Page of
AGENCY
Amity Insurance Agency, Inc.

POLICY NUMBER
See Certificate See ACORD 25

CARRIER NAIC CODE
See Certificate EFFECTIVE DATE: 7/31/2020

ADDITIONAL REMARKS
THIS ADDITIONAL REMARKS FORM IS A SCHEDULE TO ACORD FORM,

FORM NUMBER: ACORD 25 FORM TITLE: Certificate of Liability Insurance

INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE NAIC #
INSURER G: American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Compan 26247
INSURER _H: Great American Assurance Compan 26344

If a policy below does not include limit information, refer to the corresponding policy on the ACORD certificate form for policy
limits

POLICY POLICY
a eo _
(mm/dd/yy) (mm/ddiyyy)

EXCESS GENERAL MKLM1EUL101301 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
LIABILITY $4,000,000

UMBRELLA LIABILITY 79863543 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
$25,000,000

EXCESS LIABILITY XC5EX00784201 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
F $15,000,000

EXCESS LIABILITY AEC011173106 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
G $25,000,000

EXCESS LIABILITY EXC3275819 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
$10,000,000

EXCESS LIABILITY 78187246 7/31/2020 7/31/2021 AGGREGATE
$25,000,000

ACCORD 101 (2008/01) © 2008 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACCRD

ADDITIONAL POLICIES

148 of 585


--- page 149 ---
149 of 585

--- page 150 ---
150 of 585

--- page 151 ---
151 of 585

--- page 152 ---
152 of 585

--- page 153 ---
153 of 585

--- page 154 ---
154 of 585

--- page 155 ---
155 of 585

--- page 156 ---
156 of 585

--- page 157 ---
157 of 585

--- page 158 ---
158 of 585

--- page 159 ---
159 of 585

--- page 160 ---
160 of 585

--- page 161 ---
161 of 585

--- page 162 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

WAIVER OF OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER FROM OTHERS ENDORSEMENT

We have the right to recover our payments from anyone liable for an injury covered by this policy. We will not
enforce our right against the person or organization named in the Schedule. (This agreement applies only to the
extent that you perform work under a written contract that requires you to obtain this agreement from us.)

This agreement shall not operate directly or indirectly to benefit anyone not named in the Schedule.

Not applicable in New Hampshire and New Jersey

Schedule

Any person or organization for which the employer has agreed by written contract, executed prior to loss, may
execute a waiver of subrogation. However, for purposes of work performed by the employer in Missouri, this waiver
of subrogation does not apply to any construction group of classifications as designated by the waiver of right to
recover from others (subrogation) rule in our manual.

The waiver does not apply to any right to recover payments which the Minnesota Workers Compensation
Reinsurance Association may have or pursue under M.S. 79.36.

Where required by contract or written agreement prior to loss and allowed
by law

In the states of Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Delaware, Dist. of Columbia,
Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Vermont, West Virginia, the
premium charge is 2% of the total manual premium, subject to a minimum
premium of $100 per policy.

In the states of Connecticut, Florida, Maryland, Oregon, the premium
charge is 1% of the total manual premium, subject to a minimum premium of
$250 per policy.

In the state of Louisiana, the premium charge is 2% of the total standard
premium subject to a minimum premium of $250 per policy.

In the state of Massachusetts, the premium charge is 1% of the total
manual premium.

In the states of New York, Tennessee, the premium charge is 2% of the
total manual premium,subject to a minimum premium of $250 per policy.

WC 00 03 13 © 1983 National Council on Compensation Insurance. Page 1 of 2
Ed. 04/01/1984

162 of 585


--- page 163 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

In the state of Virginia, the premium charge is 5% of the total manual
premium, subject to a minimum premium of $250 per policy.

Issued by Liberty Insurance Corporation 21814

For attachment to Policy No. WA7-61D-260451-020 Effective Date Premium $
Issued to .LAZ Karp Associates, LLC Endorsement No.
WC 00 03 13 © 1983 National Council on Compensation Insurance. Page 2 of 2

Ed. 04/01/1984
163 of 585


--- page 164 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

WORKERS COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYERS LIABILITY Fev, .
INSURANCE POLICY (Si Liberty Mutual.
INSURANCE

INFORMATION PAGE 175 Berkeley Street Boston, MA 02116

issued by Liberty Insurance Corporation (a stock company) 21814

Policy Number WA7-61D-260451-020 Issuing Office Lewiston, ME

Renewal Of WA7-61D-260451-029 Issue Date 08/06/2020

Account Number 1-260451 Sub Account 0000

LAZ Karp Associates, LLC
One Financial Plaza 14th Floor
HARTFORD CT 06103

NJ TIN 261164708000
Risk ID 917224528
MI RiskID 4944380A

Status Limited Liability Company
Other workplaces not shown above: See Item 4. Premium - Extension of Information Page

2. Policy Period: The policy period is from 07/31/2020 to 07/31/2021 12:01 A.M. standard time at the Insured’s
mailing address.
3. Coverage
A. Workers Compensation Insurance: Part One of the policy applies to the Workers Compensation Law of the
states listed here: AL AZCACOCT DE DCFLGAIDIL INKS LAME MD MA
MI MN MS MO NV NH NJ NM NY NC OK OR PA RI SC TN TX
VT VA WV

B. Employers Liability Insurance: Part Two of the policy applies to work in each state listed in Item 3.A. The
limits of our liability under Part Two are:

Bodily Injury by Accident $ 1,000,000 each accident
Bodily Injury by Disease $ 1,000,000 policy limit
Bodily Injury by Disease $ 1,000,000 each employee

C. Other States Insurance: Part Three of the policy applies to the states, if any, listed here:
All States except those listed in Item 3.A and the States of:
ND OH WA WY

D. This policy includes these endorsements and schedules: See Item 3. Coverage D - Extension of
Information Page

4. Premium: The premium for this policy will be determined by our Manuals of Rules, Classifications, Rates and
Rating Plans. All information required below is subject to verification and change by audit.

Classifications Code Premium Basis Total Rate per $100 Estimated Annual
Number Estimated Annual Remuneration of Remuneration Premium
_ _ _See Extension of Information Page
Minimum Premium —*’ \DE) Total Estimated Annual Premium = $
Premium will be billed Annual Deposit Premium

Deposit Tax/Surcharge/Assessment $

Producer 0002 008154 Countersigned by Authorized Rep. (FL)
AMITY INSURANCE AGENCY INC

500 VICTORY RD-MARINA BAY

NORTH QUINCY MA 02171

WC 000001A © 1987 National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. WC 00 00 01 B (CA)
Ed. 07/01/2011 All Rights Reserved 164 of 885 1 of 1


--- page 165 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

NAMED INSURED ENDORSEMENT

Item 1 of the Information Page includes the following firms or organizations as insureds.

Insured Name FEIN No. Dept. of Labor No.

LAZ Karp Associates, LLC 26-1164708 0744521000
051440410001

261164708000
2163284000

WC 89 06 01 © 2010, Liberty Mutual Group of Companies. All Rights Reserved. WC 99 20 16
Ed. 09/01/2010 Page 1 of 4

165 of 585


--- page 166 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C 1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

LAZ Parking California, LLC 27-1701304

9
WC 89 06 01 © 2010, Liberty Mutual Group of Companies. All Rights Reserved. WC 99 20 16
Ed. 09/01/2010 Page 2 of 4

166 of 585


--- page 167 ---
Certificate Of Completion

Envelope Id: 9F584C9289A946C 1 AAA8BC8D6C34F85A
Subject: Please DocuSign: Contract for Services_LAZ.pdf

Source Envelope:

Document Pages: 38
Certificate Pages: 5

AutoNav: Enabled

Envelopeld Stamping: Enabled

Signatures: 3
Initials: 2

Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)

Record Tracking

Status: Original
3/8/2021 11:54:20 AM

Signer Events

Jeffrey Karp
jkarp@lazparking.com
President

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 3/8/2021 2:40:54 PM
ID: 61a2a583-d851-49a8-b6df-d0fdd27ff660

Bahareh Abdollahi
babdollahi@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 3/11/2021 8:48:24 AM
ID: 4¢176c66-5c8c-4493-b9b3-fdfb537a0982

Alonso Barahona
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
Management Analyst

City of San Mateo

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Ed Barberini
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 5/5/2021 3:03:44 PM
ID: Oc3ce446-ef77-4ee7-95c1-8ee70d2ecb6b

Holder: Alonso Barahona
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org

Signature
DocuSigned by:
[fey 28542D.
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style

Using IP Address: 73.0.122.199
Signed using mobile

DocuSigned by:

Polar Udollalri

2E8740B5576C4FA.

Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 24.7.35.163

Ds
| 4B

Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 174.250.36.5

DocuSigned by:
34D74BDBB1BF4AD.
Signature Adoption: Drawn on Device

Using IP Address: 174.194.204.54
Signed using mobile

DocuSige,

~
MsEcuREG

Status: Completed

Envelope Originator:

Alonso Barahona

330 W. 20th Avenue

City Clerk's Office

San Mateo, CA 94403
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98

Location: DocuSign

Timestamp

Sent: 3/8/2021 12:30:48 PM
Viewed: 3/8/2021 2:40:54 PM
Signed: 3/8/2021 2:41:05 PM

Sent: 3/8/2021 2:41:06 PM
Viewed: 3/11/2021 8:48:24 AM
Signed: 3/11/2021 8:48:34 AM

Sent: 3/11/2021 8:48:36 AM
Resent: 4/14/2021 10:37:14 AM
Viewed: 5/3/2021 8:41:49 AM
Signed: 5/3/2021 8:42:03 AM

Sent: 5/3/2021 8:42:05 AM

Resent: 5/5/2021 2:59:59 PM
Viewed: 5/5/2021 3:03:44 PM
Signed: 5/5/2021 3:04:02 PM

167 of 585


--- page 168 ---
In Person Signer Events
Editor Delivery Events
Agent Delivery Events
Intermediary Delivery Events
Certified Delivery Events

Carbon Copy Events

Rob Maroney
rmaroney@lazparking.com

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Erin Fellers
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Sue-Ellen Atkinson
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign

Tricia Toomey
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org
Business Manager

City of San Mateo

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:

Not Offered via DocuSign
Witness Events
Notary Events

Envelope Summary Events

Envelope Sent
Certified Delivered
Signing Complete
Completed

Payment Events

Signature
Status
Status
Status

Status

COPIED

COPIED

COPIED

COPIED

n
-~
»
rs
c
n

Hashed/Encrypted
Security Checked
Security Checked
Security Checked

Status

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamp

Sent: 3/8/2021 12:30:48 PM
Viewed: 5/5/2021 3:05:06 PM

Sent: 5/5/2021 3:04:03 PM
Viewed: 5/5/2021 3:26:30 PM

Sent: 5/5/2021 3:04:04 PM
Viewed: 5/5/2021 4:05:21 PM

Sent: 5/5/2021 3:04:04 PM
Viewed: 5/5/2021 3:04:27 PM

Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamps

3/8/2021 12:30:48 PM
5/5/2021 3:03:44 PM
5/5/2021 3:04:02 PM
5/5/2021 3:04:04 PM

Timestamps

168 of 585


--- page 169 ---
169 of 585

--- page 170 ---
170 of 585

--- page 171 ---
171 of 585

--- page 172 ---
172 of 585

--- page 173 ---
173 of 585

--- page 174 ---
174 of 585

--- page 175 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C 1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A

Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday

jree/commerciaoownrown | [| | CP CT
JGeNeNFoRCEMENT|9:30am-6pm [or [or __|s:30am-spm_|:30am-6pm _|9:30am-6pm__|9:30am-Gom___|
A OO
JGENENFoRCEMENT|S:30am-6om [ort ort __|s:30am-6pm _|:30am-Gpm__|:30m-6pm__|9:30am-Gpm__|
mennmesurea |
jrep/commerciaoownrown | fT CT
fovreonnvenerpcwnrown fff _f{_ ft |
renjcommencayoownTown | | | a
—————————————————
per pan fr pees fone im fomeae
A

a
GGG

Task 2 — Equipment

2.1 Vehicles

LAZ will furnish eight (8) parking enforcement vehicles (Toyota Prius or similar hybrid model) as
approved by the City for parking enforcement activities based on the proposed staffing plan. In
addition, LAZ will consider alternative means of transportation, such as bicycles, in areas where
automobile enforcement is not practical.

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Each vehicle will be equipped with GPS tracking units. This type of tracking system will provide
up to 60-second updates on vehicle and phone movement, driving behavior, and idle times and
send alerts to emails and cell phones for infraction of a set rule. The ability to monitor
movement and driving behavior and patterns of enforcement officers will allow management
to address issues promptly, create efficiencies, end improve officer productivity. Not only does

175 of 585


--- page 176 ---
176 of 585

--- page 177 ---
177 of 585

--- page 178 ---
178 of 585

--- page 179 ---
179 of 585

--- page 180 ---
EXHIBIT D

PAYMENT RATES

Contract Year Hourly Monthly Annual Hours Annually

PEO - Time & Material (T&M)
*Partial Year (8 months) Yeari 36.88 14,080 519,331
Year 2 38.62 21,120 815,689
Year 3 44.40 21,120 937,644
Year4 46.31 21,120 978,067
Year5 48.16 21,120 1,017,190

PM - Time & Material (T&M)
*Partial Year (8 months) 110,739
169,479
172,936
176,464
183,526

Other Direct Charges (ODCs)
*Partial Year (8 months) 147,052
221,999
223,483
224,966
233,963

Automated License Plate Technology
ALPR Support Services
*Partial Year (8 months) 2,486
2,486
2,486
2,486
2,486

Estimated Annual Contract Value
Yeari (Partial Year - 8 Months) 796,008
Year 2 1,236,996
Year 3 1,363,891
Year4 1,409,325
Year5 1,464,506

180 of 585


--- page 181 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4651
File ID: 24-9318
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Contracts with Contingency Component – Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a report on contingency fund expenditures for City contracts for the period from August 1, 2017, through June 30, 
2024. 
 
BACKGROUND:
When presenting contracts to City Council for an award, staff may request approval of contingency funds and 
authorization to approve additional work or issue change orders up to the contingency amount. The contingency amount 
generally amounts to 10 percent of the total contract but is sometimes higher depending on the type of project and 
associated risks. This approach provides flexibility and efficiency to reasonably adjust cost or scope, allowing projects to 
continue without returning to the City Council to approve change orders. The current report shows all active contracts 
Citywide with contingencies greater than $25,000 awarded from August 1, 2017, through June 30, 2024. Below is a 
summary table of active agreements by Department:
Department/Division
Current Approved 
Agreement Amount
Contingency 
Budget
Contingency 
Used
Percentage of 
Contingency Used
Clean Water Program
$593,012,141.69
 $56,738,979.00 
 $38,651,604.06 
68%
Facilities 
$7,674,276.85
 $1,194,000.00 
 $525,817.32 
44%
Parks & Recreation
$2,772,792.50
 $366,099.08 
 $ -   
0%
Police
$475,534.44
 $62,000.00 
 $ -   
0%
Public Works Capital Projects
$41,977,653.05
 $3,810,353.40 
 $458,349.49 
12%
Grand Total
$645,912,398.53
 $62,171,431.48 
 $39,635,770.87 
64%
This report also includes an attachment showing completed projects with contingencies from this same period. The City’s 
practice has been to provide these updates approximately three times annually; however, due to staffing capacity 
challenges, the last update was conducted on June 20, 2022. These updates were temporarily paused and are now 
resuming and will be presented to Council on an annual basis after the close of the fiscal year. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
As this is an update on previously awarded contracts, there is no budget impact. Sufficient funds have been allocated to 
each contract, including the contingency amounts.
181 of 585

--- page 182 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contingency Funding Status Worksheet
Att 2 - Completed Projects with Contingency 
STAFF CONTACT
Alonso Barahona, Management Analyst II
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7334
Jamie Perez, Business Manager 
jperez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7243
182 of 585

--- page 183 ---
CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

CIP Eng

6/17/2024

6/3/2024

5/20/2024

5/20/2024

5/6/2024

4/15/2024

2/20/2024

12/4/2023

8/21/2023

6/5/2023

6/5/2023

7/18/2022

5/16/2022

1/3/2022

4/19/2021

This summary does not include projects with contingencies under $25,000. Negative or no-cost change orders do not impact the contingency fund.

Schaaf &
Wheeler

Storm Drain Master Plan
Update

W.R. Forde
Associates, Inc.

B Street Pedestrian Mall
Improvements

Nichols
Consulting
Engineers, Inc.

Citywide Street Rehabilitation
Package 6B

HDR
Engineering, Inc.

Citywide Surface Treatment
Packages 4A-1 and 4A-2

Golden Bay
Construction

Downtown Parking Garage
Safety Project

United Storm

Water, Inc. Citywide Small Trash

Siegel & Strain
Architects

Marina Library Structural
Improvements Project

St. Francis
Electric, LLC

Bermuda Drive Utility
Relocation

Dewberry
Engineers, Inc.

Bridge Management Program
Development — Agreement

MNS Engineers,
Inc.

Citywide Street Rehabilitation
Package 5B — Agreement

Citywide Street
Reconstruction Phase 4 —
Agreement and Budget
Transfer

McGuire and
Hester

HDR
Engineering,
Inc./Wreco

High Voltage Streetlight
Conversion (Phase 4) Design
Services

Biggs Cardoza | Bermuda Bridge Replacement
Associates

Nichols Citywide Street
Consulting Reconstruction, Phases 4 and
Engineers, Chtd. 5

Interstate
Grading &
Paving

Citywide Street
Reconstruction Phase 1

STATUS OF ONGOING CONTRACTS WITH CONTINGENCY FUNDS through 6/30/2024

1,104,190] $

110,000

9.96%

534,866

le

wn
20
N
S
°
3
is}

wn
uw
S
°
3
is}

wn
w
io}
is}
=
we
o

wn
a
o
“I
N
~
x

105,000

wn
w
a
N
ay
Hy
ES
wn

36,000 9.94% 34,743

16,715 149.57%

/

wo
N
a
So
°
S
5

20.00%

9.91%

wo
wo
io}
a
°
S
is}
wo

58,000 14,180

6,259,358 630,000 10.06%

wn

9,761] $ 8,740

A

9.64%

wo
N
a
ire}
ES
S
S
wo

25,000

-

146,000 $ 76,500] $ 43,500

1,032,874 150,000 14.52%

1,460,000

Pt
Pf
Ph
Pf
Pf
=a
Pf

Pi
Ph
Ph
Pf
Pf
Pf
Ph

$ -
$ -
$ -
$ -
$ -
s -
$ -
$ -
$ -
$ -
5 -
$ -
$ -
5 -
$ 1,

4,457,533] $

370,000

8.30% 59,517] $ 2,249

-

_

s -
$ -
$ -
$ -
$ -
$ -
s -
s -
s -
$ -
$ -
s -
s -
Ss -
$s ,

40,665

34,743

39,098

18,501

7,734

120,000

146,281

$110,000
0% $80,230
0% $82,000
0% $58,400
0% $76,000
0% $105,000

97% $1,257

$25,000

$50,000

67%

$18,902

3% $611,499

31%

$17,266

$150,000

82%

$26,000

40% $223,719

183 of 585

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

0%

30%

75%

10%

90%

50%

50%

65%

60%

99%



--- page 184 ---
CIP Eng

CIP Eng

on

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

cwP

CWP

CWP

9/3/2019

12/3/2018

1/16/2024

11/20/2023

11/20/2023

11/6/2023

7/17/2023

7/17/2023

5/15/2023

8/15/2022

6/6/2022

3/21/2022

2/7/2022

1/3/2022

8/16/2021

BKF Engineer

Schaaf &
Wheeler

Westland
Contractors

Duke's Root
Control

JMB
Construction,
Inc.

GSW
Construction,
Inc.

D’Arcy & Harty
Construction,
Inc.

HDR
Engineering, Inc.

Mountain
Cascade

Herc Rentals,
Inc.

Westland
Contractors

Schaaf &
Wheeler

JMB
Construction,
Inc.

Enterprise
Automation

Stantec
Consulting
Services, Inc

El Camino @ RTE 92
Landscaping Improvements

Coyote Point and Poplar
Avenue Pump Stations Design

Basin B Sanitary Sewer
Rehabilitation Project

2023 Sanitary Sewer Root
Foaming (North Basin)

El Camino Real Conveyance
System Improvements

WWTP Transfer Pumps
Improvement Project

Basin E Sanitary Sewer
Improvements Project —
Agreement

WWTP Nutrient Removal and
Wet Weather Flow
Management Upgrade and
Expansion - Engineering
Services during Construction

Wastewater Treatment Plant
Immediate Action Projects,
Package III

Temporary Standby
Generator for Dale Avenue
Pump Station Upgrade

Basin A & Various Locations
Sanitary Sewer Improvements
Project

East San Mateo Sanitary
Sewer Lift Station
Rehabilitation Project

Delaware Street Relief Sewer
Project

WWTP Supervisory Control &
Data Acquisition System
Merger Project and
Collections System

Basins 2 and 3 Collection
System Improvements

327,520

1,131,070

3,766,099

wn
w
Nn
D
~
s
ES

11,847,106

A

wn
00
B
So
eS
roy
is}

6,486,711

13,143,427

11,344,696

wo
wa
a
ire}
a
fo}
CJ

7,348,355

2,062,184

8,448,375

un
B
oO
Oo
i
a
a

16,940,578

A

50,000

570,000

2,370,000

162,000

1,297,000

3,344,000

2,270,000

235,046

1,470,000

87,200

1,690,000

110,000

322,000

0.00%

4.42%

10.10%

19.99%

4.23%

1.90%

(6,210)

9,170

44,621

107,170

40,030

29,909

56,250

91,500

Ss 101,449] $ 29,411] $ 126,926

S 17,024

wn
N
©
>
fo)
a
N

S 1,007,938

$ 1,307,493

135,959

2,266,340

187,251

1,322,777

1,584,271

56,250

91,500

0%

0%

0%

0%

6%

0%

0%

0%

80%

90%

0%

94%

51%

28%

$o

$50,000

$570,000

$33,000

$2,234,041

$162,000

$1,297,000

$1,077,660

$2,270,000

$47,795

$147,223

$87,200

$105,729

$53,750

$230,500

184 of 585

90%

98%

15%

99%

40%

5%%

78%

85%

10%

80%

95%

90%

99%

95%

85%



--- page 185 ---
CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

CWP

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

Facilities

8/16/2021

11/16/2020

9/21/2020

10/7/2019

5/20/2019

3/4/2019

1/22/2019

1/7/2019

8/21/2017

11/20/2023

3/20/2023

2/21/2023

1/17/2023

10/3/2022

9/19/2022

Anderson
Pacific
Engineering
Construction,
Inc.

CH2M/Jacobs

Sundt
Construction,
Inc.

Anvil Builders,
Inc.

Kutzmann &
Associates, Inc

Stantec

HDR

Engineering, Inc.

Myers and Sons

Stantec
Consulting

Newton

Management,

Inc.

Newton
Construction &
Management,
Inc

Newton
Construction &
Management,
Inc

Urban Elevator
Service CA, LLC

Newton
Construction &
Management,
Inc.

TK Elevator
Corporation

Underground Flow
Equalization System -
Construction Contract

Clean Water Program (CWP)

Program Management

WWTP Nutrient Removal and
Wet Weather Management

Upgrade and Expansion -
GMP3

Basin 2 & 3 Collection System

Improvements/Dale Ave
Pump Station Upgrade

WWTP Nutrient Removal and
Wet Weather Management

Upgrade and Expansion -
Building Plan Review &
Inspection

WWTP IAP II - Design &
Engineering Services

Wastewater Treatment Plant

Nutrient Removal and Wet

Weather Flow Management

Upgrade and Expansion -
Design

WWTP IAP II Construction

WWTP IAP II Design

Construction & | King Recreation Center New

Fire Alarm System

Martin Luther King
Community Center Small
Kitchen Remodel

Fiesta Meadows Park
Restroom Remodel

2nd and El Camino Parking
Garage Elevator
Modernization

Casanova Park Restroom
Remodel

Citywide Elevators and Lifts
Maintenance Service

59,155,205

7,447,151

379,880,747

20,142,000

$930,000

2,126,403

25,744,824

14,346,372

wo
io}
x
a
°
S
5

405,762.74

149,127

ale

wo
B
oO
cy
SS
o}
is}

ota
w
oat
a
Ww
oO
5

un
Nn
oO
©
N
a
w

590,004

7

5,671,000

1,487,000

24,336,910

7,500,000

100,000

87,000

2,575,823

934,000

87,000

120,000

118,000

19.97%

#VALUE!

4.09%

6.51%

9.93%

12.32%

3,645

1,347,749

1,583,964

34,336

46,500

79,800

162,940

73,582

49,707

6,804

(52,339)

$
$
$

568,284

413,992

168,001

42,238

33,937

45,466] $ 5,056,252

$ 1,194,344] $ 2,297,969] $ 11,124,288
$ 39,973] $ 429,433] $ 5,490,383

N
i}
a
Ww
a
~N
wn
5
a
v
wn
B
ES

S
S
°
2
eB
wn
N
ad
Ks}
o
S
is}

5,124,614

1,347,749

A

wn
Bb
D
00
N
©
mS
NY
5

6,551,279

A

wn
s
a
w
fo}
is}

wn
~
Re}
00
fo]
is}

2,575,724

452,119)

49,707

78,467

90%

91%

87%

47%

92%

100%

0%

99%

0%

0%

0%

65%

0%

$546,386

$139,251

$7,507,439

$948,721

$53,500

$7,200

$99

$481,881

$87,000

$293

$25,000

$30,000

$56,000

$41,533

$118,000

185 of 585

98%

80%

85%

95%

95%

98%

99%

98%

98%

95%

35%

5%

Cancelled

30%

Ongoing



--- page 186 ---
186 of 585

--- page 187 ---
187 of 585

--- page 188 ---
188 of 585

--- page 189 ---
189 of 585

--- page 190 ---
190 of 585

--- page 191 ---
191 of 585

--- page 192 ---
192 of 585

--- page 193 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-9322
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
SB 1383 Recovered Organics Waste Procurement Services — Agreements and Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve agreements with the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties for SB 1383 recovered 
organics procurement services, each for one year at $100,000, with three optional one-year extensions totaling up to 
$400,000 per agreement. Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation 
District, increasing the total amount to $103,600, with three optional one-year extensions totaling up to $403,600. 
Authorize the City Manager to execute the agreements and amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383) is a short-term climate pollutants reduction act reducing greenhouse gas emissions (methane) 
generated from landfilling organics. To build a market for the organics diverted from landfills, the City is required to 
procure recovered organics products such as compost, mulch, and renewable natural gas. The City’s annual, ongoing 
recovered organics procurement target is 8,244 tons. The target is based on a calculation multiplying the per capita 
procurement target (a defined value of 0.08 tons of organic waste estimated to be generated per California resident per 
year) by the City’s 2021 population of 103,045. Jurisdictions have the flexibility to procure a variety of products to meet 
their local needs, including transportation fuel, electricity, and heat from renewable gas, electricity from biomass 
conversion, compost, and mulch. 
Currently, compost is the only SB 1383-compliant recovered organic product available to the City. In 2023, through 
compost giveaways at the City’s Corporation Yard and Wastewater Treatment Plant and the City’s participation in the 
Countywide Compost Broker Partnership with the San Mateo Resource Conservation District, the City procured 609 tons, 
leaving a gap of 7,635 tons. 
Staff is working to meet the City’s annual procurement target in other ways, such as exploring renewable natural gas 
production at the Wastewater Treatment Plant; however, to meet the annual procurement target, the City must contract 
with the agricultural community in other regions of California to procure SB 1383-complaint compost and find appropriate 
sites for its application. 
SB 1383 allows the City to enter into “direct service provider” agreements with entities for the purpose of procurement of 
recovered organics, such as compost, provided a written contract or agreement is in place for such procurement. On 
August 20, 2024, the City entered into an agreement with Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District for the 
procurement of SB 1383 compliant compost. However, the City needs additional providers in order to meet its 
requirement target. To that end, the City has identified the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz 
Counties as providers available to procure SB 1383-compliant compost in order to meet the City’s target requirements. 
193 of 585

--- page 194 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Each of these proposed agreements with these Resource Conservation Districts meets the definition of “direct service 
provider agreement” and is a first step to meeting the City’s annual target with the help of the regional agricultural 
community. The agreements will provide for the procurement of SB 1383-compliant compost to help meet the City’s 
target and are based on the successful Countywide Compost Broker Program in San Mateo County. Staff anticipates these 
additional procurement agreements will get the City to approximately 80 percent of its ongoing annual procurement 
target, however, amounts procured each year will be dependent upon compost availability, cost per ton, and number of 
jurisdictions competing for available supply to meet their own targets. Staff expects to achieve the remaining 20 percent of 
the annual target via other means. 
Based on the above, staff recommends Council approve one-year agreements with three optional one-year extensions 
with the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties to meet the City’s SB 1383 requirements. 
Staff also recommends approving Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation 
District to increase the agreement total amount by $100,000 and allow for three optional one-year extensions in order to 
allow the Tuolumne Resource Conservation District to continue providing SB 1383 compliant compost to the City. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the Solid Waste Fund in the Solid Waste Management program operating budget to fund the 
agreements and amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approving agreements with the Resource Conservation Districts of Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties, and an amendment 
to the City’s agreement with the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District to assist the City in procuring SB 1383 
compliant compost to meet the City’s annual compost procurement target is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can 
be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement with the Resource Conservation District of Monterey County
Att 2 - Agreement with the Resource Conservation District of Santa Cruz County
Att 3 - Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement with the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7346
194 of 585

--- page 195 ---
Contract for Services
Page 1 of 12
Rev 12/22
AGREEMENT WITH THE RESOURCE CONSERVATION DISTRICT OF MONTEREY COUNTY
FOR SB 1383 RECOVERED ORGANICS PROCUREMENT SERVICES
FOR 
SB 1383 ANNUAL RECOVERED ORGANICS PROCUREMENT TARGET
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and  the Resource Conservation District of Monterey County, a special district 
("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 744 La Guardia St. Building A, Salinas, CA 93905.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain SB 1383 procurement services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these SB 1383 procurement services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
.
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
195 of 585

--- page 196 ---
Contract for Services
Page 2 of 12
Rev 12/22
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to three (3) optional one-year extensions by 
the CITY. The term of this Agreement may be extended by written amendment executed by the City 
Manager and a duly authorized representative of the CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $100,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
For each one-year extension option exercised by the CITY, the CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in 
an amount not to exceed $100,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B.  
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
196 of 585

--- page 197 ---
Contract for Services
Page 3 of 12
Rev 12/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
Notwithstanding the above, the City hereby consents to the subcontracting of services for the 
purposes of procurement, delivery, or application of SB 1383 compliant compost pursuant to Exhibit A.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
197 of 585

--- page 198 ---
Contract for Services
Page 4 of 12
Rev 12/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
198 of 585

--- page 199 ---
Contract for Services
Page 5 of 12
Rev 12/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Jack Johnson
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th St.
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
Resource Conservation District of 
Monterey County
Attn:  Paul Robins
744 La Guardia St., Bldg. A
Salinas, CA 93905
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
199 of 585

--- page 200 ---
Contract for Services
Page 6 of 12
Rev 12/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and the Resource Conservation District of 
Monterey County have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Paul Robins
Its Authorized Agent
Executive Director
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
200 of 585

--- page 201 ---
Contract for Services
Page 7 of 12
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
In consideration of the payments set forth in this agreement, Contractor shall provide the following 
services:
Compost Procurement
o
Contractor shall  coordinate a compost procurement, delivery, and application program 
that will assist the City of San Mateo meet its recovered organic waste product 
procurement requirements under CA Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383). 
o
Contractor shall act as a direct service provider to the City of San Mateo consistent with 
SB 1383 regulations.
o
Contractor shall identify and recruit compost procurement and application projects that 
will help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 recovered organic waste procurement 
requirements. 
o
Contractor shall procure high-quality SB 1383 compliant compost that is eligible to 
count towards the City of San Mateo’s  SB 1383 procurement target as described in the 
CA Senate Bill 1383 regulations.
Record Keeping & Reporting
o
Contractor shall keep documentation proving that SB 1383 procurement credit 
attributed to the City of San Mateo  under this agreement is solely for the use of the City 
of San Mateo  and not claimed by any other entity or jurisdiction for their SB 1383 
reporting. 
o
Contractor shall collect a release of liability waiver from all individuals who receive 
compost through the compost procurement and application program established under 
this agreement. Contractor shall provide all signed waivers to City of San Mateo upon 
request.
o
Contractor shall collect a photo release form from all individuals who are photographed 
and  who receive compost through the compost procurement and application program 
established under this agreement allowing the City of San Mateo to use photos taken 
under this agreement in public presentations, reports, or other outreach. Contractor 
shall provide all signed forms to the City of San Mateo upon request.
o
Contractor shall provide the City of San Mateo with all procurement records associated 
with this agreement and required for the City of San Mateo’s SB 1383 recovered organic 
waste procurement compliance recordkeeping and reporting upon request. 
Administration
o
Contractor shall submit invoices quarterly. 
201 of 585

--- page 202 ---
Contract for Services
Page 8 of 12
Rev 12/22
o
Each quarterly invoice shall be accompanied by a progress report, which shall include 
updates on the Contractor’s outreach, technical assistance, and compost procurement 
and application efforts completed during the reporting period. The progress report may 
also include images of compost application projects for the jurisdiction to use in public 
reports, presentations, or other outreach.
o
Contractor shall submit a final report by June 30, 2025, summarizing all outreach, 
technical assistance, and compost procurement and application efforts completed 
through this agreement; all costs associated with the project; the SB 1383 procurement 
volume/weight (in tons) accredited to the City of San Mateo,  and any other relevant 
information. 
Subcontractors
o
The City of San Mateo expressly authorizes Contractor to subcontract with farmers, 
ranchers, nonprofits, and other organization to procure compost for application on land 
they own or manage in order to meet the Contractor’s requirements under this 
agreement and facilitate the City of San Mateo’s compliance with its recovered organic 
waste product procurement requirements under SB 1383. Under no circumstances shall 
Contractor obligate the City of San Mateo to any financial obligation beyond the do not 
exceed amount for this agreement through subcontracting. 
Additional Projects
o
Contractor shall identify projects that help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 
recovered organic waste procurement requirements beyond compost procurement and 
application such as mulch procurement and application, composted mulch procurement 
and application, and/or other projects that help a jurisdiction to meet its procurement 
target. With written prior approval from the City of San Mateo and agreement from 
Contractor,  Contractor shall carry out identified projects for this program if the cost of a 
project is comparable or less than compost application projects. Contractor shall collect 
a release of liability waiver and procurement records the City of San Mateo requires for 
its SB 1383 procurement compliance from all individuals or organization who receive 
any material through the program established under this agreement.
202 of 585

--- page 203 ---
Contract for Services
Page 9 of 12
Rev 12/22
203 of 585

--- page 204 ---
Contract for Services
Page 10 of 12
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Compost procurement, delivery, and application not to exceed $75/ton.
204 of 585

--- page 205 ---
Contract for Services
Page 11 of 12
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
205 of 585

--- page 206 ---
Contract for Services
Page 12 of 12
Rev 12/22
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
206 of 585

--- page 207 ---
Contract for Services
Page 1 of 11
Rev 12/22
AGREEMENT WITH THE RESOURCE CONSERVATION DISTRICT OF SANTA CRUZ COUNTY
FOR SB 1383 RECOVERED ORGANICS PROCUREMENT SERVICES
FOR 
SB 1383 ANNUAL RECOVERED ORGANICS PROCUREMENT TARGET 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and the Resource Conservation District of Santa Cruz County, a special district 
("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 820 Bay Avenue, Apt. 136, Capitola CA 95010.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain SB 1383 procurement services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these SB 1383 procurement  services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
.
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
207 of 585

--- page 208 ---
Contract for Services
Page 2 of 11
Rev 12/22
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to three (3) optional one-year extensions by 
the CITY. The term of this Agreement may be extended by written amendment executed by the City 
Manager and a duly authorized representative of the CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $100,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
For each one-year extension option exercised by the CITY, the CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in 
an amount not to exceed $100,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
208 of 585

--- page 209 ---
Contract for Services
Page 3 of 11
Rev 12/22
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement.
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
Notwithstanding the above, the CITY hereby consents to the subcontracting of services for the 
purposes of procurement, delivery, or application of SB 1383 compliant compost pursuant to Exhibit A.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
209 of 585

--- page 210 ---
Contract for Services
Page 4 of 11
Rev 12/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
210 of 585

--- page 211 ---
Contract for Services
Page 5 of 11
Rev 12/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Jack Johnson
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th St. 
San Mateo, CA 94403
To CONTRACTOR:
Resource Conservation District of Santa 
Cruz County
Attn:  Sacha Lozano
820 Bay Avenue, Apt. 136
Capitola, CA 95010
SECTION 21 – AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 – GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
211 of 585

--- page 212 ---
Contract for Services
Page 6 of 11
Rev 12/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and the Resource Conservation District of Santa 
Cruz County have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Lisa Lurie
Its Authorized Agent
Executive Director
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
212 of 585

--- page 213 ---
Contract for Services
Page 7 of 11
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
In consideration of the payments set forth in this agreement, Contractor shall provide the following 
services:
Compost Procurement
o
Contractor shall  coordinate a compost procurement, delivery, and application program 
that will assist the City of San Mateo meet its recovered organic waste product 
procurement requirements under CA Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383). 
o
Contractor shall act as a direct service provider to the City of San Mateo consistent with 
SB 1383 regulations.
o
Contractor shall identify and recruit compost procurement and application projects that 
will help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 recovered organic waste procurement 
requirements. 
o
Contractor shall procure high-quality SB 1383 compliant compost that is eligible to 
count towards the City of San Mateo’s  SB 1383 procurement target as described in the 
CA Senate Bill 1383 regulations.
Record Keeping & Reporting
o
Contractor shall keep documentation proving that SB 1383 procurement credit 
attributed to the City of San Mateo  under this agreement is solely for the use of the City 
of San Mateo  and not claimed by any other entity or jurisdiction for their SB 1383 
reporting. 
o
Contractor shall collect a release of liability waiver from all individuals who receive 
compost through the compost procurement and application program established under 
this agreement. Contractor shall provide all signed waivers to City of San Mateo upon 
request.
o
Contractor shall collect a photo release form from all individuals who are photographed 
and  who receive compost through the compost procurement and application program 
established under this agreement allowing the City of San Mateo to use photos taken 
under this agreement in public presentations, reports, or other outreach. Contractor 
shall provide all signed forms to the City of San Mateo upon request.
o
Contractor shall provide the City of San Mateo with all procurement records associated 
with this agreement and required for the City of San Mateo’s SB 1383 recovered organic 
waste procurement compliance recordkeeping and reporting upon request. 
Administration
o
Contractor shall submit invoices quarterly. 
213 of 585

--- page 214 ---
Contract for Services
Page 8 of 11
Rev 12/22
o
Each quarterly invoice shall be accompanied by a progress report, which shall include 
updates on the Contractor’s outreach, technical assistance, and compost procurement 
and application efforts completed during the reporting period. The progress report may 
also include images of compost application projects for the jurisdiction to use in public 
reports, presentations, or other outreach.
o
Contractor shall submit a final report by June 30, 2025, summarizing all outreach, 
technical assistance, and compost procurement and application efforts completed 
through this agreement; all costs associated with the project; the SB 1383 procurement 
volume/weight (in tons) accredited to the City of San Mateo,  and any other relevant 
information. 
Subcontractors
o
The City of San Mateo expressly authorizes Contractor to subcontract with farmers, 
ranchers, nonprofits, and other organization to procure compost for application on land 
they own or manage in order to meet the Contractor’s requirements under this 
agreement and facilitate the City of San Mateo’s compliance with its recovered organic 
waste product procurement requirements under SB 1383. Under no circumstances shall 
Contractor obligate the City of San Mateo to any financial obligation beyond the do not 
exceed amount for this agreement through subcontracting. 
Additional Projects
o
Contractor shall identify projects that help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 
recovered organic waste procurement requirements beyond compost procurement and 
application such as mulch procurement and application, composted mulch procurement 
and application, and/or other projects that help a jurisdiction to meet its procurement 
target. With written prior approval from the City of San Mateo and agreement from 
Contractor,  Contractor shall carry out identified projects for this program if the cost of a 
project is comparable or less than compost application projects. Contractor shall collect 
a release of liability waiver and procurement records the City of San Mateo requires for 
its SB 1383 procurement compliance from all individuals or organization who receive 
any material through the program established under this agreement.
214 of 585

--- page 215 ---
Contract for Services
Page 9 of 11
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Compost procurement, delivery, and application not to exceed $60/ton. 
215 of 585

--- page 216 ---
Contract for Services
Page 10 of 11
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
216 of 585

--- page 217 ---
Contract for Services
Page 11 of 11
Rev 12/22
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
217 of 585

--- page 218 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
THE TUOLUMNE COUNTY RESOURCE CONSERVATION DISTRICT FOR
SB 1383 RECYCLED ORGANICS PROCUREMENT SERVICES FOR THE SB 1383 ANNUAL RECYCLED 
ORGANICS PROCUREMENT TARGET
($3,600 [Original Amount], $100,000 [Amendment No. 1])
This Amendment is made and entered into this day of ___________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District ("CONTRACTOR").
WHEREAS, on August 20, 2024, CITY and CONTRACTOR entered into an agreement for SB 1383 
procurement services; and
              WHEREAS, CITY and CONTRACTOR wish to amend the Agreement to increase the scope of 
work, allow for one-year extensions, allow assignment, and increase the compensation in an amount 
not to exceed $100,000, for a total compensation amount not to exceed $103,600.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4,  “Term,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on September 2, 
2024, and be completed on June 30, 2025, with up to three (3) optional one-year 
extensions by the CITY. The term of this Agreement may be extended by written 
amendment executed by the City Manager and a duly authorized representative of the 
CONTRACTOR.”
2.
Section 5, “Payment,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount not to exceed $103,600, pursuant to rates 
stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. For each one-year 
extension option exercised by the CITY, the CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an 
amount not to exceed $100,000.”  
218 of 585

--- page 219 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
3. 
Section 13, “Nonassignability,” of the Agreement is amended to read:
“Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of 
CONTRACTOR and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR 
without the prior written consent of CITY. 
Notwithstanding the above, the CITY hereby consents to the subcontracting of services 
for the purposes of procurement, delivery, or application of SB 1383 compliant compost 
pursuant to Exhibit A.”
4. 
Exhibit A, “Scope of Services,” of the Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with 
the attached Exhibit A, incorporated by reference.
5.
Exhibit B, “Payment Rates,” of the Agreement is hereby replaced in its entirety with the 
attached Exhibit B, incorporated by reference.
6.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
219 of 585

--- page 220 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 3 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and the Tuolumne County Resource Conservation District 
have executed this Amendment No. 1 on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Lindsay Mattos
Its Authorized Agent
District Manager
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Tricia Peller 
Administrator
Date
220 of 585

--- page 221 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 4 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
In consideration of the payments set forth in this agreement, Contractor shall provide the following 
services:
Compost Procurement
o
Contractor shall  coordinate a compost procurement, delivery, and application program 
that will assist the City of San Mateo meet its recovered organic waste product 
procurement requirements under CA Senate Bill 1383 (SB 1383). 
o
Contractor shall act as a direct service provider to the City of San Mateo consistent with 
SB 1383 regulations.
o
Contractor shall identify and recruit compost procurement and application projects that 
will help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 recovered organic waste procurement 
requirements. 
o
Contractor shall procure high-quality SB 1383 compliant compost that is eligible to 
count towards the City of San Mateo’s  SB 1383 procurement target as described in the 
CA Senate Bill 1383 regulations.
Record Keeping & Reporting
o
Contractor shall keep documentation proving that SB 1383 procurement credit 
attributed to the City of San Mateo  under this agreement is solely for the use of the City 
of San Mateo  and not claimed by any other entity or jurisdiction for their SB 1383 
reporting. 
o
Contractor shall collect a release of liability waiver from all individuals who receive 
compost through the compost procurement and application program established under 
this agreement. Contractor shall provide all signed waivers to City of San Mateo upon 
request.
o
Contractor shall collect a photo release form from all individuals who are photographed 
and  who receive compost through the compost procurement and application program 
established under this agreement allowing the City of San Mateo to use photos taken 
under this agreement in public presentations, reports, or other outreach. Contractor 
shall provide all signed forms to the City of San Mateo upon request.
o
Contractor shall provide the City of San Mateo with all procurement records associated 
with this agreement and required for the City of San Mateo’s SB 1383 recovered organic 
waste procurement compliance recordkeeping and reporting upon request. 
221 of 585

--- page 222 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 5 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
Administration
o
Contractor shall submit invoices quarterly. 
o
Each quarterly invoice shall be accompanied by a progress report, which shall include 
updates on the Contractor’s outreach, technical assistance, and compost procurement 
and application efforts completed during the reporting period. The progress report may 
also include images of compost application projects for the jurisdiction to use in public 
reports, presentations, or other outreach.
o
Contractor shall submit a final report by June 30, 2025, summarizing all outreach, 
technical assistance, and compost procurement and application efforts completed 
through this agreement; all costs associated with the project; the SB 1383 procurement 
volume/weight (in tons) accredited to the City of San Mateo,  and any other relevant 
information. 
Subcontractors
o
The City of San Mateo expressly authorizes Contractor to subcontract with farmers, 
ranchers, nonprofits, and other organization to procure compost for application on land 
they own or manage in order to meet the Contractor’s requirements under this 
agreement and facilitate the City of San Mateo’s compliance with its recovered organic 
waste product procurement requirements under SB 1383. Under no circumstances shall 
Contractor obligate the City of San Mateo to any financial obligation beyond the do not 
exceed amount for this agreement through subcontracting. 
Additional Projects
o
Contractor shall identify projects that help the City of San Mateo meet its SB 1383 
recovered organic waste procurement requirements beyond compost procurement and 
application such as mulch procurement and application, composted mulch procurement 
and application, and/or other projects that help a jurisdiction to meet its procurement 
target. With written prior approval from the City of San Mateo and agreement from 
Contractor,  Contractor shall carry out identified projects for this program if the cost of a 
project is comparable or less than compost application projects. Contractor shall collect 
a release of liability waiver and procurement records the City of San Mateo requires for 
its SB 1383 procurement compliance from all individuals or organization who receive 
any material through the program established under this agreement.
222 of 585

--- page 223 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 6 of 6
CAO Approved June 2024
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
Compost procurement, delivery, and application not to exceed $60/ton. 
223 of 585

--- page 224 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 24-9323
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a professional consulting services agreement with Brown and Caldwell for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Biogas 
and Biosolids Evaluation in an amount not to exceed $1,249,180; establish a contingency reserve of $426,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and execute any 
necessary amendments within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) Annual Major Components (AMC) Projects include several capital improvement projects 
that are currently under development or under construction and intended to upgrade or rehabilitate aging infrastructure 
at the portion of the City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) that will still remain in operation even after the new 
liquid treatment facilities are commissioned in 2025. The WWTP Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation (Project) is one of these 
projects, which will assess ways to improve the condition, reliability, operations, and maintenance of the City’s two 
anaerobic digesters and sludge storage tank, explore options for and feasibility of beneficial use of solids treatment 
byproducts (specifically biogas and biosolids), and analyze the impact on overall energy production and costs. The project 
includes several components which will culminate in an implementation plan and a capital improvement roadmap for 
future recommended projects. 
The Clean Water Program (CWP) Annual Major Components (AMC) Projects include several capital improvement projects 
that are currently under development or under construction and intended to upgrade or rehabilitate aging infrastructure 
at the portion of the City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) that will still remain in operation even after the new 
liquid treatment facilities are commissioned in 2025. The WWTP Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation (Project) is one of these 
projects, which will assess ways to improve the condition, reliability, operations, and maintenance of the City’s two 
anaerobic digesters and sludge storage tank, explore options for and feasibility of beneficial use of solids treatment 
byproducts (specifically biogas and biosolids), and analyze the impact on overall energy production and costs. The project 
includes several components which will culminate in an implementation plan and a capital improvement roadmap for 
future recommended projects. 
The City has had to respond to and address deficiencies and improvements with the anaerobic digestion and solids 
handling system. A number of these past efforts have been short-term, reactive solutions to keep systems operational. A 
long-term, cost-efficient solution needs to be developed through this Project to maintain reliability, ease of operability, 
and redundancy of the digestion system. 
In April 2022, staff issued a Request for Qualifications for on-call professional services, which included alternatives 
analyses and engineering studies, design services, bid period services, engineering services during construction, and 
224 of 585

--- page 225 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
operational support. In August 2022, City Council awarded two On-Call Consulting Services Agreements to Carollo 
Engineers and Brown and Caldwell. 
In June 2024, staff provided Carollo Engineers and Brown and Caldwell a Request for Proposals to provide services for the 
Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation Study. In August 2024, staff received proposals for this work from the two firms. Staff 
evaluated the proposals and determined Brown and Caldwell as the best qualified consultant to provide the scope of work 
and expertise required for this Project. This study was previously envisioned to be issued under the existing On-Call 
Consulting Services Agreement with Brown and Caldwell; however, due to the cost of the study, a separate agreement is 
needed. 
Staff negotiated a fee of $1,249,180 to complete the Project’s base scope of services, which includes general project 
management services; Digester 1 cleaning and assessment and subsequent design, bid period assistance, and construction 
phase services for recommended improvements; evaluations and field investigations of the solids processing facilities; and 
reporting. 
The level of effort associated with completing evaluations and field investigations of Digester 1, Digester 2, and the sludge 
storage tank makes up about 40 percent (or $501,397) of the negotiated fee, primarily due to the challenges and 
complexity of safely inspecting inside of an egg-shaped confined space. The base scope of work includes an interior 
scaffolding approach for inspecting Digester 2, but not for Digester 1 or the sludge storage tank. With a scaffolding system 
erected, the consultant will perform ultrasonic testing, dry film thickness testing, and pit depth measurements inside 
Digester 2. Earlier this year, Council approved a separate contract for repairing/replacing the mixer inside Digester, which 
required Digester 2 to be taken out of operation; the other two facilities remain in operation. Staff incorporated the 
Digester 2 interior scaffolding in the base scope of work since it is not currently in operation. The approach to potentially 
utilize scaffolding to perform interior inspections of the other two facilities is discussed further below and strategically 
included as part of the requested contingency reserve.
The base scope and fee of this Project also includes assessing and reporting the utilization of biogas and biosolids for 
beneficial and economic use in response to evolving regulations and policies with respect to waste management, landfill 
disposal, and environmental protection. In addition, the new WWTP liquid treatment facilities that are under construction 
and will be operational next year will cause operational changes to the anaerobic digestion and solids handling system; the 
Project will analyze these changes and recommend optimizations to the systems. The Project will also evaluate the use of 
biogas to potentially offset the anticipated increase in operational electricity costs once the new WWTP liquid treatment 
facilities are commissioned. Grants, credits, and loans available from federal, state, and local programs to fund the 
recommended capital improvements will also be identified as part of the evaluation and reports. The results of the Project 
will be used to plan for future capital planning needs and define the scope of other WWTP projects. 
Staff requests a contingency reserve to potentially include scaffolding installations to complete interior condition 
assessments for the sludge storage tank and Digester 1 facilities. These two facilities must remain operational while 
Digester 2 is being evaluated. It is critical to evaluate the interiors of these facilities; however, staff recommends a phased 
approach to evaluate the efficacy of using interior scaffolding during the Digester 2 evaluations, along with evaluating if 
alternate interior non-scaffolding approaches can be completed. Brown and Caldwell’s proposed fee to include interior 
scaffolding for the sludge storage tank and Digester 1 is conservatively estimated at $326,000. A future amendment will be 
required to support the interior evaluations of the other two facilities; if less expensive alternatives are not feasible, this 
$326,000 scope will need to be quickly amended into the agreement to not impact the schedule and minimize any period 
of time where solids processing facilities are out of operation. To address any other potential changes or unknowns, an 
additional $100,000 is also requested to be added. This recommended phased strategy requires a total contingency 
reserve of $426,000. 
On agreements of this nature, Council has typically approved contingency reserves that equal 10 to 20 percent of the fee. 
In this case, staff’s $426,000 contingency request is 34 percent of the fee. Establishment of this higher contingency reserve 
is recommended to provide staff the flexibility to evaluate alternate approaches to conduct interior evaluations of the 
225 of 585

--- page 226 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
other two facilities, while allowing a timely start of the base scope of services and timely execution of anticipated and 
required amendments to the scope and fee.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds available in the CWP WWTP Annual Major Components (46t090) project account to fund this 
agreement and contingency reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” in that it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Thomas Ruark, Project Manager II
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7280
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Director of Public Works
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7287
 
Matthew Fabry, Director of Public Works
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7303
226 of 585

--- page 227 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 1 of 10
Rev 11/18
   AGREEMENT WITH BROWN AND CALDWELL
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR BIOGAS AND BIOSOLIDS EVALUATION PROJECT
This agreement, made and entered into this day of _______________, by and between the CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to 
as "CITY", and Brown and Caldwell, a California Corporation with offices at P.O. Box 45208 San Francisco, CA 
94145-0208  hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT":
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain professional services hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required 
services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is described in Exhibit A, 
Scope of Services, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL SKILL OF CONSULTANT
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is skilled in 
the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY 
relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and CONSULTANT 
agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's work by CITY does not operate as a release 
of CONSULTANT from said obligation.
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING
3.1
CITY
MATT FABRY, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, will be the representative of CITY for all purposes under this 
Agreement. THOMAS RUARK is hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall supervise the day-to-day 
progress and execution of this Agreement.
3.2
CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal.  CONSULTANT shall not assign or transfer its interest 
or obligation under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent.  CONSULTANT shall not subcontract its 
duties under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent.
227 of 585

--- page 228 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 2 of 10
Rev 11/18
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall responsibility for the progress and 
execution of this Agreement for CONSULTANT. ANGELA MACKINNON is hereby designated as the PROJECT 
DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent CONSULTANT during the day-to-day 
work on the Project. MARY LOU ROMERO is hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for 
CONSULTANT.
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows:
Lexi Valent
Shouhreh Rouhani
Tracy Stigers
Alison Nojima
Natalie Sierra
Tom Chapman
Tyler Knight
Dan Gagne
Colin Casey
Dane Forsberg
Deanna Tanner 
John Scannell
Michael Walkowiak
Ayad Jabir C
Nitesh Poladia
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with the following subconsulting firms 
to assist in providing the services required by this Agreement:
JDH Corrosion Consultants Inc. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub-consultants necessary for 
performance of the CONSULTANT’s scope of work.  CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and incorporate sub-
consultants work into the project as necessary.
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above named CONSULTANT's personnel and 
subconsultants.  CONSULTANT shall not substitute personnel or subconsultants without the CITY's written 
consent.
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the result is 
accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or employee of CITY while 
providing services under this Agreement.
228 of 585

--- page 229 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 3 of 10
Rev 11/18
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT
CONSULTANT's Services shall be furnished as described below and as more particularly described in 
Exhibit A, Scope of Services.  Any changes in the Scope of Services must be approved in advance, in writing, by 
the Public Works Director.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and coordination of all 
studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other items furnished by CONSULTANT under this 
Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in 
its studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other items.
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this Agreement.
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared by CONSULTANT or 
CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be approved, signed, and sealed by professional engineers duly 
registered in the State of California for each required discipline.  The Contract Documents prepared by 
CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms to all applicable national, state and local 
construction codes and ordinances, building, fire, electrical, plumbing and occupancy codes and standards.
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform the 
services of CONSULTANT.  No subconsultant of CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; rather, all 
subconsultants are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to be responsible for 
their performance.  CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention to the fulfillment of the provisions of this 
Agreement by all of its employees and subconsultants, if any, and shall keep the work under its control.  If any 
employee or subconsultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to carry out the provisions of this Agreement or 
appears to be incompetent or to act in a disorderly or improper manner, he or she shall be discharged 
immediately from the work under this Agreement on demand of CITY.
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code 
Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for CITY to ascertain that the services 
of CONSULTANT are being performed in accordance with the requirement and intentions of this Agreement.
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work.
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and be completed as set forth in 
Exhibit B, Project Schedule.
229 of 585

--- page 230 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 4 of 10
Rev 11/18
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement.  CONSULTANT agrees to 
perform the services within the time limits set forth in Exhibit B.
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT's timetable.
Neither CITY nor CONSULTANT shall be considered in default of this Agreement for delays in 
performance to the extent caused by circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the nonperforming party.
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full performances 
of the services and any reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a 
base fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed $1,249,180. Requests for payments shall be 
itemized and correspond to the various items of work described in Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and 
cost schedule set forth in Exhibit C.
CITY reserves the right to pay CONSULTANT not more than 95 % of the "not to exceed" amount until a 
100% project review is complete and the CITY determines that 100 % of the project work is complete. 100 % 
project completion shall include completion of Tasks 1 through 4 as listed in Exhibit A.
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work authorized in advance 
in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing such extra work or changes, CONSULTANT and 
CITY shall agree upon an estimated not to exceed cost for such extra work.  In no event shall CONSULTANT be 
paid for additional work that is necessary because of CONSULTANT's errors or oversights.
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the number of hours worked by 
persons and the direct costs incurred during each phase under this Agreement.  All such records shall be 
maintained on a generally accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily accessible.  
CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY at all times, shall permit the CITY 
to examine and audit those books and records, shall permit the CITY to make copies of those books and records, 
and shall permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, proceedings, and activities related to this 
Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of final payment under this Agreement.  All accounting 
records shall provide an understandable breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement.  All records 
encompassed by this subparagraph, as well as supporting documentation, shall be kept separate from other 
CONSULTANT documents and records and shall be maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after 
CONSULTANT's receipt of final payment under this Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all compensable activity on the project.
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings.  If CITY disagrees with any 
portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY and the 
CONSULTANT shall attempt to resolve the disagreement.  CITY's payment of any amounts shall not constitute a 
waiver of any disagreement.
230 of 585

--- page 231 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 5 of 10
Rev 11/18
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing or increasing the amount of 
CONSULTANT's services by amending this Agreement.  In the event that such changes are ordered, CONSULTANT 
shall be entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of notice of change.  In no event 
shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such extra compensation shall first have been agreed to in 
writing by CITY.
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the schedule for progress and 
completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be adjusted by 
negotiation between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San Mateo City Council.
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to CITY.  CONSULTANT covenants 
that it presently has no interest, and will not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which 
would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services under this Agreement.  
CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps to ensure that, it does not employ a person 
having such an interest in the performance of this Agreement.  If after employment of a person, CONSULTANT 
shall promptly remove the employee from the project and will engage the affected parties to determine the 
appropriate method of resolution, such as the creation of ethic walls to prevent the exchange of information 
between employees, project teams or offices.
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION
A.
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY may, by ten days 
written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time, either for CITY'S 
convenience or because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its agreement obligations.  Upon receipt and 
within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall:
1.
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice directs otherwise); and
2.
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries and such other information 
and materials as may have been accumulated by CONSULTANT in performing this Agreement, whether 
completed or in progress.
B.
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be compensated for all authorized 
work performed prior to notification of termination but no amount shall be allowed for anticipated profit on 
unperformed services.
C.
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, it is determined by a court 
or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so failed, the termination shall be deemed to have been effected 
for the convenience of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the agreement price shall be made as provided in 
paragraph (B) of this section.
231 of 585

--- page 232 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 6 of 10
Rev 11/18
D.
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the project upon sixty (60) days 
written notice to CITY, but only in the event of substantial failure of performance by CITY or in the event CITY 
abandons or indefinitely postpones the Project.
E.
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project by either CITY or 
CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall terminate.
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although instruments 
of professional service, are and upon payment to CONSULTANT of undisputed amounts due, shall be the 
property of the CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. Any modifications or 
reuse of such documents for purposes other than those intended by the Agreement shall be at the CITY’s sole 
risk and without liability to CONSULTANT. All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all reports 
and supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of this Agreement, upon 
payment to CONSULTANT of undisputed amounts due, are the CITY's property and shall be delivered to the CITY 
upon the completion of CONSULTANT's services or at the CITY's written request. All reports, information, data, 
and exhibits prepared or assembled by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services 
pursuant to this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the CONSULTANT shall 
not make any of these documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
the CONSULTANT or the CITY without the written consent of the CITY before any such release.  Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, CONSUTLANT shall have no confidential obligation with respect to information that: (i) becomes 
generally available to the public other than as a result of disclosure by CONSULTANT or its agents or employees; 
(ii) was available to CONSULTANT on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure by CITY; or (iii) becomes 
available to CONSULTANT from a third party who is not, to the knowledge of CONSULTANT, bound to retain such 
information in confidence.
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit D to this 
Agreement.
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT and 
cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written consent of CITY.
232 of 585

--- page 233 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 7 of 10
Rev 11/18
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY
Indemnity for Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the 
City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense to the extent 
arising out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct in the performance of its design 
professional services under this Agreement. To the maximum extent permitted by law and Civil Code section 
2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims.
 
Indemnity for Activities Other Than Design Professional Services. CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless 
and indemnify the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any alleged claims, loss, liability, damage, and 
expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s 
active negligence or willful misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, against any such claims.
 
The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, 
covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of any other 
term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or other money which 
may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach or violation by the 
other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not exceeding 
$5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable 
whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, 
appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than 
$5000 for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 18 - NONDISCRIMINATION
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with applicable 
regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its subconsultants shall 
discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national origin, ancestry, physical 
handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a bona fide occupational 
qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
233 of 585

--- page 234 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 8 of 10
Rev 11/18
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be agreed to by 
the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators 
listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, 
or other agreed upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making 
a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting 
with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the 
maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or is based upon 
CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for testimony, testimony, and 
travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 21 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
To CITY: 
Thomas Ruark
City of San Mateo 
Biogas and Biosolids Evaluation
City of San Mateo 
2050 Detroit Drive 
San Mateo, CA 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Brown and Caldwell
Attn: Angela MacKinnon
P.O Box 45208
94145-0208
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENTS
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and CONSULTANT and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and CONSULTANT.
234 of 585

--- page 235 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 9 of 10
Rev 11/18
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, deliver, and 
perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this Agreement have the 
legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each respective party.
SECTION 24 - SEVERABILITY
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise unenforceable by a 
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect.
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
SECTION 26 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURES PAGE FOLLOWS]
235 of 585

--- page 236 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 10 of 10
Rev 11/18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and Brown and Caldwell has 
been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Angela MacKinnon
Its Authorized Agent
Project Director 
If a Corporation, can be either 
1) President or 2) Vice 
President plus an additional 
corporate officer (i.e., 
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh P. Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
Rob Goodson
Corporate Secretary 
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Scope of Work
Exhibit B:
Project Schedule
Exhibit C:
Cost Schedule
Exhibit D:
Insurance Requirements
236 of 585

--- page 237 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 1 of 15
Rev 11/18
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Brown and Caldwell will assist the City by providing the following scope of services for this 
project.
Task 1 – General Services
Task 1.1 Project Management and Progress Reporting
The objective of BC’s project management services will be to provide management of project 
schedule, budget in delivering the scope of services. BC’s project manager will be the primary 
point of contact and is responsible for managing staff resources, budget, and 
correspondence with the City’s project manager.
This task will include general project management activities, including team coordination, 
client communication, project schedule maintenance, and budget tracking and reporting. 
BC’s project manager will prepare and submit monthly progress reports/invoices that include a 
narrative of the work completed by task, project action item log, upcoming work, project 
issues, budget and schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, potential scope or 
budget changes, and other important project information. The monthly progress report will be 
submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. The invoices will 
document the hours and billing rates for staff for each task and direct costs. The current and 
previous billing period invoicing, as well as a summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, 
cost to complete, and backup documentation for expenses will be included.
As part of this task, a fieldwork safety plan and project management plan will be prepared for 
internal use. 
Task 1.1 Deliverables:
•
Up to seventeen (17) monthly invoices and progress reports (via email) 
•
Meeting minutes for biweekly- coordination calls
Task 1.1 Assumptions:
•
This scope assumes that the project duration will be seventeen (17) months.
•
BC’s project manager will conduct up to thirty-four (34) bi-weekly 30-minute 
coordination calls with the City’s Project Manager. Meeting will be held virtually using 
Teams.
Task 1.2 Quality Control
BC will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation of the 
Scope of Work. The QA/QC Plan will be submitted for review to the City Project Manager and 
will include or reference the control for implementation. QA/QC Plans will include detailed 
requirements for the review of fieldwork, including conducting the explorations, sampling, and 
sample custody and transport. QA/QC procedures for laboratory work will be included. Each 
submittal, or partial submittal of testing results will be accompanied by a written certification, 
signed by the BC’s Project Manager and the responsible individual from the applicable 
237 of 585

--- page 238 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 2 of 15
Rev 11/18
subconsultant, stating that the QA/QC procedures have been complied with for the 
information or submittal being delivered to the City. The QA/QC Plan will include identified 
controls for work and calculations prepared for the project and detailed requirements for field 
investigations. 
Task 1.2 Deliverables:
•
One draft and Final QA/QC plan (Word and PDF)
Task 1.2 Assumptions:
•
City will provide comments two (2) weeks after draft QA/QC plan is submitted.
•
If concrete samples are collected, the laboratory processing the samples will 
provide their own written certification of results and description of QA/QC 
procedures. BC will not perform additional certification of testing results from a 
laboratory. 
Workshops and Meetings 
BC will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each formal 
meeting or workshop and hold progress meetings. The proposed list of workshops and 
meetings is: 
1.
Kick-off Meeting- Review the project goals and clarify scope and timing of digester 
cleaning. Includes initial presentation and discussion on construction sequencing and 
constraints, identifying decisions that need to be made in Workshop 2.
2.
Digester Cleaning Planning Meeting (to support Task 2) – Workshop to plan the cleaning 
and condition assessment of the digestion system. Topics and decisions discussed will 
include digester cleaning and inspection sequencing, contractor’s points of 
connection and discharge, hauling and disposal requirements, as well as digester 
shutdown and startup requirements.
3.
Digester Cleaning 90% Design Review Meeting (to support Task 2)
4.
Condition Assessment and On-Site Interviews with Staff (to support Task 3) – Interviews 
with maintenance staff to understand condition of mechanical equipment for the 
digesters, heat loop, and biogas treatment. The site visit will include visual assessment of 
heat loop, biogas systems and digester instrumentation, only. Physical testing of 
equipment and instrumentation is not included.
5.
Regulatory, Permitting, and Market Assessment Workshop (to support Task 4) – Workshop 
to present the findings from biosolids and biogas market assessment. Workshop will also 
present impacts of permitting and regulations on alternatives developed. 
6.
Screening and Evaluation Criteria Workshop (to support Task 4) – Workshop to develop 
fatal flaw screening criteria and non-economic criteria to be used in to evaluate the 
alternatives developed. 
7.
Technology Screening Workshop (to support Task 4) – Workshop to present fatal flaw 
screening of biosolids and biogas utilization technologies using the criteria developed in 
the previous workshop.
8.
Initial Alternatives Evaluation Workshop (to support Task 4)
9.
Refined Alternative Evaluation Workshop (to support Task 4)
10. Capital improvements plan (CIP) Roadmap and Implementation Plan Workshop (to 
support Task 4)
238 of 585

--- page 239 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 3 of 15
Rev 11/18
Task 1.3 Deliverables:
•
Workshop agenda, presentation materials and meeting minutes (Electronic Word 
and PDF)
Task 1.3 Assumptions: 
•
Travel time and other direct costs are included in the budget. 
•
Workshops and meetings are assumed to be up to 2-hours duration each with hybrid 
virtual and in-person attendance for up to four (4) BC staff. City project manager 
(PM) will be responsible to invite the required City staff attendees. 
•
Up to three (3) BC staff will conduct an on-site visit for on-site interviews. Site visit is 
assumed to be six hours in duration. See additional assumptions for the site visit 
under Task 3. 
Task 2 – Digester 1 Cleaning Design, Bid Period Assistance, and 
Construction Phase Services 
BC will develop bid documents that include figures and/or drawings and specifications for the 
Digester 1 Cleaning services prior to the condition assessment. BC will assist during the bid 
period and construction phase of the Digester 1 cleaning services. The specifications will 
include digester shutdown and startup sequencing constraints for the contractor. 
Task 2.1 Bid Package Development
This task will include a digester shutdown and startup sequencing plan including the 
requirements and constraints for Digester 1 cleaning and, 90%, and 100% (bid) design 
submittals. Each design submittal will include drawings and technical specifications for 
digester cleaning. BC’s anticipated drawing list is provided in Attachment A. BC’s drawings will 
be annotated versions of existing drawings provided by the City from the Digester 1 project. 
Budget for review workshops is included in Task 1.3. 
Task 2.1 Deliverables:
90 Percent Design Package:
•
90 Percent drawings (see attached preliminary drawings list) (1 half-sized electronic 
PDF)
•
90 Percent specifications (1 electronic PDF)
•
90 Percent Sequencing Plan Document (1 electronic PDF)
100 Percent Design Package:
•
Signed and sealed 100 percent design drawings (1 half-sized electronic PDF)
•
Signed and sealed 100 Percent specifications (1 electronic PDF copy and 1 electronic 
Word file)
•
100 Percent Sequencing Plan Document (1 electronic PDF)
•
Completed comment/response log addressing City’s comments on the 90 Percent 
Design Submittal (electronic format)
Task 2.1 Assumptions:
•
The fee estimate is based on the anticipated list of drawings included in Attachment A.
239 of 585

--- page 240 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 4 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
City review comments will be coordinated and compiled in MS Word or Excel and 
provided to BC within 10 business days after receipt of submittal. City will resolve any 
conflicting review comments. 
•
The City will be responsible for preparing bidding documents and general contract 
specifications (“front end” documents, Divisions 0 and 1.) Specifications will be provided 
in Specifications Institute (CSI) Master Format Division 50.
•
Technical specifications (Divisions 2 through 50) will be developed using BC’s format, 
based on Construction Specifications Institute (CSI) Master Format Division 50. 
•
The design documents will be prepared as a traditional design-bid-build project.
•
Drawings will be annotated versions of existing record drawings of Digester 1. BC will use 
City’s provided record drawings and field measurements, where appropriate. 
•
Drawings will be developed using BC standards.
•
Permitting services are not included.
•
It is assumed that the City has cleaned Digester 2, removing and disposing of the grit 
found in the digester. Design package will not include Digester 2. 
•
The design of Digester 1 repairs, if identified as part of the Digester 1 condition 
assessment findings, is not included in BC’s scope of work. 
•
Construction cost estimates are not included in BC’s scope of work. 
Task 2.2. Bid Period Assistance
BC will support the City during the bid period, which includes the following activities: 
•
One (1) staff from BC will attend in person and assist the City at the pre-bid meeting. BC 
will assist the City in preparing an agenda for the meeting. Pre-Bid Meeting will be led 
by the City and assumed to be a duration of three (3) hours: 
-
BC will provide responses to requests for information (RFI) from prospective bidders. 
For budgeting purposes, it is assumed that up to twenty-five (25) hours total will be 
required to provide RFI responses.
-
BC will assist the City with preparation of addenda. For budgeting purposes, it is 
assumed that up to one (1) addendum will be provided requiring ten (10) hours to 
complete.
-
BC will assist the City with the bidder evaluation, including bidder’s responsiveness, 
licensing, references, and work experience. 
Task 2.2 Deliverables: 
•
Responses to bidders’ RFI (electronic copy in Microsoft Word).
•
Addenda to specifications (electronic copy in Microsoft Word and PDF).
•
Addenda to drawings (electronic PDF).
Task 2.2 Assumptions: 
•
The City will advertise the construction bid and serve as the primary point of contact for 
all bidder inquiries.
•
City will lead and prepare pre-bid meeting materials.
•
The City will manage the bidding and advertisements.
•
The City will distribute bid documents and addenda.
•
The City will lead all communications with prospective bidders.
•
BC will provide services up to the limit of task budget. Bid review is assumed to 
determine compliance with contract. 
240 of 585

--- page 241 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 5 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
Conformed drawings are not included in the scope. 
Task 2.3 Engineering Services During Digester Cleaning 
BC will provide engineering services during the Digester 1 cleaning services. Engineering 
services to be provided during this task include attendance at meetings, submittal reviews, 
responses to RFI, design clarifications, support services during startup, and site visits. BC will 
provide services up to the limit of the Task budget.
Task 2.3.1 Request for Information
BC will provide a written response to RFIs on an as requested basis on RFIs transferred to BC by 
the City’s Construction Manager. BC will provide a written response on a response sheet and 
return the response sheet to the City’s Construction Manager. BC will complete review of the 
RFI, provide response, and return response within 10 calendar days after BC’s receipt of RFI. If 
the response cannot be completed within this period, BC will notify City’s Construction 
Manager and provide reason for delay prior to the end of the specified period. RFI 
documentation transmitted to BC and responses transmitted back to the City Construction 
Manager will be electronic via email or file share link.
The City’s Construction Manager will screen RFIs for form, completeness, and general content 
conforming to that specified in the Contract Documents before transmitting them to BC. 
BC’s budget for this task is based on reviewing sixteen (16) RFIs at an average effort of five (5) 
hours per RFI. BC will provide services up to the limit of the Task budget.
Task 2.3.2 Submittals 
BC will provide written review comments for submittal’s transferred to BC by the City’s 
Construction Manager, BC will provide submittal reviews on a review comment sheet to the 
City’s Construction Manager. Submittal documentation transmitted to BC and responses 
transmitted back to the City’s Construction Manager will be electronic via email or file share 
link. Submittal review does not include marking up or returning hard copies of submittals.
BC will review the submittal, provide comments, and return the review comment sheet within 
15 workdays for normal submittals, and in accordance with the contract documents, after 
BC’s receipt of submittal. If for any reason the review cannot be completed within this period, 
BC will notify City’s Construction Manager and provide reason for delay prior to the end of the 
specified period.
The City’s Construction Manager will screen all submittals for, completeness, and general 
content conforming to that specified in the Contract Documents before transmitting them to 
BC. Examples of submittals to be reviewed by BC include technical product data, shop 
drawings, samples, test results, and operations and maintenance manuals. BC’s submittal 
review is to determine compliance with the Contract Documents. Submittal review is not 
intended as acceptance of work. The review is not intended to relieve the Contractor of his or 
her full responsibility for performance as required by the Contract Documents.
BC’s budget allowance for this task is based on reviewing six (6) submittals requiring an 
average effort of eight (8) hours per submittal and two (2) resubmittals requiring an average 
effort of two (2) hours per submittal. BC will provide services up to the limit of the task budget.
241 of 585

--- page 242 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 6 of 15
Rev 11/18
Task 2.3.3 Design Clarification Memoranda and Change Order Support
BC will issue Design Clarification Memoranda (DCM) on an as requested basis as requested in 
writing from the City’s Construction Manager. BC will provide a written clarification on a DCM 
(including specifications, sketches) and issue the DCM to the Construction Manager.
DCM will be issued to 1) clarify Contract Documents, 2) if modifications to the Contract 
Documents are desired by the City, or 3) to assist the Construction Manager with the 
preparation of contract change order requests. Cost estimates for DCMs and change orders 
are not included in the scope. Scope assumes Construction Manager will prepare formal 
change order requests.
BC will provide up to 8 hours of DCM and change order support. DCM and Change order 
support documentation will be delivered via email to the Construction Manager.
Task 2.3.4 Meetings and Site visits 
BC will attend weekly recurring construction meetings via teleconference. Budget allowance 
is based on virtual attendance of one (1) BC team member. Meetings are assumed to occur 
weekly for a duration of one (1) hour. Construction is assumed to be 2 months in duration. 
Meeting documentation will be the responsibility of others.
BC will periodically visit the Project site at the written request of the City. BC’s budget 
allowance is based on four (4) site visits. Site visits are budgeted at 6 hours each, which 
includes travel time. 
Task 2.3 Deliverables: 
•
Responses to RFIs (electronic PDF)
•
Responses to Submittals (electronic PDF)
•
DCM (electronic PDF)
Task 3– Evaluations and Field Investigations
BC and subconsultant (JDH Corrosion Consultants, Inc, JDH) will perform a condition 
assessment of the existing anaerobic digestion system and ancillary systems based on 
available as-built and record drawings, historical data, reports, and observations. Condition 
assessment results and recommended improvements will be documented in a technical 
memorandum (TM) as part of Task 4.
BC will conduct a desktop review of the existing unit processes and associated equipment. BC 
will submit a request for information via email. BC will review provided record drawings, reports, 
maintenance records, and historical operating data prior to a site visit. BC will prepare forms to 
document a condition assessment of existing assets such as the heat loop, biogas systems, 
and digester level instruments during a one-day site visit. The site visit will include three (3) BC 
staff for a duration of 8-hours. During the site visit, BC will conduct staff interviews with the City 
maintenance staff to obtain feedback on the systems that may support the condition 
assessment and to understand equipment capacity. 
Unit processes to be evaluated include:
242 of 585

--- page 243 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 7 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
Visual observation of the Digesters 1 and 2 exterior, including insulation (performed by BC’s 
subconsultant). 
•
Visual observation of the Digesters 1 and 2 internal coatings (performed by BC’s 
subconsultant). 
•
Internal inspection of Digester 2 (performed by BC’s subconsultant (JDH), see paragraph 
below for additional information)
•
Visual evaluation of Digester 2 electrical components and condition of conduits exiting the 
gallery. 
•
Visual and desktop evaluation of the existing digester mixers. The results of the recent SPX 
inspection will be incorporated in BC’s recommendations. 
•
Visual observation of the exterior and interior Sludge Storage Tank (performed by BC’s 
subconsultant).
•
External observation of gas and hot water piping. Ultrasonic thickness (UT) testing will be 
performed at up to ten (10) locations. 
•
Visual observation and desktop evaluation of the heat loop, including the boiler, hot water 
loop (pumps, valves, piping, and instrumentation and heat exchangers. 
•
Visual observation and desktop evaluation of biogas treatment system, digester gas 
storage system, waste gas burner, and biogas treatment system feed to the boiler. 
•
Visual observation and desktop evaluation of digester level instruments including existing 
pressure transducers. 
•
Visual observation of valves and penetrations on top of the digesters. 
•
Visual observation of flame arrestors. 
BC’s subconsultant (JDH) will perform the visual observation of the digesters and Sludge 
Storage Tank. Field assessment of the digesters and Sludge Storage Tank by BC’s subconsultant 
(JDH) will be conducted in three separate mobilizations, pending timing of digesters cleaning. 
Visual inspection is nondestructive, will include interior and exterior inspection of the surfaces of 
the digesters and Sludge Storage Tank and document viewed defects, such as, cracks, pits, 
deformations, and coating failures. Photographic documentation will also be recorded and 
included in a report. Visible inspection is limited to areas visible from the identified entry point. 
It is assumed that BC’s subconsultant (JDH)will install scaffolding inside Digester 2 for use in 
internal inspection of the digester. With a scaffolding system erected, BC’s subconsultant (JDH) 
will perform UT testing, dry film thickness testing and pit depth measurements inside Digester 2. 
BC will evaluate other options for internal condition inspection of the digesters and the City 
may revisit the scope at a later time. 
Results from the site investigation and condition assessment effort will be incorporated into Task 
4 when developing alternatives. 
Task 3 Deliverables:
•
Email summary after process mechanical and electrical inspection (electronic), final results 
TM is included in Task 4 deliverables. 
•
Results of digester condition assessment test results in a memo completed by JDH, 
including a figure indicating the location(s) of where the UT tests was performed, if 
scaffolding is installed. (electronic). 
Task 3 Assumptions:
243 of 585

--- page 244 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 8 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
Information provided to BC by the City will not be reviewed by BC for quality or accuracy 
and will be used as provided.
•
Sludge heating recirculation piping and loop will not require a condition assessment 
(active construction project). 
•
Buried infrastructure will not be assessed. 
•
CFD modeling will not be performed for the digester mixers
•
BC will estimate useful life of major equipment based on industry standards. 
•
City staff will be responsible for opening and closing valves, providing access to 
equipment. 
•
Seismic evaluations are not included in the assessment.
•
City will provide cutsheet and submittal data for all equipment to be assessed.
•
City will provide an asset list and maintenance history for all equipment to be assessed.
•
City will provide data from Digester 1’s corrosion system. 
•
City will accompany BC during the site visit and be available for questions to assist with the 
assessment. 
•
Condition assessment of existing assets will be based on visual observation of the portions 
of the assets that can be viewed without removal of it or other equipment.
•
BC’s subconsultant (JDH) will provide confined space entry supervision and rescue for 
entrance to the digesters and sludge storage tank.
•
BC’s subconsultant (JDH) will provide equipment for confined space entry such as safety 
harness, davit, tripod, retrieval ropes, fans, radios, multi-gas meters, and appropriate PPE 
for digesters and Sludge Storage Tank.
•
Access to digester, heat loop, and biogas system mechanical equipment will not require 
confined space entry. 
•
Permitting is not expected as part of this task. 
•
Concrete sampling of the Sludge Storage is not included in this task. 
•
Three (3) mobilizations will be needed for the visual condition assessment of interior of 
Digesters 1 and 2, and the Sludge Storage Tank performed by BC’s subconsultant. 
•
Budget assumes that for Digester 2, Subconsultant will install scaffolding and perform UT 
testing at every quadrant and spaced every 20 feet vertically inside each digester.  BC will 
evaluate other options for internal condition inspection of the digesters and the City may 
revisit the scope at a later time.  
•
The digester mixers will be removed by the digester cleaning Contractor. 
•
Exterior digester insulation will remain intact and will not be cut.
•
Cleaning and purging of the Sludge Storage Tank will be City’s responsibility. 
•
BC will visually inspect the external portions boiler and heat exchanger. Equipment will not 
be taken apart or moved for inspection. 
•
City is responsible for lockout/tagout procedures. 
•
City will provide access for condition assessment effort. 
•
It is assumed that Digester 2 has already been cleaned and purged by the City and ready 
for internal inspection. 
244 of 585

--- page 245 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 9 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
If the field investigation is delayed by the City or unsafe weather conditions, BC may 
require additional project management budget due to the extended schedule.
Task 4– Reporting
BC will prepare technical memoranda that summarizes inspection results, digestion and 
biogas alternatives, alternative screening and evaluation methodology, and an 
implementation plan. These technical memoranda will be combined into a final report.
Task 4.1 Digestion System Inspection TM 
BC will provide a TM summarizing the condition assessment (Task 3) of the anaerobic digestion 
system, observations, and results. The TM will document observations and recommendations 
from the site visit, inspections, and condition assessment. A workshop (Task 1.3) will be 
conducted to review preliminary results and identified rehabilitation and improvements, and 
the City will provide feedback. Evaluation and criticality criteria will be established during the 
workshop to provide a basis for the identified improvements. BC will incorporate feedback 
from the City and provide a final TM.
Task 4.1 Deliverables:
•
One draft and Final Digestion System Inspection/Condition Assessment TM (Electronic 
Word and PDF)
•
Documentation obtained as a result of condition assessment and inspections from Task 
3 (Electronic PDF)
Task 4.1 Assumptions: 
•
BC will build upon the subconsultant (JDH)’s condition assessment report and identify 
structural rehabilitation recommendations of the digesters. 
•
BC will summarize identified improvements regarding the process mechanical and 
electrical equipment (condition of the equipment will be documented in field notes 
included as an attachment).   
•
City review comments will be coordinated and compiled in MS Word or Excel and 
provided to BC within 10 business days after receipt of submittal. City will resolve any 
conflicting review comments. 
Task 4.2 Flows and Loads Projections 
BC will develop flows and loads projections for the solids and biogas processes. BC will request 
and review historical data and future growth projections to estimate future biosolids and 
biogas projections, characteristics, and volumes for use in the BC:SWEET model Task 4.5. 
Projections will be developed prior to a workshop for review and feedback by the City.
BC will review the provided existing solids process information and establish baseline 
operations and unit process performance. Flow and load projections will be developed for use 
in evaluating future technologies and capacities for biosolids handling. BC will evaluate 
process capacities using projected flows and loads. Findings from this task will help establish 
the baseline conditions for the BC:SWEET modeling. 
BC will produce a TM to document the flows and loads and capacity evaluation for the solids. 
Task 4.2 Deliverables:
245 of 585

--- page 246 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 10 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
One Draft and Final Flows and Loads and Capacity Evaluation TM (electronic word 
and PDF)
Task 4.2 Assumptions:
•
City will provide three (3) years of historical data including solids production, 
wastewater influent concentrations and population growth projections. 
•
City will provide three (3) years of historical data for both before and after operation 
including thickening performance, digester performance, biogas production, 
natural gas utilization, dewatering performance, and biosolids production.
•
City will provide three (3) years of monitoring data, including fecal coliform, volatile 
solids, time, biogas content, temperature, total nitrogen, ammonia, total 
phosphorus, and heavy metals.
•
Information provided to BC by the City will not be reviewed by BC for quality or 
accuracy and will be used as provided.
•
City will provide unit process information and equipment sizing in the form of 
specifications, drawings, or photos.
•
BC will begin this task after biological nutrient removal project is in operation for a 
minimum of 2 months. City will provide the data listed above. 
•
City will provide a consolidated set of comments 10 business days after submittal of 
the draft TM for review.
Task 4.3 Capacity Evaluation 
Using the developed current and projected flows and loads established in Task 4.2, BC will 
evaluate the following and consider if or when additional capacity is needed:  
•
Capacity of the existing solids treatment units, including primary and secondary 
sludge pumping capacity, digesters, sludge thickening, and sludge dewatering.
•
Digester gas production, boiler capacity, and capacity of flares. Air permit 
limitations will also be reviewed.
BC will present the results from Tasks 4.2 and 4.3 in a workshop. The workshop will review the 
flows and loads and capacity evaluations following delivery of the draft TM from Task 4.2. 
Deliverables:
•
Workshop agenda, presentation materials and meeting minutes (Electronic Word 
and PDF)
Task 4.3 Assumptions:
•
Information provided to BC by the City will not be reviewed by BC for quality or 
accuracy and will be used as provided.
•
Capacity evaluation of process piping such as digester gas, digested sludge or hot 
water, is not included.  
•
Travel time and other direct costs are included in the budget. 
•
Workshops is assumed to be up to 2-hours duration each with hybrid virtual and in-
person attendance for up to four (4) BC staff. City PM will be responsible to invite the 
required City staff attendees. 
246 of 585

--- page 247 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 11 of 15
Rev 11/18
Task 4.4 Alternatives Development TM
BC will develop alternatives for the City’s anaerobic digestion system and biogas utilization, 
which may include a combination of the following:
•
Improvements recommended to maintain reliability and operability of the digestion 
system and correct damage and deficiencies observed in Task 3. 
•
Digester mixer replacement alternatives that are supported by the manufacturer. 
•
Co-Digestion Improvements – As determined by this project’s Market Assessment (Task 
4.4.1), BC will determine the feasibility of feedstock-receiving infrastructure. 
•
Upgrading biogas to renewable natural gas (RNG) and injecting back into the Pacific 
Gas and Electric (PG&E) natural gas grid. 
•
Utilizing treated biogas to feed the WWTP’s heating and offset natural gas demands. 
•
Internal Combustion Engines. 
•
Microturbines. 
•
Biosolids processing improvements to achieve Class A product: 
-
Thermal hydrolysis process
-
Thermal drying
-
Thermophilic digestion
The following subtasks (4.4.1 to 4.4.3) describe BC’s approach to document the technical 
feasibility and risks of implementation (or non-implementation) for the alternatives developed. 
The findings from Tasks 4.4.1 to 4.4.3 will be documented in a TM summarizing the anaerobic 
digestion and biogas utilization alternatives, market assessment, regulatory and permitting 
requirements, and economic benefits/impacts.
Task 4.4 Deliverables:
•
One draft and Final Alternatives Development TM summarizing Tasks 4.4.1 to 4.4.3 
(Electronic Word and PDF)
Task 4.4 Assumptions:
•
City and BC will finalize and document the alternatives (up to 8 biosolids and up to 3 
biogas) selected in a workshop using in final meeting minutes. Draft meeting minutes will 
be presented to the City, and final meeting minutes will incorporate comments from the 
City.
•
City review comments will be coordinated and compiled in MS Word or Excel and 
provided within 10 business days after receipt of submittal. City will resolve any 
conflicting review comments. 
•
BC will update previously conducted biosolids end use market surveys conducted in the 
area within the past year. Services do not include new outreach to service providers. 
•
BC will not conduct outreach to potential fats, oils and grease (FOG) or food waste 
haulers to identify available feedstock volumes. Characterization of feedstock (such as 
%VS, % TS, COD) will be based on industry experience. 
Task 4.4.1 Market Assessment
BC will perform a market assessment for biogas and digester co-digestion feedstocks. The 
analysis will include:
•
Evaluating biogas value as electricity, heat, and RNG, taking into account technology 
efficiency
247 of 585

--- page 248 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 12 of 15
Rev 11/18
•
The feasibility of implementing a food waste/organic slurry/fats, oil and grease receiving 
program and potential quantities of materials based on available digester capacity. 
Additional biogas generated will be considered as part of the biogas utilization 
alternatives economic assessment (Task 4.4.4)
•
Review regulations applicable to potential end uses for biosolids alternatives and 
current regulatory trends. The review will document regulatory changes and impacts on 
current and future solids handling practices, including key dates for regulatory 
compliance, enforcement, and critical decisions for potential changes to City’s 
biosolids handling practices.
BC will present the current state of the end use market in the region leveraging previously 
conducted market surveys conducted in the area. The findings of this effort will be presented 
in a workshop (budgeted in Task 1.3) prior to conducting the screening and alternatives 
analysis. BC will conduct a review of the commercial market for biosolids products. The review 
will include:
•
Renewable Energy Credits (REC), Renewable Identification Numbers, and carbon 
offsets, as they relate to renewable energy production, including considerations for 
Western Renewable Energy Generation Information System (WREGIS) and the REC 
marketplace 
•
Identification of beneficial biosolids use goals, opportunities, and demand for Class A 
biosolids.
•
Evaluation of current and projected future regional competition for Class A and Class B 
biosolids markets. The benefits of a Class A biosolids product will be documented.
Task 4.4.2 Regulatory and Permitting Assessment
BC will conduct a review of regulations applicable to potential end uses for biosolids 
alternatives and current regulatory trends. The review will document regulatory changes and 
impacts on current and future solids handling practices, including key dates for regulatory 
compliance, enforcement, and critical decisions for potential changes to City’s biosolids 
handling practices. BC will determine potential permits and regulations associated with the 
improvement alternatives, including:
•
Bay Area Air Quality Management District exhaust emissions requirements for up to 
three (3) biogas utilization and new co-digestion facility.
•
California Department of Food and Agriculture inedible kitchen grease for co-digestion 
program.
•
Evolving regulations, particularly regulatory impacts related to organic waste diversion 
from landfills (SB 1383) and possible impacts resulting from per- and poly- fluoroalkyl 
substances in biosolids will be considered. REC, Renewable Identification Numbers, and 
carbon offsets, as they relate to renewable energy production, including considerations 
for WREGIS and the REC marketplace. 
Task 4.4.3 Economic Assessment
BC will identify economic costs and benefits of implementing digestion system improvements, 
co-digestion program, and biogas utilization alternatives. Lifecycle costs will be estimated the 
alternatives chosen by the City in the Technology Screening Workshop, inclusive of capital 
cost, ongoing operations and maintenance costs, and avoided costs (electricity, natural gas) 
or revenues (renewable identification numbers, RNG). BC will estimate capital costs of projects 
248 of 585

--- page 249 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 13 of 15
Rev 11/18
based on other similar recent projects and adjusted for escalation.  BC will identify possible 
grants, credits, and loans available from federal, state, and local programs such as the 
Inflation Reduction Act, Self-Generation Incentive Program, Renewable Fuel Standard, 
Renewable Electricity Certificates, California Energy Commission and Low Carbon Fuel 
Standard. 
The scope assumes up to eight (8) biosolids alternatives (including co-digestion) and up to 
three (3) biogas utilization alternatives.
Task 4.4.4 Screening and Evaluation Criteria
BC will work with the City to develop both screening criteria and evaluation criteria. The 
screening criteria, or fatal flaw criteria, will be used to determine which solids treatment and 
biogas utilization technologies will be carried forward to the alternatives analysis. The 
evaluation criteria will include both economic and non-economic criteria will supplement the 
decision-making process and will be used to rank alternatives.
BC will perform the technology screening and confirm the shortlist of viable options to further 
evaluate in Task 4.5. The shortlisted alternatives will be confirmed with the City in the 
Technology Screening Workshop (budgeted in Task 1.3). 
The screening evaluation will include:  
•
Technical overview of each alternative
•
Advantages and disadvantages of each alternative
•
Reliability considerations, including possible specialized training/expertise required for 
operation
•
O&M considerations
•
Regulatory considerations
•
Potential to leverage outside funding sources (e.g., grants)
•
Where appropriate, best-in-class examples of other facilities that use the alternative 
technology
BC will work with the City to develop evaluation criteria that will be used to rank the shortlisted 
alternatives in Task 4.5, Alternatives Analysis and Implementation. The preliminary list of 
non-economic criteria will be developed and presented as part of the Screening and 
Evaluation Criteria workshop (budgeted in Task 1.3). The City will provide feedback on the 
relative importance of the criteria and their prioritization in the overall decision-making 
process. The goal of this workshop is to establish clear evaluation criteria and confirm the 
methodology with all City stakeholders, which will be used to screen and rank the digestion 
and biogas alternatives.
Non-economic criteria will consider social and environmental impacts such as odor potential, 
energy resiliency, air emissions, traffic, consumption of non-renewable resources, offsets of 
non-renewables through biosolids, residuals or biogas beneficial use, etc. Evaluation criteria 
may also include operational considerations such as reliability, flexibility, ease of operation, 
maintenance requirements, regulatory risks, etc. 
Task 4.5 Alternatives Analysis and Implementation Plan
BC will identify solids processing alternative paired with biogas alternatives and perform a net 
present value analysis for up to 11 combinations of alternatives using BC’s Solids, Water, Energy 
249 of 585

--- page 250 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 14 of 15
Rev 11/18
Evaluation Tool (BC:SWEET). The BC:SWEET tool facilitates an integrated and comprehensive 
approach to biosolids and energy planning that considers capital and O&M costs, from solids 
processing through final disposition of biosolids, to develop lifecycle costs. It also simplifies 
“what if” scenario analyses that allows the City to understand tradeoffs of various options 
easily. 
The 20-year NPV analysis will reflect the lifecycle cost of the alternative and include capital, 
operating and maintenance costs, and revenue or cost savings. Initial alternatives will be 
ranked using the economic and non-economic evaluation criteria developed in conjunction 
with the City. The alternatives evaluation will consider alternatives and/or combinations of 
alternatives with production of Class A and/or Class B biosolids. Regulatory and permitting 
constraints will be considered during this evaluation. Sensitivity to tipping fees, market 
conditions, and electricity costs will be assessed, and findings will be presented to the City. BC 
will provide a recommended alternative or combination of alternatives based on the ranking 
and screening criteria. Of the alternatives developed, up to three (3) biosolids alternatives and 
one (1) biogas utilization alternative will be selected for more detailed refinement during the 
Initial Alternatives Evaluation Workshop.
The three (3) selected solids alternatives and one (1) biogas utilization alternative will then be 
further developed to identify: facility site layouts, facility needs (including electrical impacts), 
potential funding opportunities process, capital costs based on vendor budgetary proposals, 
flow diagrams, impacts on downstream and upstream processes. BC will develop a Planning 
Level (AACE Class 5) opinion of probable construction costs for the 3 + 1 alternatives and 
recommended facilities, inclusive of engineering, project management, construction 
management, construction costs, escalation, and contingencies. 
A 10-year phasing and implementation plan for the 3 + 1 alternatives will be developed based 
on the time- lines and triggers developed under the planning level assumptions. Non-
economic criteria will be applied to differentiate and rank amongst alternatives. The three 
refined alternatives will be presented in the Refined Alternatives Evaluation Workshop with the 
City to identify the preferred alternative and plan.
Task 4.5 Deliverables:
•
One draft and Final Alternatives Analysis TM (Electronic Word and PDF)
Task 4.5 Assumptions:
•
BC will use its proprietary BC:SWEET model. A summary of model input and output 
will be provided in the TM. The model (software) is BC intellectual property and will 
not be provided to the City This assumption holds for all phases in this scope. 
•
City and BC will finalize and document the alternatives decided for refined 
alternatives analysis in final meeting minutes. Draft meeting minutes will be 
presented to the City, and final meeting minutes will incorporate comments from 
the City then be sent to the City. 
•
The City will provide a soft cost factor with BC to be applied to the construction cost 
estimates, contributing to the total project cost.
•
NPV will capture 20-year life cycle costs. 
•
Draft and final TM will be submitted electronically in PDF format.
•
City review comments will be coordinated and compiled in MS Word or Excel and 
provided within 10 business days after receipt of submittal. City will resolve any 
conflicting review comments. 
250 of 585

--- page 251 ---
Professional Services – Biogas and Biosolids Eval (B&C)
Page 15 of 15
Rev 11/18
Task 4.6 Final Report Preparation
BC will develop a capital improvements implementation plan for the selected alternative. This 
planning roadmap will identify possible CIP projects based on results from the condition 
assessment and biosolids and biogas alternatives evaluation, include a recommendation for a 
co-digestion program, funding timelines, and integrate any regulatory and market triggers. BC 
will lead a workshop to solicit feedback on the draft CIP plan prior to finalization. 
BC will provide a final report, which will include the following:
•
The vision for biogas utilization and potential energy recovery
•
The combined technical memoranda produced in Task 4
•
An executive summary of all technical memoranda
•
CIP roadmap
Task 4.6 Deliverables:
•
One draft and Final Biosolids and Biogas Capital Improvements Implementation Plan 
Report (Electronic Word and PDF)
Task 4.6 Assumptions:
•
Draft Report will be submitted to the City ahead of the Workshop.
•
BC will include TMs from other phases identified in this amendment as attachments 
to the Capital Improvement Implementation Plan TM. These TM attachments will be 
referenced, as necessary, to complete the Capital Improvement Implementation 
Plan TM.
•
City review comments will be coordinated and compiled in MS Word or Excel and 
provided within 10 business days after receipt of submittal. City will resolve any 
conflicting review comments. 
251 of 585

--- page 252 ---
Page 1 of 4
EXHIBIT B
PROJECT SCHEDULE
The project schedule is approximately 17 months. 
252 of 585

--- page 253 ---
Task 3 Evslustion: and Field Tue 8/19/25
Background Date Review Thu 12/12/24
Site interviews ii Fri 22/13/24

Visual Inspection

Digester 2 Condition Assessment Fri 4/94/25
[assumed w/sceffalding)

Startup Digester 2 Fri 2/28/25

Prepare for Sludge Holding Tank Fri 3/14/25
Shutdown

Sludge Holding Tank Condition Fri 4/24/25
Assessment (assumed with

scaffolding)

Startup Sludge Holding Tank Fri 4/25/25

Digester 1 Condition Assessment
[assumed w/scaffolding)
Task 4 Reporting

Task 4.1 Digestion System Inspection

Wed 9/24/25
Wed 10/8/25
Wed 10/15/25
Wed 9/10/25
Thu 5/1/25

Thu 5/15/25

Oucutom—only ME tart
Do Manual Semeay hcl, a fienh-cely
anual Semray TT “tte tne

Page 2 of 4

253 of 585


--- page 254 ---
ee = ' Prsecars | Uy adaaL al TTS ale eT daa anlanl SI Lasdan S12 Loads AT Las LaaLal ts Pola Land TS doaLaad eet sada RTs Lael ST Peles Ts ad alae
Fr Submis TM to City day Tue 7/2205 Tue 7/2225
56 Finelize Th dwk Wed 6/6/25. Tue 8/12/25
7 Market Actessment and Regulatory 2idays Wed 8/13/25 Wed 9/10/25
Review:
9 Market Assessment awks Wed 8/13/25 Tue 9/9/25
9 Workshop Lday Wed 8/10/25 Wed 9/10/25 SB
ao Screening and Evaluation Criteria days © Mon6/16/25 Mon 6/30/25 Screening
61 Development 2wks Mon 6/26/25 = Fri 6/27/25 50
a Workshop. ‘day Mon 6/20/25 Mon6/30/25 61
a Task 4.3 Alternatives Analysis 102days Wed 8/10/25 Thu 1/29/26
a Fatal Flaw Screening Lidays © Wed 9/10/25 Wed 9/24/25
& Screening Develapment 2 wis Wed 9/10/25 Tue 9/25/25 58
Fa Technology Screening Workshop day Wed 9/24/25 Wed9/24/25 5
a Initital Alternatives Analysis Aldeys Thu 3/25/25 Thu 14/20/25
eo Internal OC wk Thy 10/30/25 Wed 11/5/25
70 Cost Estimating Lwic Thu 20/30/25 Wed 11/5/25
7 Incorporate: Costs into Alts, 2wks The 11/6/25 9 Wed 11/79/25 6g
Develop Warkshap Materials
Fd Initial Alts Warkshop idey Tho 11/20/25 Thu 11/20/75 ral
aE] Refined Alternatives Anolysis SOdeys = Fri1d/2af25 9 Thu 1/29/26
74 Refine Inyouts 3 wis Fly2u25 Thwla/tie5 72
Ww Internal OC wk Fri 1/9/26 Thu 1/15/26
78 Submis TM to City Lday FiMG26 Fri ALGV26 7
Project: San Mateo Biogas andl Tank a Pd *Csinactnve Mitton Ourution—onhy eat cC eternal Milevtone > Maral Progrew —<=<=
Date Fa 10/4/24 Slt cootesntteneee Projectiommmy I 1 etietimmay =k 1 Meu Sommer ch TS Finish-cnby 1 Dentine +
Mtesicem ry Inactive Toe Marna Tank es BE a
Page 3

Page 3 of 4

254 of 585


--- page 255 ---
ck Narne

Task 4.4 Final Report Preparation

Develop CIP

Draft TH

DS sony FF inactive Mitentone

certeteeertioeer Project Summary PF tnactive Summary

* Inactiew Tani Marval Tank

Page 4 of 4

255 of 585


--- page 256 ---
EXHIBIT C
COST SCHEDULE

c
a
e
i
a
A
u

Deanna Tanner

Payal alba

i ~ u 5 - H W a

¢ q 4 . a i 3

a 5 é 3 ; 3 . Total Labor | Total Labor

Srn19 S290 $424.93 SBS 1d SYTRE3 «$35.22 S315 76. «$233.35 S25955 «= SUBD31 «= SUEZ «SMS 89 SUNS $361.59 «= SMD539—$28235
100 General Services 1% 56 1 2 2h 2 fi io Pi} i} 0 i} i} i} 0 M2 = 170233 4.00 i} i16 475,378
110 Project Management and Progress Reporing 1H 188 Fm 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mm (W728 0 0 1 WA
20 Quality Coniral 4 i} fi 0 0 i} 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 i} 0 0 é 7683 0 0 0 7883
120 Workshops and Meetings i] i} ii 1 R Hit 2B fii 10 pi} 0 0 0 1 0 0 ub Wer 4300 0 316 106.382
200 Digester Cleaning Design Es] i} i} 0 iB i} i B 2 4 6 % 16 vl 0 502 104,428 ww 0 ii 104,785
240 Bid Package Develooment Ei i} 0 0 B i} 8 2 6 2 4 i a 16 0 0 a 50077 0 0 0 577
22) Bid Period Assistance § i} i! ! id i} 0 2 4 i} i! ! 2 i} q 0 it 10,788 10 0 15 10.903
23) Engineering Services During Digester Cleaning iT i} 0 0 8 i} 0 4 0 0 0 i i} il 0 in 53 #2) 0 22 055
300 Evaluations and Field investizations 4 i} i} 0 4 i} 2 7 i 4 0 i} i} 6 0 m 4357 M 5510 8700 BRT
me Default 8 i} i! 0 4 i} 2 7 i 4 0 0 1 i 0 04.307 20 00 87000 W37
400 Reporting ri) i} 2 26 fp] a 64 R 8 4 dH fi Q iK ti) fi 19) AGT 10 i} 15 AGT 20
410 Digestion System Inspection TM 2 i} 0 0 4 i} 4 4 i a 4 2 0 4 4 0 if 3480 0 0 0 9.89
42) Flaws and Loads Projections 4 i} i! 4 id q 4 0 0 i} i! 2 0 16 q 0 2 06,328 0 0 0 6,228
43) Capacity Evaluation 2 i} 0 pa i] i} 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 16 0 0 76 4h 100 0 16 a6
44) Alternatives Development TM Ei i} iH % 2 2 0 0 0 4 2 0 a q 0 i 130,487 0 0 0 MA?
45) As Analysis and Implementation Plan (i i} 2 i in a 4 8 i Q 2 2 Q i i 0 oY) Seb 0 q q iat
480 Final Report Preparation 4 i} 4 4 fi H 1 0 4 4 2 Q 16 4 0 2B 50 0 0 q Had
BUDGET TOTAL 3 136 i a6 516 a ry 16 § 18 fi ri 6 i EH o) 340006573 5,020 500 AGT 4,249,180
Hours and Dollars are rounded to nearest whole number.

Page 1 of 1

256 of 585



--- page 257 ---
Page 1 of 2
EXHIBIT D
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease. 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 or equivalent forms if later revisions used). 
257 of 585

--- page 258 ---
Page 2 of 2
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
Waiver of Subrogation
Except for professional liability, CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation 
which any insurer of said CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any 
loss under such insurance.  CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
effect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
258 of 585

--- page 259 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-9217
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Public Works EV Street Sweeper — Purchase
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a purchase contract with Terry 
Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of one new EV Street Sweeper in the amount of $884,403.88; establish a contingency 
reserve in the amount of $50,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase contract in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Field Maintenance Division is responsible for 200 miles of City streets, and a critical maintenance 
function is regular street cleaning. Regular street cleaning creates a safer environment for the community, removes litter, 
and reduces airborne pollutants and allergens. The City currently operates two diesel-powered street sweepers and 
conducts regular cleaning of the entire City streets infrastructure on a weekly schedule. 
As part of our Green Fleet transition, staff consistently explore electric alternatives during the procurement process and 
aim to replace vehicles with battery electric or alternative-fueled technologies whenever possible. The Public Works Field 
Maintenance Division requests to replace one aging diesel street sweeper with a modern battery electric version. This new 
battery electric sweeper will provide the same level of service currently enjoyed by the San Mateo community, performing 
these duties with zero emissions while reducing airborne pollutants, allergens, and noise levels. 
Through rigorous testing of available models, staff has selected the Global R4 EV Regenerative Air Sweeper. This model 
outperformed the competition and is the only EV unit in its class to offer a vacuum-style system, which ensures a higher 
standard of debris, airborne pollutant, and allergen removal. Other Bay Area municipalities and Caltrans have successfully 
implemented daily street sweeping operations with Global Battery Electric Street Sweepers. 
The City has applied for and been awarded a Transportation For Clean Air Grant by the City/County Association of 
Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG). On November 18, 2024, City Council will also be recommended to approve 
acceptance of the Transportation For Clean Air Grant in the amount of $254,293.33 for this Electric Street Sweeper project 
to support the purchase of the Global R4 EV Street Sweeper.
Staff utilized Sourcewell pricing through Terry Equipment, Inc. for the purchase of the Global R4 EV Street Sweeper. 
Through this pricing structure, the City realizes cost savings off manufacturer’s suggested retail price. San Mateo Municipal 
Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve an alternative purchasing procedure when it finds 
doing so is in the best interest of the City. Sourcewell is a government organization that solicits, receives, and reviews 
competitive bids for various specialty equipment, including the Global R4 EV Street Sweeper. Sourcewell has conducted 
competitive public bids to select vehicle vendors to achieve competitive pricing and has selected Terry Equipment, Inc. The 
259 of 585

--- page 260 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City may rely on bids obtained from Sourcewell because it has solicited, received, and reviewed competitive bids for the 
desired Global R4 EV Street Sweeper through its cooperative purchasing program. Based on the above, staff recommends 
the purchase of this Global R4 EV Street Sweeper from Terry Equipment, Inc.
A quote of $884,403.88 to procure the EV Street Sweeper is included in the purchase agreement. A contingency reserve is 
being requested to address any price fluctuations from market instability that may occur between the time the original 
quote was submitted to the time the contract is executed.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding in the amount of $254,293.33 will be provided by a C/CAG awarded Transportation for Clear Air grant accepted 
and appropriated by Council at the November 18, 2024 Council Meeting. If approved, these grant funds will reduce the 
City’s cost to $630,110.55. If the acceptance of the grant funding is not approved, the total cost for the City will be 
$884,403.88. There is sufficient funding in the Solid Waste Fund to cover either cost for the City listed above.
As payment for the sweeper is due upon delivery, which is currently estimated to take 52 weeks, the appropriation from 
the Solid Waste Fund will be incorporated into the FY 2025-26 Operating budget as part of the budget development 
process. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This purchase is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that the purchase and deployment of 
EV Street Sweepers will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Purchase Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Daniel Heffelfinger, Fleet Services Supervisor
dheffelfinger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7366
Stephen Wu, Acting Facilities and Fleet Service Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7345
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director 
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7287
260 of 585

--- page 261 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
APPROVE AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE PURCHASE OF ONE (1) NEW GLOBAL R4 EV 
STREET SWEEPER WITH TERRY EQUIPMENT, INC. IN THE AMOUNT OF $884,403.88
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the purchase of one (1) new Global R4 
Street Sweeper in the amount of $884,403.88; and
WHEREAS, the Global R4 Street Sweeper with the specifications and capabilities meet the requirements 
of the City; and
WHEREAS, the City has applied for and received a Transportation For Clean Air Grant awarded by the 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) for the procurement of an electric street 
sweeper; and
WHEREAS, on November 18, 2024 the City Council approved the acceptance of C/CAG award of 
Transportation For Clean Air Grant in the amount of $254,293.33 for the purchase of one (1) new Global R4 
Street Sweeper; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve 
alternative purchasing procedures when it is in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly NJPA) offers services to make the government procurement process 
more efficient through cooperative purchasing: and
 WHEREAS, use of Sourcewell – Contract #093021-GEP offers competitive pricing for Global R4 Street 
Sweeper; and
WHEREAS, Terry Equipment, Inc. is the sole authorized dealership in Northern California for the Global 
R4 Street Sweeper; and
WHEREAS, Terry Equipment, Inc. is agreeable to fulfilling Sourcewell - Contract #093021-GEP for the 
Global R4 Street Sweeper; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends approval of the purchase of one (1) new 
Global R4 Street Sweeper from Terry Equipment, Inc. because it is in the best interest of the City without 
standard competitive bid practice.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA,
HEREBY RESOLVES that: 
1.
The purchase of one (1) new Global R4 Street Sweeper is not a project subject to CEQA because 
purchase and deployment of an EV Street Sweeper is an activity that will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of one (1) new Global 
R4 Street Sweeper from Terry Equipment, Inc. based on pricing from Sourcewell is in the City’s 
best interest for these reasons:
261 of 585

--- page 262 ---
a.
The Global R4 Street Sweeper is the sole manufacturer for the Public Works Field 
Maintenance Division’s desired vehicle; and
b.
Sourcewell competitively bid the contracts to provide the listed vehicle and Global R4 Street 
Sweeper was selected; and 
c.
The City has obtained competitive pricing for one (1) Global R4 Street Sweeper through 
Sourcewell – Contract #093021-GEP which will be fulfilled by Terry Equipment, Inc.
3.
The procedure utilized by staff to obtain Sourcewell – Contract # 093021-GEP for the purchase 
of one (1) Global R4 Street Sweeper from Terry Equipment, Inc. is approved in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3).
4.
The purchase of one (1) new Global R4 Street Sweeper in the amount of $884,403.88, with a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $50,000, is approved.
5.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the purchase contract in substantially the 
same form on behalf of the City.
262 of 585

--- page 263 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 8
Rev 1/24
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR PURCHASE OF EV STREET SWEEPER
FROM TERRY EQUIPMENT, INC.
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and TERRY EQUIPMENT, INC., a Corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase an EV Street Sweeper as hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide these EV Street Sweeper by reason of its 
qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms and 
in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
263 of 585

--- page 264 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 8
Rev 1/24
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. City of San Mateo Corporation Yard 1961 Pacific Blvd. San Mateo Ca. 
94403.  Transportation charges shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. The VENDOR’S duty to indemnify shall survive 
expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
264 of 585

--- page 265 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 8
Rev 1/24
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
265 of 585

--- page 266 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 8
Rev 1/24
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
266 of 585

--- page 267 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 8
Rev 1/24
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
VENDOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection with 
VENDOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by VENDOR, or is based upon 
VENDOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate VENDOR for preparation for testimony, testimony, and 
travel at VENDOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Daniel Heffelfinger,
Fleet Services Supervisor
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo Ca. 94403
To VENDOR:
Terry Equipment, Inc.
Attn: Russell Dysard
4 Wayne Court, 
Sacramento CA 95829
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
267 of 585

--- page 268 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 8
Rev 1/24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and TERRY EQUIPMENT, INC. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Matt Fabry
Public Works Director
Date
Russell Dysard
Northern Area Manager 
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
268 of 585

--- page 269 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 7 of 8
Rev 1/24
269 of 585

--- page 270 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 8 of 8
Rev 1/24
270 of 585

--- page 271 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 24-9168
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant — Grant Acceptance and Budget Appropriation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept and appropriate City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County’s 
Transportation Fund for Clean Air (TFCA) Grant funding in the amount of $254,293.33 to the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper 
Replacement Project; approve the 2024-2025 TFCA Funding Agreement with the City/County Association of Governments; 
and authorize the City Manager to execute all required grant documents in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On May 29, 2024, the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County (C/CAG) released a Call for Projects 
for grant funding from the Transportation Fund for Clean Air (TFCA) funds. The funds through this grant program are 
intended to: 1) reduce air pollution, including air toxics such as benzene and diesel particulates; 2) conserve energy and 
help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; 3) improve water quality by decreasing contaminated runoff from roadways; 4) 
improve transportation options; and 5) reduce traffic congestion.
The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) is authorized under Health and Safety Code Section 44223 to 
levy a fee on motor vehicles. Funds generated by the fee are referred to as the TFCA funds. They are used to implement 
projects that reduce air pollution from motor vehicles. Health and Safety Code Section 44241(d) provides that at least forty 
percent (40%) of funds generated within a county where the fee is in effect shall be allocated by the BAAQMD to one or 
more public agencies designated to receive the funds. For San Mateo County, C/CAG has been designated as the 
administrating agency to receive the funds. 
The TFCA Grant solicited proposals for multiple eligible project types. One of the eligible project types is “Clean air vehicles 
and electric and hydrogen recharging stations,” which includes alternative fuel and plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles, 
scrapping old vehicles, and alternative fuel infrastructure. 
On July 15, 2024, City Council approved a resolution to apply for C/CAG’s TFCA Grant program to replace a diesel street 
sweeper with a battery electric street sweeper, which has an estimated total purchase cost of $884,403.88.
The funds will help fund the replacement of an existing diesel-powered street sweeper with a cleaner, quieter, and PM-10 
(pollution reduction) compliant battery electric street sweeper. This change will have a significant positive effect on the 
environment for the San Mateo community and beyond. It will directly reduce pollution in the forms of carbon dioxide, 
hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides, dust, and pollen, while significantly reducing noise pollution from street sweeping/cleaning 
operations. This initiative aligns with local, regional, and statewide goals to eliminate fossil fuel dependance and transition 
to alternative fuels (EV) fleet. 
271 of 585

--- page 272 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On November 14, 2024, at the Board meeting, C/CAG approved $254,293.33 in grant funding to the City for the purchase 
of the battery electric street sweeper. To receive the grant funds, the City is required to execute the attached grant 
agreement that requires, in part, providing the balance of the total cost in local matching funds ($630,110.55). Based on 
the above, staff recommends that the City Council approve a resolution to accept and appropriate funding awarded by 
C/CAG to the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project and authorizing the City Manager to execute all 
necessary grant agreement documents. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Due to the timing of the City’s budget development process and confirmation of the grant award, the San Mateo EV Street 
Sweeper Replacement Project was not included in the FY 2024-25 Operating Budget. Adoption of this Resolution will 
authorize the acceptance and appropriation of the $254,293.33 grant award. The necessary City contribution to cover the 
remaining cost to purchase the EV Sweeper will be appropriated from the fund balance of the Solid Waste Fund in an 
estimated amount of $630,110.55. Sufficient funding is available in the Solid Waste Fund balance for this appropriation. 
Payment for the sweeper is due upon delivery, which is currently estimated to take 52 weeks. Due to the timing of the 
delivery, the appropriation from the Solid Waste Fund will be incorporated into the FY 2025-26 Operating Budget as part 
of the budget development process.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The acceptance of grant funds, and appropriation of the grant funds to the Solid Waste Fund is not a project subject to 
CEQA, because it consists of a government fiscal activity that does not involve any commitment to any specific project 
which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Daniel Heffelfinger, Fleet Services Supervisor   
dheffelfinger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7366
Stephen Wu, Acting Facilities and Fleet Service Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7345
Deryk Daquigan, Deputy Public Works Director  
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7287 
272 of 585

--- page 273 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2024)
ACCEPTING GRANT FUNDS AND APPROVING AN AGREEMENT FOR TRANSPORTATION FOR CLEAN AIR GRANT 
FUNDS WITH THE CITY/COUNTY ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS OF SAN MATEO 
COUNTY IN THE AMOUNT OF $254,293.33 AND APPROPRIATING THE GRANT FUNDS TO THE SOLID WASTE 
FUND
WHEREAS, the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County issued a call for grant 
applications for a total distribution amount of $1,000,000.00 in Transportation Clean Air Grant Funding; and
WHEREAS, the City applied to the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County for 
Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant Funding for the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project 
which will replace one of the City’s Diesel Street Sweeper with a Battery Electric Street Sweeper; and  
WHEREAS, the City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County has awarded the City a 
grant in the amount of $254,293.33 for the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project; and
WHEREAS, the City is required to enter into an agreement with the City/County Association of 
Governments of San Mateo County to accept a Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant award in the amount of 
$254,293.33 for the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project; and
WHEREAS, the City is required to provide the balance of the remaining total project cost in local 
matching funds estimated in an amount of $630,110.55, which has been identified and available in the Solid 
Waste Fund; and
WHEREAS, payment for the EV Sweeper is due upon delivery, which is currently estimated to take 52 
weeks; and
WHEREAS, staff requests appropriating the matching funds from the Solid Waste Fund through the 
budget development process for Fiscal Year 2025-26 to align with the timing of delivery and payment; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends accepting and approving an agreement for 
the Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant award with the City/County Association of Governments of San 
Mateo County in the amount of $254,293.33 and appropriating the grant funds to the Solid Waste Fund for the 
San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The acceptance of grant funds and appropriation of the grant funds to the Solid Waste Fund is 
not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of a government fiscal activity that does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
2.
Acceptance of the Transportation Fund for Clean Air Grant award and an agreement with the 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County for grant funding in the amount 
of $254,293.33 is approved.
273 of 585

--- page 274 ---
3.
Appropriation of the grant funding in the amount of $254,293.33 to the Solid Waste Fund for 
the San Mateo EV Street Sweeper Replacement Project is authorized.
4.
The City Manager is authorized to execute all required grant documents in substantially the 
form presented.
274 of 585

--- page 275 ---
275 of 585

--- page 276 ---
276 of 585

--- page 277 ---
277 of 585

--- page 278 ---
278 of 585

--- page 279 ---
279 of 585

--- page 280 ---
280 of 585

--- page 281 ---
281 of 585

--- page 282 ---
282 of 585

--- page 283 ---
283 of 585

--- page 284 ---
Section 2. Project Category Specific Questions
N. If aridesharing, first- and last-mile connections service, pilot trip reduction, transit information,
telecommuting or infrastructure improvement project, explain how the number of vehicle trips that will be
reduced by the project was estimated, and provide supporting information and data to justify the estimate.
For example, if the Project Sponsor is not using default assumptions, they should provide data based ona
pre-project survey, focus groups, or other sources to document user demand, pre-project mode of travel,
average length of vehicle trip, etc.
O. If an alternative fuel vehicle project, provide the following information:
a. Vehicle Type: Battery Electric Street Sweeper
Gross Vehicle Weight Rating 32,000 Pounds
c. Vehicle Replacement Project — This project will aid in reducing greenhouse gases and localized
pollution within our communities.
d. Replacement will be utilized on a daily route scheduled throughout the City of San Mateo.

P. Ifa first- and last-mile connections service project, confirm that the service will comply with all the following
requirements:

C1 Service connects directly to a transit station and a distinct commercial or employment location.

U1 Service schedule coordinates with the mass transit’s schedule.

LI Service is available for use by all members of the public.

C1 Service is at least 70% unique and operates where no other service was provided within the past three years.

Q. Ifa pilot trip reduction project, confirm that the project complies with all the following requirements:

O Project will reduce single-occupancy vehicle trips and result in a reduction in emissions of criteria pollutants.

LI Service is available for use by all members of the public.

L] Applicant provided a written plan showing how the service will be financed in the future and require minimal, if
any, TFCA funds to maintain its operation by the end of the third year.

C1 If the local transit provider is not a partner, the applicant demonstrated that they have attempted to have the
service provided by the local transit agency. The transit provider was given the first right of refusal and
determined that the proposed project does not conflict with existing service.

L] Applicant provided data and/or other evidence demonstrating the public’s need for the service, such as a
demand assessment survey and letters of support from potential users.

L] Service is at least 70% unique and operates where no other service was provided within the past three years.

R. Ifa bicycle parking project, answer the following questions:

TFCA Agreement — 25SM04 San Mateo’s Battery Electric Street Sweeper
Page 10 of 13

284 of 585


--- page 285 ---
285 of 585

--- page 286 ---
286 of 585

--- page 287 ---
287 of 585

--- page 288 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4661-01
File ID: 24-9281
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right of Way Update - Ordinance Introduction and Policy Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 17.10 "Wireless Communications Facilities 
in the Public Right-Of-Way;" and adopt a Resolution approving a City Council Policy establishing procedural and 
substantive rules for small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way.
BACKGROUND:
Small wireless facilities (SWFs) are those that meet certain Federal Communications Commission (FCC) criteria, namely (1) 
specified height limits for the support structure on which they are mounted, (2) each antenna is no more than three cubic 
feet in volume, (3) all other wireless equipment associated with the support structure is no more than 28 cubic feet in 
volume, (4) the facilities does not require technical registration requirements, (5) the facilities are not located on tribal 
lands, and (5) the facilities do not result in human exposure to radiofrequency (RF) radiation in excess of applicable safety 
standards. A discussion of the history of federal and state laws and court decisions applicable to SWFs is included as 
Attachment 4. 
On July 16, 2018, the City adopted San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 17.10 “Wireless Communications Facilities 
in the Public Right-of-Way” (Ordinance) that established a process for review and approval of wireless telecommunication 
sites in the public right-of-way.  
After the Ordinance was adopted, the FCC adopted a Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, FCC-18-133 (the 
Small Cell Order). The Small Cell Order imposed various new requirements on municipalities, which included a “technical 
feasibility” caveat to local aesthetic authority and a new “shot clock” for SWFs that required approval or denial within 60 
days for SWFs proposed on existing structures and within 90 days for SWFs proposed on new support structures.  
In 2020, to comply with the Small Cell Order, the City began developing a new Ordinance and associated design standards. 
In 2021, the City amended the Ordinance and adopted the Design Standards and Application Requirements (Design 
Standards) currently in effect.  
In 2023, the City received numerous small cell permit applications, several of which were brought to the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission (SIC) for appeal hearings. Staff started receiving feedback from local community members and 
the industry about the permit applications and the Ordinance, including requests to amend the Ordinance, Design 
Standards, and the City’s review process for permit applications.  
From January to May 2024, City staff engaged the community and industry to receive input, and on May 6, 2024, City staff 
provided a presentation to Council at a study session that was focused on the feedback received on the existing Ordinance 
288 of 585

--- page 289 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and Design Standards. Staff received direction from City Council regarding possible amendments and revisions to the 
Ordinance and Design Standards. Furthermore, in response to much of the public feedback, City Council directed staff to 
consider the City of Encinitas’ wireless Ordinance when drafting revisions.  
An update to the City’s Ordinance and Design Standards (Update, included as Attachments 1-3) has been drafted to 
incorporate City Council direction, community input, industry input (telecom providers with active master license 
agreements with the City), and staff’s experience to-date processing applications.  
THE DRAFT UPDATE: 
Based on review and consideration of all input as described above, the City Attorney’s Office (CAO) retained Telecom Law 
Firm, PC, which drafted the City of Encinitas’ wireless Ordinance, and which recommended various changes to City 
regulations based on Council direction. The Update is the outcome of close coordination and review between the Public 
Works Department, attorneys from the CAO and outside counsel, and the City Manager’s Office. It proposes to amend the 
Ordinance and replace the Design Standards with a City policy regarding small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way 
(Policy). The Policy is recommended to be effective immediately with adoption of the Resolution. This will allow the City to 
timely update its standards and requirements, while awaiting the effective date of the Update, which is expected to occur 
in January 2025.  However, only sections of the Policy, which do not conflict with the City’s current Ordinance shall be 
effective. Although the Policy would be effective immediately, on the implementation front, staff will need to work as 
aggressively as possible to update the application and corresponding materials based on the new Policy.
Substantial Code revisions include the following: 
1.
SMMC §17.10.030(d) – Small Wireless Facilities will be reviewed in accordance with the City Policy which replaces 
the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
2.
SMMC §17.10.070(g) – Appeals to be reviewed by a Public Hearing Officer rather than the SIC, and the appeal 
window has been extended from 5 days to 10 days. 
3.
SMMC §17.10.080(b) – A Public Hearing Officer will have discretion to modify or amend standard conditions of 
approvals.  
The Design Standards and Application Requirements document has been replaced with a City Policy modeled after the City 
of Encinitas. New formatting, organization, and standards have been included for easy reference and to remove conflicting 
standards. In general, the proposed City Policy is more restrictive than the existing Design Standards. The City Policy 
updates location preferences and designates Restricted Areas to facilitate setbacks from residential neighborhoods and 
schools. Submittal information and public noticing requirements have been increased. Public Utility Easements are no 
longer acceptable locations for a SWF. Consistent with federal requirements that the City not prohibit or effectively 
prohibit telecommunication services, an exception process is incorporated to allow applicants to request exceptions to any 
standard or requirement within the City Policy, but any exception must be requested upfront.  
The Update addresses City Council’s May 6, 2024, direction as follows: 
1.
Conformance to State Regulations: Comply with state mandated batch-processing rules. 
•
The Policy includes language that complies with batch-processing rules. Policy Section 6(i).  
2.
Definitions and Clarity: Explore objective design standards to make installations less intrusive. 
•
The Policy includes objective standards such as placement requirements for freestanding poles and 
definition of minimum heights for antennas installed on existing poles. Policy Sections 10 and 11. 
•
The Policy includes antenna height requirements to not allow placement of an antenna at a building 
window height elevation. Policy Section 11(h)(4).  
3.
Appeal Process: Use hearing officers to consider appeals and extend the appeal timeframe from 5 to 10 days. 
•
The Ordinance amendment replaces SIC with Hearing Officers for considering Director Decisions. SMMC 
§17.10.070(g). 
•
The Ordinance amendment extends the appeal window from 5 days to 10 days. SMMC §17.10.070(g). 
•
The Ordinance and Policy limit bases for appeals to Director findings. SMMC §17.10.070(g) and Policy 
289 of 585

--- page 290 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Section 8(d).  
4.
Public Notice and Outreach: Make on-site notices of proposed facilities more visible and in more languages. Use 
informed delivery for mailers. 
•
The Policy includes increased public noticing requirements for both site postings and mailed notices. Policy 
Section 7(b & c). 
•
The Policy includes the requirement that mailed notices utilize informed delivery for proof. Policy Section 
7(c). 
•
The Policy states staff will create and provide required public notice templates in multiple languages. 
Policy Section 7(b & c).  
5.
Objective Standards: Define “technically infeasible,” remove conflicting requirements, and clarify which standards 
apply to which design cases. 
•
The Policy defines “technical infeasibility” as a circumstance that is physically impossible. Policy Section 
3(gg). 
•
The Policy has been reviewed to avoid conflicting standards and clarify which standards apply to which 
design cases. Policy Section 11.  
6.
Facility Separation: Increase separation requirements while maintaining location flexibility. 
•
The Policy includes a 300-foot separation requirement between SWFs. Policy Section 10(a)(4).  
7.
Post-Construction: Require applicants to submit annual RF reports for each active facility. 
•
The Policy includes the standard condition for permittees to provide annual RF affirmation reports. Policy 
Section 9(a)(16).  
8.
Pole Options: Expand pole options to reduce impacts on the right-of-way, including more discretion to use 
freestanding poles when warranted. 
•
The Policy expands existing support structure options to include traffic signal poles. Policy Section 11(n). 
•
The Policy includes criteria to determine when a freestanding pole is preferable to an existing pole. Policy 
Section 10(g).  
9.
City Review Processes: Explore options to use third-party experts to assist with technical reviews. 
•
The Ordinance and Policy maintain the authority for the Director to retain independent expert consultants.
•
Staff has contracted with three on-call consultants to provide expert RF review services. 
•
Staff anticipates contracting with one or more firms to provide all-encompassing SWF review services.  
10. Installation Standard: Explore options to reduce the number of meter pedestals in the right-of-way. 
•
The Policy includes a preference for pole-mounted meters, or when a ground-mounted cabinet is required, 
to incorporate the meter within the same ground-mounted cabinet. Policy Section 11(m).  
11. Conformance to Other Regulations: Amend the design guidelines to be consistent with other application 
requirements. 
•
The Policy has been written to be consistent with other applicable regulations. Policy Section 11.  
12. Application Requirements: Revise application requirements to require all relevant information be submitted as 
part of the permit application for transparency and to allow staff and the public to better understand the proposal 
and feasible alternatives. 
•
The Policy includes a list of application requirements that have been increased and refined to require all 
information relevant to review for conformance with the Ordinance, Policy, and state and federal laws. 
Policy Section 6(b).  
290 of 585

--- page 291 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
13. Appeal Cost Recovery: Adopt an appeal fee that is minimal or not cost-prohibitive to the public. 
•
Staff proposes adoption of an appeal fee equal to other City appeal fees but less than actual costs 
incurred.  
14. Residential Category: Consolidate the definition of residential. 
•
The Policy considers all types of residential definitions by basing criteria on “residential” land uses, “mixed-
use” land uses, and “residential dwelling units” for restrictions. Policy Section 10(a & b).  
15. Restrictions Instead of Preferences: Explore language to specifically restrict areas instead of only listing location 
siting preferences. 
•
The Policy updates the location preferences with a new order of preference. Policy Section 10(a). 
•
The Policy includes “restricted areas” within the location requirements. Policy Section 10(b).  
16. Review the Encinitas Ordinance: Inquire what issues or problems the City of Encinitas has encountered through 
their wireless Ordinance. 
•
Staff has contacted the City of Encinitas and confirmed that they have not received any wireless 
applications since their Ordinance was adopted; therefore, issues or problems with their Ordinance cannot 
be confirmed.  
OCTOBER 2024 SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION FEEDBACK
On October 23, 2024, staff presented the proposed draft Ordinance and policy to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission (Commission). Below is a summary of the Commissions main comments:
•
The Commission voted 4-0 in favor of recommending the proposed Ordinance and Policy to City Council.
•
Commissioners understood the exception process is necessary to comply with federal requirements and will 
require additional staff time to review associated documentation, but also anticipate the exception 
review/approval process may be refined over time. 
•
The Commissioners thought the proposed draft Ordinance and policy was well balanced. 
•
The Commission recommended reorganizing portions of the Policy to minimize potential confusion. 
•
The definition of “technical infeasibility” should include language that considers safety limitations and other 
law/requirements. 
PUBLIC COMMENT SUMMMARY
The City released the proposed draft Ordinance and policy to the public for comment 14-days in advance of the October 
23, 2024, Commission meeting. Below is a summary of the comments received before and during the Commission 
meeting.
Summarized Comments Received Before the Commission Meeting
 
Community Comments
Industry Comments
•
Want to default all application reviews to 
consultants. 
•
Not in favor of restricted areas and the 
exception process. 
•
Expand the alternative site analysis to 500-feet. 
•
Not in favor of all reviews being done by 
consultants.  
•
Want stealthing requirements. 
•
Does not want annual RF affirmation. 
•
Want appeals to remain at the Sustainable and 
Infrastructure Commission. 
•
Does not want shrouding requirement 
due to signal interference 
291 of 585

--- page 292 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
•
Not in favor of height limitations, in 
particular the language that does not 
allow antennas to be installed within a 
residential dwelling unit’s window 
elevation.  
Community Summary: The community thinks the 
proposed policy and Ordinance should be more 
restrictive.  
Industry Summary: The industry thinks the 
proposed policy and Ordinance is too restrictive 
and burdensome.
Summarized Comments Received During the Commission Meeting 
A total of 12 public comments were received for the item, with general comments summarized, below:
•
The proposed Ordinance and policy would introduce restricted areas and make most of San Mateo off 
limits which could require exceptions for almost every application being submitted. 
•
Design standards should be expanded to include safety regulations from the California Public Utilities 
Commission. 
•
Recommend the City use consultants to review applications.
•
Stealthing requirements will prevent future modifications. 
•
Increase the amount of photo simulations required.
•
Prefer the Commission to review appeals. 
•
Everyone uses wireless communication technology, and the policy should not be so restrictive to prevent 
infrastructure growth. 
•
The proposed 300-feet restriction from residential, daycare and schools seem too restrictive and will 
increase cost and resources for infrastructure buildout. 
As a result of the comments from the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission, the public, and industry, staff made 
minor edits to the policy.  Substantive changes include the following.
•
Technical Infeasibility Definition – Included language about other regulations and safety considerations.
•
Photo Simulations – Expanded photo simulation requirements to include all feasible locations in the alternative 
site analysis.
•
Location Preference and Restricted Sites – Reorganized the sequence so restricted sites are listed before location 
preferences. 
EFFECTIVE DATE OF UPDATED RULES
Proposed Ordinance:  consistent with state law, if the City Council introduces and then adopts the proposed Ordinance, it 
would become effective thirty days later.  If introduced this evening, the Ordinance is tentatively scheduled for adoption 
on December 9, 2024, in which case it would go into effect in January 2025.  
Proposed Policy: most of the proposed Policy would go into effect immediately upon adoption of the Resolution.  This 
includes regulations addressing location standards, design standards, preapproved designs, and the exception process.  
Additional provisions covering applicability of the Policy, application and review procedures, conditions of approval, and 
other sections would also become effective right away.  Two portions of the Policy governing public notices and decisions 
would only be effective when the companion Ordinance goes into effect, due to need to modify existing Ordinance 
provisions that cover the same subject matter. Although the Policy would be effective immediately, on the 
implementation front, staff will need to work as aggressively as possible to update the application and corresponding 
materials based on the new Policy.
292 of 585

--- page 293 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: 
Based on the above, staff recommends that the City Council introduce an Ordinance to amend Chapter 17.10 “Wireless 
Communication Facilities in the Public Right-of Way” and adopt a Resolution approving a City Council Policy establishing 
procedural and substantive rules for small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way.  
 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with review of the proposed Ordinance and Policy update. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance introduction and City Policy adoption by Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)). In addition, small cell facilities are categorically exempt from CEQA as they ether are (1) 
minor alterations of existing facilities, (2) replacements of existing structures where the new structure will be located in 
the same site and have substantially the same purpose, or (3) construction and location of new small facilities or 
structures. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, 15302, 15303). 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance SMMC 17.10 Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 
Att 2 - Redline of SMMC 17.10 Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 
Att 3 - Resolution Adopting City Council Policy
Att 4 - History of Wireless Small Cell Facilities 
Att 5 - Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
Jason Hallare, Senior Engineer
jhallare@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7316
293 of 585

--- page 294 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, APPROVING 
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 17.10 (“WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY”), TITLE 17 THE OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
WHEREAS, pursuant to the California Constitution, Article XI, section 7; California Government Code 
Section 37100 and other applicable law, the City Council of the City of San Mateo (“City Council”) may make and 
enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary and other ordinances, resolutions and other regulations not in 
conflict with general laws; and
WHEREAS, the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(B), preserves local 
government zoning authority as it relates to location and siting of wireless communication facilities, but limits 
local regulations in three key ways: (1) a local ordinance may not unreasonably discriminate among providers of 
functionally equivalent services; (2) a local ordinance may not prohibit or effectively prohibit service; and (3) a 
local ordinance may not regulate based on environmental impacts from radio frequency emissions; and
WHEREAS, the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. § 253 prohibits state and local 
requirements that prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity’s ability to provide any telecommunication service 
but preserves the authority of state and local governments to manage the public right-of-way on a 
nondiscriminatory basis; and
WHEREAS, Section 7901 of the California Public Utilities Code grants telephone corporations the limited 
right to use the public right-of-way to the extent necessary to provide services to their customers in a manner 
that does not incommode the public’s use of the public right-of-way; and
WHEREAS, Section 7901.1 of the California Public Utilities Code bolsters the rights reserved to California 
local governments under Section 7901 and affirms local authority to manage, on a nondiscriminatory basis, the 
time, place and manner in which telephone corporations access the public right-of-way and deploy their 
facilities; and
WHEREAS, since the enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, significant changes have 
occurred in federal and state laws that affect local authority over personal wireless service facilities; and
WHEREAS, on July 16, 2018, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2018-5, which added Chapter 17.10 
to the San Mateo Municipal Code and regulated wireless communications facilities in the public right-of-way; 
and
WHEREAS, on June 21, 2021, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2021-18, which amended various 
provisions in Chapter 17.10 in response to contemporaneous changes in law and technologies, including a new 
Section 17.10.120 (“Review of Ordinance”) that authorized the City Council to “amend . . . Chapter [17.10] or 
[the City’s] rules or policies by resolution after a change to the FCC’s regulations or standards, or any applicable 
state or federal laws”; and
WHEREAS, given the rapid and substantial changes in applicable state laws and FCC regulations since the 
City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2021-18, the active and effective federal prohibition on reasonable 
294 of 585

--- page 295 ---
moratorium ordinances to allow local public agencies to study these changes and develop appropriate responses 
and the significant adverse consequences for noncompliance with these changes in applicable law, and in 
response to practical experience processing applications for wireless facilities under the San Mateo Municipal 
Code, the City Council desires to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 by adopting this Ordinance 
No. 2024-[XXXX] (this “Ordinance”) to allow the City greater flexibility and responsiveness to these federal and 
state laws in order to preserve the City’s traditional authority to the maximum extent practicable; and
WHEREAS, amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 by adopting this Ordinance will allow 
the City Council to quickly and efficiently adopt administrative policies that provide clear procedures for wireless 
communications facilities bolster the City’s policies and regulations concerning public health, safety and welfare 
and the aesthetic character of the City; and
WHEREAS, consolidating all its regulations for wireless communications facilities in the public right-of-
way into a single policy will tend to make the regulations easier to locate, understand and apply for all 
stakeholders; and
WHEREAS, amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 by adopting this Ordinance neither 
materially limits a person’s ability to provide or receive wireless communications services nor creates unfair 
competition among wireless telecommunications service providers; and
WHEREAS, amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 by adopting this Ordinance will, to the 
extent permitted by federal and California state law, protect and promote public health, safety, and welfare, and 
also balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced wireless services with the City’s local values, which 
includes without limitation the aesthetic character of the City, its neighborhoods and community; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission considered the proposed 
Ordinance at a duly noticed public hearing on October 23, 2024, and by a vote of 4-0 recommended the City 
Council approve the proposed Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10; and
WHEREAS, on November 18, 2024, the City Council conducted a duly noticed public hearing to take 
public testimony and consider the introduction of this Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
17.10 by adopting this Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Findings. The City Council finds that: (a) the facts set forth in the recitals in this Ordinance are true 
and correct and hereby incorporated by this reference; (b) the recitals constitute findings in this matter and, 
together with the staff report, other written reports, public testimony and other information contained in the 
record, are an adequate and appropriate evidentiary basis for the actions taken in this Ordinance; (c) the 
provisions in this Ordinance and San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 as amended are consistent with the 
San Mateo General Plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and applicable federal and state law; and (d) neither 
this Ordinance nor San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 as amended will be detrimental to the public 
interest, health, safety, convenience or welfare.
Section 2. Section 17.10.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
295 of 585

--- page 296 ---
17.10.020 General Definitions
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Chapter will have the meanings assigned to 
them in this Section unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Section will 
have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not 
defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term 
or word in this Section conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated 
definition will control.
(a) Base Station means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(1), as may be amended.
(b) City Council means the City Council of the City of San Mateo.
(c) Collocation means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.60002(g), as may be amended.
(d) CPUC means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California Constitution, 
Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
(e) Design Standards and Application Requirements means the aesthetic and design standards and the 
wireless permit application requirements for wireless facilities adopted by the Director of Public Works, 
consistent with this Chapter.
(f) Director means the Director of Public Works of the City of San Mateo, or the Director's designee.
(g) FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.
(h) FCC Shot Clock means the reasonable time frame within which the City generally must act on a given 
wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended from time to time.
(i) Wireless Permit means the permit issued by the Department of Public Works for any work required in 
the public right-of-way for the installation or in support or otherwise related to a wireless facility, consistent 
with the Design Standards and Application Requirements and City Council Policy. 
(j) Personal Wireless Services means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be 
amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and common 
carrier wireless exchange access services.
(k) Personal Wireless Service Facilities means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may 
be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal wireless services.
(l) Pole License or City Pole License means the license that the department of public works may issue for 
any wireless facility installation on a City-owned pole located within the public right of way, consistent with the 
requirements of this Chapter.
(m) Public right-of-way or City right-of-way means any public street, public way, public alley, or public 
place and the space on, above or below it, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, under the 
ownership or control of the city of San Mateo and in its jurisdiction.
296 of 585

--- page 297 ---
(n) RF means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz in the 
electromagnetic spectrum range or otherwise within applicable legal exposure standards and limits.
(o) Section 6409 means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Pub. 
L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as may be amended.
(p) Small Cell Wireless Facility(ies) means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(l), as 
may be amended.
(q) Temporary Wireless Facilities means portable wireless facilities intended or used to provide 
personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis
(r) Tower means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(9), as may be amended.
(s) Transmission equipment means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(8), as may 
be amended.
(t) Wireless means any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service transmitted over 
frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
(u) City Council Policy means a policy adopted by resolution pursuant to this Chapter which authorizes 
the City Council to adopt procedural and substantive rules for small wireless facilities deployment with the City 
of San Mateo.
Section 3. Section 17.10.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.030 Applicability
(a) Applicable Wireless Facilities. The provisions in this Chapter shall be applied to all wireless facilities, 
including, without limitation, all new facilities and existing facilities, within the City's public rights-of-way, 
including small cell wireless facilities, and all applications to construct, install, operate, collocate, modify, 
reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy wireless facilities within the City's public rights-of-way, including 
Section 6409 requests, except as may be expressly provided otherwise in this Chapter.
(b) Exempt Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), the provisions in this Chapter will 
not be applicable to: (1) wireless facilities not proposed or currently located in the public right-of-way; (2) 
wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for public purposes; (3) amateur radio facilities; and (4) 
wireless facilities or equipment owned and operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for use in 
connection with electrical power generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject to CPUC General 
Order 131-D.
(c) Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), all requests for 
approval to collocate, replace, or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station 
located in the public right-of-way and submitted pursuant to Section 6409 will be reviewed under the general 
wireless permit application procedures provided in this Chapter, as well as the special Section 6409 provisions 
provided in Section 17.10.110 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
297 of 585

--- page 298 ---
(d) Special Provisions for Small Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), all small 
wireless facilities within the City’s public rights-of-way are subject to a permit as specified in a City Council 
Policy, which may be adopted, amended and/or repealed by a resolution of the City Council. All small wireless 
facilities within the City’s public rights-of-way shall comply with the City Council’s Policy. If a City Council Policy 
regulating small wireless facilities within the City’s rights-of-way is not adopted, or is otherwise repealed after 
adoption and not replaced, an application for a small wireless facility within the City’s public rights-of-way shall 
be processed pursuant to the provisions in this Chapter.
Section 4. Subsection (a) of Section 17.10.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.040 Required Approvals
(a) Wireless Permit. A wireless permit, subject to the City's prior review and approval in accordance with 
the procedures in this Chapter, the City Council Policy, and the City's Design Standards and Application 
Requirements, is required for any applicant seeking to construct, install, modify, maintain or engage in an 
activity relating to a wireless facility in, on, under, or above the public right-of-way prior to conducting any work 
related to such wireless facility.
Section 5. Section 17.10.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.050 Application Process and Requirements
(a) Permit Application Form. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed wireless permit 
application in a form approved by the City, which may be updated from time to time by the Director.
(b) Generally Applicable Design Standards and Application Requirements. All new wireless facilities and 
collocations, modifications or other changes to existing wireless facilities must conform to the City's Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, which may be updated from time to time by the Director to be 
necessary or appropriate to process any application governed under this Chapter, as authorized by the city 
council.
(c) City Council Policy.  All new wireless facilities, or other changes to existing wireless facilities must 
comply with the City Policy, which may be adopted and updated by City Council resolution. 
(d) Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. Any application for a wireless permit will not be considered 
duly filed or complete unless submitted in accordance with any and all written rules and policies the City may 
adopt consistent with this Chapter, including but not limited to the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements and City Council Policy.
(e) Notice.  Within three (3) calendar days of submitting an application for a wireless permit, the 
applicant shall provide written notice by U.S. mail informed delivery to all property owners and residents within 
a  500' radius of the proposed project site.  In addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) 
locations near the project site.  The content of the notice shall be in a form approved by the city and include 
information as specified in the Design Standards and Application Requirements and City Council Policy, including 
but not limited to: 1) a general description of the proposed improvements and other equipment to be 
constructed or installed, and proposed site location; 2) applicant's contact information for property owners and 
298 of 585

--- page 299 ---
residents to submit comments regarding the project and the timeline to do so; 3) city's webpage to access and 
be notified of decisions on applications;  and 4) right to appeal a decision and timeline to do so.
Notices shall be in English and in other languages as deemed appropriate by the city. The applicant shall 
provide documentation of satisfaction of the notification requirement to the City prior to approval of the 
wireless permit.
(f) Additional Procedures. The City Council authorizes the Director to establish any other forms and 
procedures relating to the implementation of this Chapter.
Section 6. Section 17.10.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.070 Decisions, Decision Notices, Limited Exceptions, Protests, Appeals
(a) Decisions. The Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a complete application for a 
wireless permit. A wireless permit shall be acted on within all processing timelines required by the FCC shot 
clocks, applicable state or federal laws, or other applicable timelines.
(b) Required Findings for Approval. The Director may approve or conditionally approve an application for 
a wireless permit submitted under this Chapter when the Director finds all of the following:
(1) the applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable requirements of 
this Chapter, the City Council Policy, and the City Design Standards and Application Requirements; and
(2) the application is deemed complete by the Director; and
(3) the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, 
regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building 
Standards Code or any local building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health 
and safety requirements, including Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules 
may be amended or superseded); General Plan and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo 
Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other governmental approval issued 
by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
(4) the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with 
all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions.
(c) Conditional Approvals; Denials without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal or California laws, 
nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the Director's ability to conditionally approve or deny without 
prejudice any application governed under this Chapter as may be necessary or appropriate to protect and 
promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any 
specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this Section.
(d) Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. In the event that an applicant claims that 
strict compliance with this Chapter and the Design Standards and Application Requirements would effectively 
prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception 
299 of 585

--- page 300 ---
from such requirements in accordance with the required findings provided in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
(e) Decision Notices to the Applicant. After the director acts on an application, and within the timeframe 
provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever 
occurs first), the Director or designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the Director 
denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must contain: (1) the 
reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
(f) Decision Notice to Public.  The decision on an application along with the appeal process, shall be 
posted on the city's webpage on the same date as the decision is made. Notices to property owners and 
residents within 500' of the project site shall be sent within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
(g) Appeals. The applicant or any person who is a property owner or resident within 500' of the project 
site may appeal any decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for a wireless permit. Appeals 
must be filed with the City Clerk  within ten calendar days following the Director's decision. Payment of the 
appeal hearing fee pursuant to the City’s Adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule must be made prior to the 
scheduling of the appeal hearing. The appeal for hearing before a hearing officer shall be set at the next 
available date, or otherwise within a time frame needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. 
Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on environmental effects 
from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations, or as provided in the City Council Policy.  The 
hearing officer shall review the appeal de novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof to establish the 
basis for seeking a reversal of the Director's decision, and issue a decision at the hearing. The hearing officer’s 
decision shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
Section 7. Section 17.10.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval
(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or 
deemed granted by law shall be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in the 
City Council Policy and/or the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the  hearing officer on appeal) shall have 
discretion to modify or amend any standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary 
or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of 
the approved wireless facility, maintain compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies 
in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this Chapter.
Section 8. Section 17.10.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.090 Revocation; Abandonment
(a) Revocation. Any wireless permit, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way granted under 
this Chapter may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
300 of 585

--- page 301 ---
(1) Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director.
(2) Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has 
lapsed.
(3) Required Findings. The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right 
to use, if it makes any of the findings provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(4) Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(5) A permittee whose permit or right has been revoked may have the revocation reviewed, 
upon written appeal to the Director as set forth in this Chapter.
(b) Abandonment. Wireless facilities no longer used to provide service shall be removed by the last 
known owner of record of such facility, at the sole cost of said owner and to the satisfaction of the City.
Section 9. Section 17.10.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.120 Review of Ordinance
Wireless communications technology is currently subject to rapid change. Innovations may render the 
need for specific sections of this Chapter to be reviewed and revised. The City Council may amend this Chapter 
by ordinance or its rules and policies by resolution after a change to the FCC's regulations or standards, or any 
applicable state or federal laws.
Section 10. Section 17.10.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
Section 11. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), this action is exempt from CEQA review, in that it can be seen with certainty 
that there is no possibility that this ordinance amendment may have a significant effect on the environment.
Section 12. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 13. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 14. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
301 of 585

--- page 302 ---
Chapter 17.10
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
17.10.010 Purpose and Intent
(a) The City of San Mateo intends this Chapter 17.10 to establish reasonable, uniform 
and comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, construction, 
installation, collocation, modification, operation, relocation, and removal within the City's public 
right-of-way, consistent with and to the extent permitted under federal and California state law. 
Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7), the City may not regulate the placement, construction, and 
modification of wireless service facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio 
frequency emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal Communications 
Commission's regulations concerning such emissions. To the extent permitted by federal law, 
the standards and procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should be applied 
to, protect and promote public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that flow 
from robust, advanced wireless services with the City's local values, which include without 
limitation, the aesthetic character of the City, its neighborhoods and community. This Chapter is 
also intended to reflect and promote the community interest by (1) ensuring that the balance 
between public and private interest is maintained on a case-by-case basis; (2) protecting the 
City's visual character from potential adverse impacts or visual blight created or exacerbated by 
wireless communications infrastructure; (3) protecting and preserving the City's environmental 
resources; and (4) promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for the City's 
residents, businesses and visitors.
(b) This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: (1) prohibit or 
effectively prohibit any personal wireless service provider's ability to provide personal wireless 
services; (2) prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide any interstate or 
intrastate telecommunications service, subject to any competitively neutral and 
nondiscriminatory rules, regulations or other legal requirements for rights-of-way management; 
(3) unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services; (4) deny any 
request for authorization to place, construct or modify personal wireless service facilities on the 
basis of environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such wireless 
facilities comply with existing or future FCC's regulations concerning such emissions; (5) prohibit 
any collocation or modification that the City may not deny under federal or California state law; 
(6) impose any unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory or anticompetitive fees that exceed the 
reasonable cost to provide the services for which the fee is charged; or (7) otherwise authorize 
the City to preempt any applicable federal or California law.
17.10.020 General Definitions
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Chapter will have the 
meanings assigned to them in this Section unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined 
phrases, terms or words in this Section will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 
153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary 
meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in this Section 
302 of 585

--- page 303 ---
conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated definition 
will control.
(a) Base Station means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(1), 
as may be amended.
(b) City Council means the City Council of the City of San Mateo.
(c) Collocation means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.60002(g), as 
may be amended.
(d) CPUC means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California 
Constitution, Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
(e) Design Standards and Application Requirements means the aesthetic and design 
standards and the wireless permit application requirements for wireless facilities adopted by the 
Director of Public Works, consistent with this Chapter.
(f) Director means the Director of Public Works of the City of San Mateo, or the 
Director's designee.
(g) FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed 
successor agency.
(h) FCC Shot Clock means the reasonable time frame within which the City generally 
must act on a given wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended from 
time to time.
(i) Wireless Permit means the permit issued by the Department of Public Works for any 
work required in the public right-of-way for the installation or in support or otherwise related to a 
wireless facility, consistent with the Design Standards and Application Requirements and City 
Council Policy. adopted by the Director of Public Works consistent with this Chapter.
(j) Personal Wireless Services means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 
332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, 
unlicensed wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
(k) Personal Wireless Service Facilities means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 
332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal 
wireless services.
(l) Pole License or City Pole License means the license that the department of public 
works may issue for any wireless facility installation on a City-owned pole located within the 
public right of way, consistent with the requirements of this Chapter.
303 of 585

--- page 304 ---
(m) Public right-of-way or City right-of-way means any public street, public way, 
public alley, or public place and the space on, above or below it, and all extensions thereof, and 
additions thereto, under the ownership or control of the city of San Mateo and in its jurisdiction.
(n) RF means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves generally between 30 kHz and 
300 GHz in the electromagnetic spectrum range or otherwise within applicable legal exposure 
standards and limits.
(o) Section 6409 means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job 
Creation Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as 
may be amended.
(p) Small Cell Wireless Facility(ies) means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 
C.F.R. § 1.6002(l), as may be amended.
(q) Temporary Wireless Facilities means portable wireless facilities intended or used 
to provide personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis
(r) Tower means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(9), as may 
be amended.
(s) Transmission equipment means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.6100(b)(8), as may be amended.
(t) Wireless means any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service 
transmitted over frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
(t)(u) City Council Policy means a policy adopted by resolution pursuant to this Chapter 
which authorizes the City Council to adopt procedural and substantive rules for small wireless 
facilities deployment with the City of San Mateo.
17.10.030 Applicability
(a) Applicable Wireless Facilities. The provisions in this Chapter shall be applied to all 
wireless facilities, including, without limitation, all new facilities and existing facilities, within the 
City's public rights-of-way, including small cell wireless facilities, and all applications to 
construct, install, operate, collocate, modify, reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy wireless 
facilities within the City's public rights-of-way, including Section 6409 requests, except as may 
be expressly provided otherwise in this Chapter.
(b) Exempt Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), the provisions in 
this Chapter will not be applicable to: (1) wireless facilities not proposed or currently located in 
the public right-of-way; (2) wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for public 
purposes; (3) amateur radio facilities; and (4) wireless facilities or equipment owned and 
operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for use in connection with electrical power 
generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject to CPUC General Order 131-D.
304 of 585

--- page 305 ---
(c) Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals. Notwithstanding Section 
17.10.030(a), all requests for approval to collocate, replace, or remove transmission equipment 
at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way and submitted 
pursuant to Section 6409 will be reviewed under the general wireless permit application 
procedures provided in this Chapter, as well as the special Section 6409 provisions provided in 
Section 17.10.110 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(c)(d) Special Provisions for Small Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 
17.10.030(a), all small wireless facilities within the City’s public rights-of-way are subject to a 
permit as specified in a City Council Ppolicy, which may be adopted, amended and/or repealed 
by a resolution of the City Council. All small wireless facilities within the City’s public rights-of-
way shall comply with the City Council’s Ppolicy. If a City Council Ppolicy regulating small 
wireless facilities within the City’s rights-of-way is not adopted, or is otherwise repealed after 
adoption and not replaced, an application for a small wireless facility within the City’s public 
rights-of-way shall be processed pursuant to the provisions in this Chapter.
17.10.040 Required Approvals
(a) Wireless Permit. A wireless permit, subject to the City's prior review and approval in 
accordance with the procedures in this Chapter, the City Council Policy, and the City's Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, is required for any applicant seeking to construct, 
install, modify, maintain or engage in an activity relating to a wireless facility in, on, under, or 
above the public right-of-way prior to conducting any work related to such wireless facility.
(b) City Pole License. Before any wireless facility is installed on a City owned pole 
located within the public right-of-way, wireless communications providers shall obtain a City pole 
license by entering into a master license agreement with the City in a form as approved by the 
City attorney, for the use of a City pole in a specified license area, and pay a license fee subject 
to the City's fee schedule. Any applicant seeking a master license agreement shall additionally 
pay a master license agreement administrative fee subject to the City's fee schedule to 
reimburse the City for reasonable costs in connection with its preparation, review of, and action 
upon the request for such an agreement. The applicant seeking a City pole license must also 
apply for and obtain a wireless permit.
(c) Other Permits and Regulatory Approvals. In addition to any permit or approval 
required under this Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals 
as may be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which includes 
without limitation any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments or 
divisions. Furthermore, any permit or approval granted under this Chapter or deemed to be 
granted or approved by law shall remain subject to any and all lawful conditions and/or legal 
requirements associated with such other permits or approvals.
(d) Fees. All required fees, security instruments, and cash deposits related to the 
wireless permit, the City pole license, and other required permits and approvals consistent with 
this Chapter must be paid in full or be satisfied in order for a wireless permit or a City pole 
305 of 585

--- page 306 ---
license to be issued by the City. In addition, City may seek reimbursement of the actual 
reasonable costs related to licensing, permitting, and administering wireless facilities in the 
public right-of-way as set by the City Council. Failure to comply with this provision shall be a 
basis to deny, revoke, or terminate the wireless permit, the City pole license or other applicable 
permit.
17.10.050 Application Process and Requirements
(a) Permit Application Form. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed 
wireless permit application in a form approved by the City, which may be updated from time to 
time by the Director.
(b) Generally Applicable Design Standards and Application Requirements. All new 
wireless facilities and collocations, modifications or other changes to existing wireless facilities 
must conform to the City's Design Standards and Application Requirements, which may be 
updated from time to time by the Director to be necessary or appropriate to process any 
application governed under this Chapter, as authorized by the city council.
(b)(c) City Council Policy.  All new wireless facilities, or other changes to existing 
wireless facilities must comply with the City Council Policy, which may be adopted and updated 
by City Council resolution. 
(c)(d) Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. Any application for a wireless permit will 
not be considered duly filed or complete unless submitted in accordance with any and all written 
rules and policies the City may adopt consistent with this Chapter, including but not limited to 
the Design Standards and Application Requirements and City Council Policy.
(d)(e) Notice.  Within five three (35) calendar days of submitting an application for a 
wireless permit, the applicant shall provide written notice by first class U.S. mail informed 
delivery to all property owners and residents within a  500' radius of the proposed project site.  
In addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the project site.  
The content of the notice shall be in a form approved by the city and include information as 
specified in the Design Standards and Application Requirements and City Council Policy, 
including but not limited to: 1) a general description of the proposed improvements and other 
equipment to be constructed or installed, and proposed site location; 2) applicant's contact 
information for property owners and residents to submit comments regarding the project and the 
timeline to do so; 3) city's webpage to access and be notified of decisions on applications;  and 
4) right to appeal a decision and timeline to do so.
Notices shall be in English and in other languages as deemed appropriate by the city. 
The applicant shall provide documentation of satisfaction of the notification requirement to the 
City prior to approval of the wireless permit.
(e)(f) Additional Procedures. The City Council authorizes the Director to establish any 
other forms and procedures relating to the implementation of this Chapter.
306 of 585

--- page 307 ---
17.10.060 Peer and Independent Consultant Review
(a) Authorization. The City Council authorizes the Director, in the Director's discretion, to 
select and retain an independent consultant with specialized training, experience and/or 
expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any permit 
application.
(b) Scope. The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that 
involves specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or 
permit applications for wireless facilities, as further provided in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
(c) Consultant Fees; Deposit. In the event that the Director elects to retain an 
independent consultant in connection with any permit application, the applicant shall be 
responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided as detailed in the 
Design Standards and Application Requirements. The City shall not issue any construction or 
grading permit to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices.
17.10.070 Decisions, Decision Notices, Limited Exceptions, Protests, Appeals
(a) Decisions. The Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a complete 
application for a wireless permit. A wireless permit shall be acted on within all processing 
timelines required by the FCC shot clocks, applicable state or federal laws, or other applicable 
timelines.
(b) Required Findings for Approval. The Director may approve or conditionally approve 
an application for a wireless permit submitted under this Chapter when the Director finds all of 
the following:
(1) the applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable 
requirements of this Chapter, the City Council Policy, and the City Design Standards and 
Application Requirements; and
(2) the application is deemed complete by the Director; and
(3) the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and 
local laws, regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without 
limitation, the California Building Standards Code or any local building codes; the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety requirements, 
including Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be 
amended or superseded); General Plan and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo 
Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other governmental 
approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
307 of 585

--- page 308 ---
(4) the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in 
compliance with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF 
emissions.
(c) Conditional Approvals; Denials without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal or 
California laws, nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the Director's ability to conditionally 
approve or deny without prejudice any application governed under this Chapter as may be 
necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to 
advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo 
Municipal Code and/or this Section.
(d) Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. In the event that an 
applicant claims that strict compliance with this Chapter and the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal 
wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception from such requirements in 
accordance with the required findings provided in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(e) Decision Notices to the Applicant. After the director acts on an application, and within 
the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements or before the 
FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever occurs first), the Director or designee shall send a written 
notice to the applicant. In the event that the Director denies the application (with or without 
prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision and 
(2) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
(f) Decision Notice to Public.  The decision on an application along with the appeal 
process, shall be posted on the city's webpage on the same date as the decision is made. 
Notices to property owners and residents within 500' of the project site shall be sent within the 
timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(g) Appeals. The applicant or any person who is a property owner or resident within 500' 
of the project site may appeal any decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for 
a wireless permit. Appeals must be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission City Clerk  within five ten calendar days following the Director's 
decision. Payment of the appeal hearing fee pursuant to the City’s Adopted Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule must be made prior to the scheduling of the appeal hearing. The Secretary shall set 
the appeal for hearing on the agenda for the next regular or special meeting of the Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commissionbefore a hearing officer shall be set at the next available date, or 
otherwise within a time frame needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. 
Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations, or as 
provided in the City Council Policy.  The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissionhearing 
officer shall review the appeal de novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof to 
establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the Director's decision, and issue a decision at the 
308 of 585

--- page 309 ---
hearing. The decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissionhearing officer’s 
decision  shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval
(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or 
deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall be automatically subject to all standard 
conditions of approval as provided in the City Council Policy and/or Appendix C of the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the  Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commissionhearing officer on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend 
any standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or 
appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper 
operation of the approved wireless facility, maintain compliance with applicable laws and/or to 
advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo 
Municipal Code and/or this Chapter.
17.10.090 Revocation; Abandonment
(a) Revocation. Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the 
public right-of-way granted under this Chapter may be revoked or modified for cause in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(1) Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director.
(2) Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for 
any appeal has lapsed.
(3) Required Findings. The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole 
license, or right to use, if it makes any of the findings provided in the Design Standards 
and Application Requirements.
(4) Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation 
and mail the determination to the permittee within the timeframe provided in the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements.
(5) A permittee whose permit or right has been revoked may have the revocation 
reviewed, upon written appeal to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
Director as set forth in this Chapter.
(b) Abandonment. Wireless facilities no longer used to provide service shall be removed 
by the last known owner of record of such facility, at the sole cost of said owner and to the 
satisfaction of the City.
309 of 585

--- page 310 ---
17.10.100 Temporary Wireless Facilities
Temporary wireless facilities may be placed and operated within the City without a 
wireless permit only when a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official determines an 
emergency exists within a region that includes the City in whole or in part. The applicant must 
still obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may be required by any other federal, 
state or local government agencies, which includes without limitation other any other permits 
and/or approvals issued by other City departments or divisions. Any temporary wireless facilities 
placed pursuant to this Section must be removed within thirty calendar days after the date the 
emergency is lifted by a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official. Any person or 
entity that places temporary wireless facilities pursuant to this Section must send a written 
notice that identifies the site location and person responsible for its operation to the Director as 
soon as reasonably practicable.
17.10.110 Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals
(a) Applicability. This Section applies to all requests for approval to collocate, replace or 
remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the 
public rights-of-way submitted pursuant to Section 6409. For all such requests, the applicant 
shall seek a wireless permit under Section 17.10.040(a), and except for the notice requirements 
in Section 17.10.050(d), comply with all other requirements in this Chapter and any special 
Section 6409 requirements as provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Additional Section 6409 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Section 
17.10.020, the abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Section will have the 
following meanings assigned to them unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, 
terms or words in this Section will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as 
may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary 
meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in this Section 
conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated definition 
will control.
(1) Eligible Support Structure means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 
C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(4), as may be amended.
(2) Existing means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(5), 
as may be amended.
(3) Section 6409 request means all requests for approval to collocate, replace 
or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located 
in the public rights-of-way submitted pursuant to Section 6409.
(4) Substantial change or Substantially change means the same as defined 
by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended.
(c) Required Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove transmission 
equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way 
310 of 585

--- page 311 ---
submitted with a written request for approval under Section 6409 as indicated in the application 
form, shall require approval of a wireless permit under the general standards and procedures of 
this Chapter, unless specified otherwise or excepted, as well as any additional Section 6409 
special provisions as provided in this Section and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(d) Additional Required Findings for Section 6409 Request Approval. The city staff may 
approve or conditionally approve a wireless permit application for a Section 6409 request when 
the city staff finds that the proposed project meets the approval requirements in this Chapter 
and the Design Standards and Application Requirements, as well as the following additional 
required findings:
(1) involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an 
existing wireless tower or base station;
(2) does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing wireless 
tower or base station; and
(3) remains in compliance with all applicable FCC RF standards.
(4) Criteria for Denial without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provision in 
this Chapter, and consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the city staff 
may deny without prejudice any application for a Section 6409 request when the city 
staff finds that the proposed project:
(A) does not meet the findings required in Section 17.10.110(d);
(B) involves the replacement of the entire eligible support structure; or
(C) violates any legally enforceable law, regulation, rule, standard or 
permit condition reasonably related to public health or safety.
(e) Appeals. Any applicant may appeal the city staff's written decision to deny without 
prejudice an application for Section 6409 request to the Director of Public Works within five (5) 
calendar days of the notice of decision. The written appeal together with any applicable appeal 
fee must be tendered to the City Clerk within five calendar days from the city staff's  written 
decision and must state in plain terms the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those 
grounds. The Director of Public Works shall be the appellate authority for all appeals from the 
city staff's written decision to deny without prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. 
The Public Works Director shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the 
Public Works Director's decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be 
approved or denied in accordance with the provisions in this Section and any other applicable 
laws. The Director of Public Works  shall issue a written decision that contains the reasons for 
the decision, and such decision shall be final and not subject to any further administrative 
appeals.
311 of 585

--- page 312 ---
17.10.120 Review of Ordinance
Wireless communications technology is currently subject to rapid change. Innovations 
may render the need for specific sections of this Chapter to be reviewed and revised. The City 
Council may amend this Chapter by ordinance or its rules and policies by resolution after a 
change to the FCC's regulations or standards, or any applicable state or federal laws.
17.10.130 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SECTION 6409 APPROVALS.
(a) Applicability. This Section applies to all requests for approval to collocate, replace 
or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the 
public rights-of-way submitted pursuant to Section 6409. However, the applicant may voluntarily 
elect to seek a major or minor wireless permit under Section 17.10.030.
(b) Additional Section 6409 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Section 
17.10.020, the abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Section will have the 
following meanings assigned to them unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, 
terms or words in this section will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as 
may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary 
meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in this section 
conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated definition 
will control.
(1) "eligible facilities request" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 
C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as may be amended.
(2) "eligible support structure" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 
C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(4), as may be amended.
(3) "existing" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.40001(b)(4), as may be amended.
(4) "site" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(6), 
as may be amended.
(5) "substantial change" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.40001(b)(7), as may be amended.
(c) Required Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove transmission 
equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way 
submitted with a written request for approval under Section 6409 shall require an administrative 
approval in such form determined by the Director consistent with all valid and enforceable terms 
and conditions of the underlying permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the tower or 
base station (each amendment a "section 6409 approval"). Each section 6409 approval shall be 
subject to the Director's approval, conditional approval or denial without prejudice pursuant to 
the standards and procedures in this Section. However, the applicant may voluntarily elect to 
312 of 585

--- page 313 ---
seek a major or minor wireless permit subject to the general standards and procedures in this 
Chapter.
(d) Decisions; Appeals. 
(1) Administrative Review. The approval authority shall administratively review 
a complete and duly filed application for a section 6409 approval, and may act on such 
application without prior notice or a public hearing.
(2) Decision Notices. Within five days after the approval authority acts on an 
application for a section 6409 approval or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever 
occurs first), the approval authority shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the 
event that the approval authority denies the application, the written notice to the 
applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision; (2) a statement that denial will 
be without prejudice; and (3) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
(3) Required Findings for Approval. The approval authority may approve or 
conditionally approve any application for a section 6409 approval when the approval 
authority finds that the proposed project:
(A) involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission 
equipment on an existing wireless tower or base station;
(B) does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing 
wireless tower or base station; and
(C) remains in compliance with all applicable FCC RF standards.
(4) Criteria for Denial without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provision in 
this Chapter, and consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the 
approval authority may deny without prejudice any application for a section 6409 
approval when the approval authority finds that the proposed project:
(A) does not meet the findings required in Section 17.10.130(d)(3);
(B) involves the replacement of the entire support structure; or
(C) violates any legally enforceable law, regulation, rule, standard or 
permit condition reasonably related to public health or safety.
(5) Conditional Approvals. Subject to any applicable limitations in federal or 
state law, nothing in this Section is intended to limit the approval authority's authority to 
conditionally approve an application for a section 6409 approval to protect and promote 
the public health and safety.
313 of 585

--- page 314 ---
(6)(1) Appeals. Any applicant may appeal the approval authority's written 
decision to deny without prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. The written 
appeal together with any applicable appeal fee must be tendered to the City Clerk within 
ten calendar days from the approval authority's written decision and must state in plain 
terms the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The City 
Manager shall be the appellate authority for all appeals from the approval authority's 
written decision to deny without prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. The 
City Manager shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the City 
Manager's decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be approved 
or denied in accordance with the provisions in this Section and any other applicable 
laws. The City Manager shall issue a written decision that contains the reasons for the 
decision, and such decision shall be final and not subject to any further administrative 
appeals.
314 of 585

--- page 315 ---
315 of 585

--- page 316 ---
316 of 585

--- page 317 ---
317 of 585

--- page 318 ---
318 of 585

--- page 319 ---
319 of 585

--- page 320 ---
320 of 585

--- page 321 ---
321 of 585

--- page 322 ---
322 of 585

--- page 323 ---
323 of 585

--- page 324 ---
324 of 585

--- page 325 ---
325 of 585

--- page 326 ---
326 of 585

--- page 327 ---
327 of 585

--- page 328 ---
328 of 585

--- page 329 ---
329 of 585

--- page 330 ---
330 of 585

--- page 331 ---
331 of 585

--- page 332 ---
332 of 585

--- page 333 ---
333 of 585

--- page 334 ---
334 of 585

--- page 335 ---
335 of 585

--- page 336 ---
336 of 585

--- page 337 ---
337 of 585

--- page 338 ---
338 of 585

--- page 339 ---
339 of 585

--- page 340 ---
340 of 585

--- page 341 ---
341 of 585

--- page 342 ---
342 of 585

--- page 343 ---
343 of 585

--- page 344 ---
344 of 585

--- page 345 ---
345 of 585

--- page 346 ---
346 of 585

--- page 347 ---
347 of 585

--- page 348 ---
348 of 585

--- page 349 ---
349 of 585

--- page 350 ---
350 of 585

--- page 351 ---
351 of 585

--- page 352 ---
352 of 585

--- page 353 ---
353 of 585

--- page 354 ---
354 of 585

--- page 355 ---
355 of 585

--- page 356 ---
356 of 585

--- page 357 ---
357 of 585

--- page 358 ---
358 of 585

--- page 359 ---
359 of 585

--- page 360 ---
360 of 585

--- page 361 ---
361 of 585

--- page 362 ---
362 of 585

--- page 363 ---
363 of 585

--- page 364 ---
364 of 585

--- page 365 ---
365 of 585

--- page 366 ---
366 of 585

--- page 367 ---
367 of 585

--- page 368 ---
368 of 585

--- page 369 ---
369 of 585

--- page 370 ---
DATE NAME
10/29/2024 Albert Carlson

10/29/2024 Donko Donjerkovic

10/30/2024 Louise Bekins

COMMENT
Good Evening,

My wife Eva and | are residents of the Sunnybrae neighborhood. We would like to request that you now direct the (Director of Public
Works) Matt Fabry to add the following into the current 5G Condition of Approval:

That the residential site mandatory setback be no less than 300 feet. This condition is to apply to all homes, schools, and daycare
centers.

Thank you,

Albert Carlson

Dear City of San Mateo Officials,

Antennas installed in US residential areas would be ILLEGAL in many other countries because they would exceed local RF power limits:
Limits on RF radiation in different countries:

US: 10 W/m*2

Italy: 0.1 W/m42

China: 0.4 W/m42

India: 1.1 W/m42

https://www.rivm.nl/sites/default/files/2018-
11/Comparison%200f%20international%20policies%200n%20electromagnetic%20fields%202018. pdf

Notice that US limit is less restrictive than limits in some autocratic countries. Please stand for our right to live in our homes without
harmful radiation and enact 300ft setbacks.

Donko Donjerkovic
Proud San Mateo resident and homeowner since 2013

Dear Councilpersons

Please add (ASAP) the current code to the 300 ft. setback. Very important for all of us.
Many thanks for all your help on this critical issue that we have fought for, for so long and at our personal expense.

Louise Bekins

370 of 585


--- page 371 ---
DATE NAME
10/30/2024 Martin Elliott

10/30/2024 Connie Larios

COMMENT
Dear Council Members and Mr. Fabry,

Please implement the proposed 300 foot setback for small cell devices immediately and do not let the telcom industry members ‘sneak
in' new applications without this requirement.

This is especially important to require of Crown Castle as this firm has already violated conditions placed on prior permits and cannot
be in good standing.

Moreover, such actions (rushed applications before a new rule comes in) by the telcom industry are not being conducted in good faith
and if allowed by the city will simply invite more flawed applications for staff and residents to manage.

Thank you,
Martin Elliott

Good Morning,
As the Director of Public Works, you, Matt Fabry, have the authority under our CURRENT code to add into the current ordinance under
the Standard Conditions of Approval this proposed residential site 300 foot set-backs. It is imperative you not wait and must do this

now. The commission unanimously approved the 300 foot setbacks and waiting for Council approval in November and December. |
don't understand why something this important cannot have an emergency meeting to approve, but since that will not happen, you,
Matt Fabry, have the authority to add this ordinance. Please think about this and the cost to the public health and safety.

17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval

"(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application
Requirements.

"(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on appeal) shall have
discretion to modify or amend any standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of the approved wireless facility, maintain
compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo
Municipal Code and/or this Chapter. "

Thank you,
Connie Larios

371 of 585


--- page 372 ---
DATE NAME
10/30/2024 Linda San Felipe

10/30/2024 Tom Lease

COMMENT
Dear All,

My name is Linda San Felipe, and | am reaching out today to express my deep concern and total frustration regarding the recent
(10/29) approval of a wireless permit at 535 Clark Drive in San Mateo Park, close to my home. | have been passionately involved in
advocating for responsible wireless development as an integral part of the group San Mateans For a Safe Environment back in 2018.
Our team worked tirelessly to convince the city to adopt a small cell ordinance, as Public Works was, at the time, permitting telecom
companies to operate without sufficient oversight. Although our ordinance was not as strong as we had hoped, it provided a
foundation for building a more robust framework.

In the past year, | have also been actively working with the NoCellOuts Group to raise awareness about the dangers of unchecked small
cell proliferation and to raise funds to support legal efforts led by attorney Ariel Strauss. Our aim has been to secure a new, improved
wireless ordinance that prioritizes the welfare of residents over the interests of telecoms. Given these efforts, | am deeply distraught to
learn that the city approved a small cell installation at 535 Clark Drive, mere weeks before our new ordinance is set to take effect. |
intend to appeal this decision, but it feels like a setback and a slap in the face, after years of dedicated work.

The approved small cell installation is an unsightly rust-colored canister with an overhanging arm extending over the sidewalk, placed
less than 10 feet from a residence. This design does not align with the aesthetics outlined in our pending ordinance, nor does it adhere
to the 300-foot residential setback standard that is both safer and more considerate of our neighborhood. Additionally, the canister is
mounted only 18'7" above the sidewalk—significantly lower than what many would consider appropriate for such infrastructure.

lam imploring Matt Fabry, the Director of Public Works, to exercise his authority under the current code and incorporate the 300-foot
setback and aesthetic preferences (from least to most desirable) into the existing ordinance’s Standard Conditions of Approval. Tripp
May has deemed this lawful, and it is crucial that we act now rather than waiting until December. | did not put in six years of effort only
to see this rushed approval undermine our progress just weeks before the new ordinance takes effect.

Thank you for your time and consideration of this urgent matter.

Sincerely,
Linda San Felipe

lam writing to please continue to fight for the health, safety, and peace of mind that Cell Free San Mateo is asking you to do.

There seems to be a lot of pressure from billion dollar companies to do whatever they want in our cities and towns and often our only
line of defense is the city council.

| hope DPW will update current standards of approval and restrict residential sites from dangerous cell towers.

These are billion dollar companies and they can surely find a way to provide cell services without lining our residential neighborhoods
with cell towers without providing assurance of their safety or necessity.

Thank you.

Tom Lease

372 of 585


--- page 373 ---
373 of 585

--- page 374 ---
DATE NAME
11/1/2024 Theresa Aiello

COMMENT
Dear Director of Public Works Fabry:

| live at [ REDACTED - PII] , CA 94401

We are yet again under attack by Crown Castle and their repeated cell tower applications. On October 23, Crown Castle submitted a
third application for a cell tower installation [ REDACTED - PII ] at the lot line between 124 and 134 Warren Road (WC-2024-000243.)
Each application largely the same as the previous, including the hostility, disregard for design standard, and steamrolling approach to
meet their own business objectives.

We are writing to urge the Director of Public Works to immediately revise the current code to require 300 foot set backs for cell towers.
It is not necessary to wait until the new cell tower ordinance is approved. It is more critical that this be done NOW, as Crown Castle has
launched a campaign to reapply for a large number of new cell towers across the city.

Director Fabry has the authority under our current code to require 300 foot set backs for cell tower applications in residential areas.
He should do this NOW! Independent legal council, Tripp May, has deemed this authority to be lawful and reasonable. We simply
cannot wait for December. We are under attack now!

17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval

(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application
Requirements.

(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on appeal) shall have
discretion to modify or amend any standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of the approved wireless facility, maintain
compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo
Municipal Code and/or this Chapter.

Please exercise your legal authority to modify the current code and not wait until the final approval of the new ordinance in December.
We need to stop Crown Castle's "Hail Mary" campaign against the residents and the City of San Mateo to get their applications through
before the new ordinance is approved. Now is not the time to let up. This most recent assault cannot be ignored and we need your
help!

Please confirm receipt of this email. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.

Theresa Aiello

374 of 585


--- page 375 ---
DATE NAME
11/1/2024 Alicia Woodfall-Jones

COMMENT
Dear Mayor Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom, Councilmember Hedges, Director of Public Works Fabry:

We are yet again under attack by Crown Castle and their repeated cell tower applications. On October 23, Crown Castle submitted a
third application for a cell tower installation [ REDACTED - PII ] at the lot line between 124 and 134 Warren Road (WC-2024-000243.)
Each application largely the same as the previous, including the hostility, disregard for design standard, and steamrolling approach to
meet their own business objectives.

We are writing to urge the Director of Public Works to immediately revise the current code to require 300 foot set backs for cell towers.
It is not necessary to wait until the new cell tower ordinance is approved. It is more critical that this be done NOW, as Crown Castle has
launched a campaign to reapply for a large number of new cell towers across the city.

Director Fabry has the authority under our current code to require 300 foot set backs for cell tower applications in residential areas.
He should do this NOW! Independent legal council, Tripp May, has deemed this authority to be lawful and reasonable. We simply
cannot wait for December. We are under attack now!

17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval

(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application
Requirements.

(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on appeal) shall have
discretion to modify or amend any standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of the approved wireless facility, maintain
compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo
Municipal Code and/or this Chapter.

Please exercise your legal authority to modify the current code and not wait until the final approval of the new ordinance in December.
We need to stop Crown Castle's "Hail Mary" campaign against the residents and the City of San Mateo to get their applications through
before the new ordinance is approved. Now is not the time to let up. This most recent assault cannot be ignored and we need your
help!

Please confirm receipt of this email. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.

Steve Jones

375 of 585


--- page 376 ---
376 of 585

--- page 377 ---
DATE NAME
11/12/2024 Irena Mavridis and
No Cell Outs

11/12/2024 Bob Kiss
11/13/2024 Nora Yan

COMMENT
Good evening Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor Rob Newsom, Council members Hedges, Lee and Loraine,

In the attachment below, please see comments and redline from No Cell Outs attorney Ariel Strauss on the proposed policy and
ordinance governing small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way.

“We appreciate staff using the Encinitas policy as a starting point, and the many improvements reflected in the draft, especially the
new preferred location standards in Section 10.

Additional modifications are still necessary to ensure appropriate City authority over the public right-of-way and public participation.
Note: For convenience and clarity, | have made changes directly to the draft Policy. Because track-changes sometimes shows
inconsistently on different computers, the edits are provided both in PDF and Word format, though the substance of both are
identical.” - Ariel Strauss

Sincerely,

Irena Mavridis and No Cell Outs
See Attachment 5.2

See Attachment 5.3

Hi,

| live at [ REDACTED - PII ], San Mateo, CA. There are two active cell towers near my house but the permit is still issued. When are these
two towers going to be dismantled/disconnected? | am EMF sensitive and have been having some health issues in the past year with
headaches, nausea, insomnia, generalized numbness/pain, brain fog, feeling like my entire body is under constant radiation possibly
coinciding with these cell towers going up. Please disconnect these cell towers ASAP! There are numerous studies showing these cell
towers are very unhealthy for people especially children and the environment. It's disappointing that some of our city leaders could
promote these towers in the first place.

Sincerely,
--Nora Yan,

377 of 585


--- page 378 ---
378 of 585

--- page 379 ---
November 4, 2024
Dear Mayor Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom, Councilmember Hedges and Director Fabry:

My family and | are nearly 20-year residents of San Mateo Park, and | am writing today to ask you to
please immediately exercise your authority under the existing City of San Mateo Wireless
Ordinance to add into/modify the Standard Conditions of Approval. Specifically, | am requesting
that Director Fabry, as permitted under the current code, add 2 additional items to the Standard
Conditions of Approval which he is permitted to do under existing Code 17.10.080. These
additional 2 items that Director Fabry should implement immediately are taken directly from the
City’s revised wireless Policy which as you know was recently approved 5-0 by the Sustainability &
Infrastructure Commission and will be coming shortly to the City Council for review and approval.

The 2 requested items that Director Fabry should include/implement immediately for all pending
applications until the new Policy takes effect are: 1) 300-foot setback from residential dwelling
units, daycare facility or school structure (item 10(b) from the revised Policy) and 2) item 10(h) from
the revised Policy which includes a 15-foot setback from driveways—a safety issue highlighted by
outside counsel Tripp May.

As you are likely aware, Crown Castle/Verizon are trying to expedite applications into the San Mateo
area and specifically San Mateo Park to try to circumvent the forthcoming application requirements
under the City’s revised Policy. City Council and the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission are
to be commended for listening to residents (and outside counsel) and revisiting our Policy to study
how we can best integrate these facilities into our community with as little safety, aesthetic and
health impacts as possible while still complying with the Federal and State regulations that govern
the implementation of these small cell facilities. Importantly, the new revised Policy that the S&l
Commission approved 5-0 and which the City Council is scheduled to review, discuss and
tentatively approve at its December 9" meeting goes a long way to balancing these important
factors. By accelerating their application process(es) and trying to get applications in “under the
wire” before the new application requirements under the new Policy take effect, Crown
Castle/Verizon are clearly ignoring the desires of city residents and the hard work that the Council
and S&l members have done in attempting to find the right balance. As you know, all the proposed
new Policy application requirements, some of which Crown Castle/Verizon strongly disagree with,
comply with all Federal and State regulations as confirmed by outside counsel.

By taking this immediate action to implement these proposed items into the current Code and
applying them to all current pending applications, the Director and the City would simply be
implementing the hard work already completed, reviewed and approved by the S&l Commission
and implementing changes that reflect the desire of its residents. This would prevent Crown
Castle/Verizon from ignoring what City Council, the S&l Commission, and the City’s residents have
clearly stated is in the best interests of the City of San Mateo. Please implement these changes
immediately and stop Verizon from ignoring what makes San Mateo a special place to live.

Sincerely,

Jeff Adams ;

379 of 585


--- page 380 ---
380 of 585

--- page 381 ---
Ariel Strauss, Of-Counsel

G REENFIRE 2748 Adeline Street, Suite A

LAw. PC Berkeley, CA 94703
° Phone: (510) 900-9502 x 702

Email: astrauss@greenfirelaw.com
www.ereenfirelaw.com

October 21, 2024

By Electronic Mail
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Chair Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair Kimiko Narita,

Commissioner Edward Kranz, Commission Sigalle Michael and Commissioner Cliff Robbins
(SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org)

RE: No Cell Outs’ Comments on Small Cell Facilities in the Public Right of Way
Ordinance & Policy Update

Dear Chair Rowinski, Vice Chair Narita and Commissioners Kranz, Michael and Robbins:

I am writing on behalf of No Cell Outs, a grassroots organization composed of citizens
dedicated to the smart planning of telecommunications infrastructure in the City of San Mateo. I
previously provided comments for the Commission’s December 2023 information session and also
on the City Council’s May 2024 study session. No Cell Outs greatly appreciates that staff took
into consideration many of the previous comments and made significant strides to improve existing
policies.

As with any new proposal, however, some corrections and adjustments are still required.
The four principal recommendations are detailed below. Attached to this letter is a list of further
edits and, for convenience, a redline of the Policy directly implanting the recommended changes.

A. Consultant Review Must be Automatic, Particularly for Sites Proposed in

“Restricted” Locations

Section 6(k) of the draft Policy authorizes the Director to hire a consultant to assist in
processing applications. However, the Director has to exercise discretion on each case and does
not clarify situations where consultant review is automatic. Many cities, such Hercules, have
simply outsourced review to a consulting expert. This is the best approach because staff lack the
technical expertise to review wireless applications and it frees up staff to do other work. It also
simplifies ensuring that applicants bear the full cost of permit review—the amount charged by

the consultant to the City is passed on to the applicant, which is simpler than estimating the cost

381 of 585


--- page 382 ---
382 of 585

--- page 383 ---
383 of 585

--- page 384 ---
October 21, 2024
Page 4 of 10

Here are examples of the photo simulations of the two most common approved small cell

designs for streetlights and wooden utility poles in San Mateo:

While these installations may appear “small”, they are clearly not hidden or appearing as
“something other than” a wireless facility. As a result, they are not “stealth” and, if a future
applicant insisted, there is virtually nothing that the City could do to stop the pole from looking

similar to this example from Los Altos:

2 29 Grant St. (WC-2023-000138).
3341 N. Delaware St. (WC-2022-000054).

384 of 585


--- page 385 ---
October 21, 2024
Page 5 of 10

:
&

It is unlikely that applicant would be able to attach additional antennas to a pole like the Fort
Worth example without new City review and approval. As a result, the City should add several

requirements to prevent hideous and uncontrolled future proliferation.

4 https://www.losaltosca.gov/publicworks/page/small-cell-nodes
> Fort Worth Tex. Muni. Code, Chap. 30, App’x A, Ex. 9,
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/ftworth/latest/ftworth_tx/0-0-0-58357.

385 of 585


--- page 386 ---
386 of 585

--- page 387 ---
387 of 585

--- page 388 ---
October 21, 2024
Page 8 of 10

No Cell Outs greatly appreciates staff's work to improve the City’s policies and the
Commission’s close attention to this issue. We look forward to providing comments and seeing
further progress at the Commission hearing.

Sincerely,
Ariel Strauss
Attachments:

List of Additional Proposed Changes
Redline Recommended Changes to Draft Policy

CC: Matt Fabry, Director, Public Works (electronic mail only)
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney (electronic mail only)
Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney (electronic mail only)
Tripp May, Esq. (electronic mail only)

388 of 585


--- page 389 ---
389 of 585

--- page 390 ---
390 of 585

--- page 391 ---
391 of 585

--- page 392 ---
392 of 585

--- page 393 ---
393 of 585

--- page 394 ---
394 of 585

--- page 395 ---
395 of 585

--- page 396 ---
396 of 585

--- page 397 ---
397 of 585

--- page 398 ---
398 of 585

--- page 399 ---
399 of 585

--- page 400 ---
400 of 585

--- page 401 ---
401 of 585

--- page 402 ---
402 of 585

--- page 403 ---
403 of 585

--- page 404 ---
404 of 585

--- page 405 ---
405 of 585

--- page 406 ---
406 of 585

--- page 407 ---
407 of 585

--- page 408 ---
408 of 585

--- page 409 ---
409 of 585

--- page 410 ---
410 of 585

--- page 411 ---
411 of 585

--- page 412 ---
412 of 585

--- page 413 ---
413 of 585

--- page 414 ---
414 of 585

--- page 415 ---
415 of 585

--- page 416 ---
416 of 585

--- page 417 ---
417 of 585

--- page 418 ---
418 of 585

--- page 419 ---
419 of 585

--- page 420 ---
420 of 585

--- page 421 ---
421 of 585

--- page 422 ---
422 of 585

--- page 423 ---
423 of 585

--- page 424 ---
424 of 585

--- page 425 ---
425 of 585

--- page 426 ---
426 of 585

--- page 427 ---
427 of 585

--- page 428 ---
428 of 585

--- page 429 ---
429 of 585

--- page 430 ---
430 of 585

--- page 431 ---
431 of 585

--- page 432 ---
432 of 585

--- page 433 ---
433 of 585

--- page 434 ---
434 of 585

--- page 435 ---
435 of 585

--- page 436 ---
436 of 585

--- page 437 ---
437 of 585

--- page 438 ---
438 of 585

--- page 439 ---
439 of 585

--- page 440 ---
440 of 585

--- page 441 ---
441 of 585

--- page 442 ---
442 of 585

--- page 443 ---
443 of 585

--- page 444 ---
444 of 585

--- page 445 ---
445 of 585

--- page 446 ---
446 of 585

--- page 447 ---
447 of 585

--- page 448 ---
448 of 585

--- page 449 ---
449 of 585

--- page 450 ---
CTIO’

@@ee000680
November 15, 2024

San Mateo City Council
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: Comments on Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right of Way - Update to
SMMC Chapter 17.10 and City Policy

Dear Mayor Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom and Council Members Loraine, Hedges and Lee:

CTIA®, the trade association for the wireless communications industry, is writing to respectfully express
our concerns regarding suggested modifications to policies governing wireless communications
facilities, which would hinder our ability to continue improving connectivity in San Mateo.

From supporting local businesses, schools, and families to ensuring public safety and resiliency of our
infrastructure, strong wireless connectivity is essential to the San Mateo community, especially at a
time when demand for wireless services has grown at historic rates. In 2023, Americans used more than
100 trillion megabytes of data, the largest single-year increase ever and double that of two years
previous.’ To meet this demand, the wireless industry invested $30 billion in private funds last year
alone to improve the nation’s networks. This also supports economic growth in California, where the
wireless industry supports 580,000 jobs and generates $73 billion annually in GDP.”

Unfortunately, CTIA is concerned that the proposed policies will impose a range of unjustified and
burdensome requirements that will effectively halt further deployment as well as violate federal law.
We look forward to working with you to address these concerns and find ways to modify these
provisions to advance high-quality wireless service in the City of San Mateo.

Requirements Inhibiting Deployment

While CTIA appreciates that the proposed City Policy expresses a desire to conform with federal law, in
that no state or local regulation can have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless
services or otherwise inhibiting deployment, the following provisions would do just that:

e (b)(3). Project Narrative
e (b)(10). Acoustic Analysis
e (b)(17). Coverage and capacity information

b
b

Ata minimum, these and other requirements raise both legal and practical concerns that will ultimately
hinder our members’ ability to expand connectivity in San Mateo. In a 2018 order that was upheld by a
United States appeals court, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) held that state or local
siting regulations that have the effect of inhibiting deployment violate Sections 253 and 332 of the
federal Communications Act. Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to

1 https://www.ctia.org/news/2024-annual-survey-highlights
? https://www.ctia.org/the-wireless-industry/map/4g

1400 16th Street, NW - Suite 600 - Washington, DC 20036 - www.ctia.org

450 of 585


--- page 451 ---
Infrastructure Investment, 33 FCC Rcd 9088, 9102, aff'd in part sub nom. City of Portland v. U.S., 969 F.3d
1020 (9th Cir. 2020) (“State/Local Siting Order”). Conditioning approval on the applicant’s
demonstration of these and other elements to obtain permit approval will most certainly have a
disadvantageous effect on deployment. The FCC’s rules already impose service coverage and other
related obligations on wireless providers, and the time and cost of conducting these and other analyses
will be prohibitive. Requiring the applicant to provide this type and level of current and future
evidentiary proof both violates federal law but also significantly discourages future investment.

Excessive and Unnecessary Requirements
There are also a range of provisions in the proposed City Policy that far exceed what is customary for
effective local regulation of wireless infrastructure and are likely to halt further deployment.

Location Standards

Section 10 includes a range of location standards that, taken together, severely inhibit the ability to and
utility of deploying small cell facilities in San Mateo. Small cell technology relies on small antennas -
often no more than three cubic feet in size - that are placed close to the ground, typically on utility or
light poles. While this technology helps address aesthetic concerns associated with large antenna
towers or other structures, wireless signals using small cells cannot propagate as far. As a result, various
location restrictions in Section 10 - 300-foot setbacks, front door and window and residential driveway
proximities - would in practice prohibit the effective deployment of a technology that is specifically
designed to both improve coverage as well as minimize visual impacts in a community.

Additionally, Section 6 and 13 related to Exceptions create even further challenges. First, these
provisions would effectively always require an exception for the deployment of small cells in most City
rights-of-way. Second, an exception request would be treated as a new application, deeming an
existing application to be withdrawn. In practice, this policy approach is incompatible with and in
violation of the FCC’s regulations governing shot clocks for small cell facilities and creates a policy
environment geared towards denying a permit and prohibiting service.

Design Standards

Given the technical nature of wireless technology, Section 11 of the City Policy presents some of the
most challenging barriers to compliance for our members. By way of background, small cells constitute
the physical backbone of our wireless networks, and by the end of 2023, there were approximately
432,000 operational cell sites across the nation. Put simply, our members have considerable knowledge
and expertise about how to effectively and appropriately deploy them in communities to improve
connectivity to meet demand. Unfortunately, Section 11 introduces a range of provisions that are far
more granular and prescriptive than is necessary and would in fact deter our members from further
small cell deployment. Whether it be antenna volume or shrouding, height, accessory equipment,
orientation or other elements, many of the provisions in Section 11 are not reflective of standard
industry practices and requirements for effective deployment of small cell technology. When deploying
this and other kinds of wireless infrastructure, our members seek to work with local governments to
ensure minimal community impact, and the City of San Mateo already retains the ability to implement
a host of aesthetic requirements on our providers without this level of prescriptiveness. Taken together,
many of these provisions are highly restrictive and unnecessary.

451 of 585


--- page 452 ---
Peer Review Consultancy Cost

The proposed Policy enables the City to require providers to fund retainment of an outside consultant
for the otherwise straightforward review of a wireless application. This provision is both unreasonable
and likely unlawful. Federal law is clear that while localities are permitted to assess fees for
management of their rights-of-way for wireless deployment, those fees must be cost-based.
Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, 36 FCC
Rcd 9088 at | 72-76 (2018), aff'd in part sub nom. City of Portland v. United States, 969 F.3d 1020 (9 Cir.
2020). Absent any information otherwise, requiring providers to cover the cost of a consultant in the
manner prescribed in the Policy suggests this fee is not cost-based.

Radio Frequency (RF) Compliance Requirements

Federal law is expressly clear related to issues surrounding radiofrequency (RF) emissions from wireless
infrastructure. Section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) states that a state or locality may not regulate the location of
wireless facilities “on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.” As such,
local governments cannot base their permit approval decisions for a wireless site on radiofrequency
concerns. The FCC has exclusive authority over RF emissions and has adopted rules that all wireless
providers must meet. However, the City Policy contains a range of provisions directly or impliedly
related to initial and ongoing RF monitoring and reporting obligations that go far beyond what the
FCC’s rules require. These provisions are disallowed by federal law and will hinder further deployment.

We appreciate the City’s consideration of our feedback. The wireless industry strongly recommends
greater flexibility in installation of small cell wireless facilities, which again are specifically designed to
both improve coverage as well as minimize visual impacts in a community. We encourage the City to
work with our members to explore potential solutions. Thank you again for the opportunity to share
our feedback.

Sincerel

Jeremy Crandall
Assistant Vice President
State Legislative Affairs

452 of 585


--- page 453 ---
From: Jeremy Crandall

To: City Council (San Mateo)
Cc: Clerk; Annissa Reed
Subject: Agenda Item 19 - Wireless Facilities - CTIA Comment Letter
Date: Friday, November 15, 2024 9:22:20 AM
Attachments: image001.aif

11-15-2024 CTIA San Mateo Comment Letter. pdf
Importance: High

Mayor Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom and Council Members Loraine, Hedges and Lee -

lam submitting the following comment letter on behalf of CTIA, the trade association for the
wireless industry, related to Agenda Item 19 due for consideration during the November 18
Council meeting.

Many thanks for your consideration, and please do not hesitate to reach out with any
questions.

Sincerely,
Jeremy Crandall

Jeremy Crandall
AVP, State Legislative Affairs

453 of 585


--- page 454 ---
From: LOUISE BEKINS

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cec: LOUISE BEKINS

Subject: Payment of No-Cell-Out Atty fees

Date: Monday, November 18, 2024 5:53:07 AM

Dear Councilpersons

| believe you are considering pay raises for certain city employees like City Manager
and City Attorney.

Please reimburse/pay all the attorney fees first for our No-Cell-Out Attorney who has
done a fantastic job for San Mateo citizens. Up until now we individual citizens have
had to foot the bill, unfairly.

Also, many, many thanks for approving the new cell tower rulings for us.

Louise Bekins

454 of 585


--- page 455 ---
455 of 585

--- page 456 ---
456 of 585

--- page 457 ---
457 of 585

--- page 458 ---
458 of 585

--- page 459 ---
459 of 585

--- page 460 ---
460 of 585

--- page 461 ---
Daren Chan AT&T Services, Inc. T 510-334-5839

—_> :
oe) Director 430 Bush Street Daren.L.Chan@att.com
= CA Legislative & Regulatory Affairs Suite 500
SZ San Francisco, CA 94108

policy may end up reducing the investment and service improvements that small cells otherwise
would bring to the City of San Mateo.

This draft policy is not the only way to address the issue of small cells. AT&T recognizes the
the City has concerns regarding the design and placement of small cell facilities, and we have been
able to address similar concerns with many other cities in a manner consistent with federal and state
law. We urge the Council to send this proposed policy back to staff with instructions to work with
the industry to avoid unnecessary conflicts with federal and state law while addressing the concerns
regarding the design and placement of small cell facilities.

Sincerely,

S— C4

Daten Chan
External Affairs, AT&T California

461 of 585


--- page 462 ---
462 of 585

--- page 463 ---
CTIO’

eee0e000
November 15, 2024

San Mateo City Council
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: Comments on Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right of Way - Update to
SMMC Chapter 17.10 and City Policy

Dear Mayor Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom and Council Members Loraine, Hedges and Lee:

CTIA®, the trade association for the wireless communications industry, is writing to respectfully express
our concerns regarding suggested modifications to policies governing wireless communications
facilities, which would hinder our ability to continue improving connectivity in San Mateo.

From supporting local businesses, schools, and families to ensuring public safety and resiliency of our
infrastructure, strong wireless connectivity is essential to the San Mateo community, especially at a
time when demand for wireless services has grown at historic rates. In 2023, Americans used more than
100 trillion megabytes of data, the largest single-year increase ever and double that of two years
previous.’ To meet this demand, the wireless industry invested $30 billion in private funds last year
alone to improve the nation’s networks. This also supports economic growth in California, where the
wireless industry supports 580,000 jobs and generates $73 billion annually in GDP.”

Unfortunately, CTIA is concerned that the proposed policies will impose a range of unjustified and
burdensome requirements that will effectively halt further deployment as well as violate federal law.
We look forward to working with you to address these concerns and find ways to modify these
provisions to advance high-quality wireless service in the City of San Mateo.

Requirements Inhibiting Deployment

While CTIA appreciates that the proposed City Policy expresses a desire to conform with federal law, in
that no state or local regulation can have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless
services or otherwise inhibiting deployment, the following provisions would do just that:

e (b)(3). Project Narrative
e (b)(10). Acoustic Analysis
e (b)(17). Coverage and capacity information

b
b

Ata minimum, these and other requirements raise both legal and practical concerns that will ultimately
hinder our members’ ability to expand connectivity in San Mateo. In a 2018 order that was upheld by a
United States appeals court, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) held that state or local
siting regulations that have the effect of inhibiting deployment violate Sections 253 and 332 of the
federal Communications Act. Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to

1 https://www.ctia.org/news/2024-annual-survey-highlights
? https://www.ctia.org/the-wireless-industry/map/4g

1400 16th Street, NW - Suite 600 - Washington, DC 20036 - www.ctia.org

463 of 585


--- page 464 ---
Infrastructure Investment, 33 FCC Rcd 9088, 9102, aff'd in part sub nom. City of Portland v. U.S., 969 F.3d
1020 (9th Cir. 2020) (“State/Local Siting Order”). Conditioning approval on the applicant’s
demonstration of these and other elements to obtain permit approval will most certainly have a
disadvantageous effect on deployment. The FCC’s rules already impose service coverage and other
related obligations on wireless providers, and the time and cost of conducting these and other analyses
will be prohibitive. Requiring the applicant to provide this type and level of current and future
evidentiary proof both violates federal law but also significantly discourages future investment.

Excessive and Unnecessary Requirements
There are also a range of provisions in the proposed City Policy that far exceed what is customary for
effective local regulation of wireless infrastructure and are likely to halt further deployment.

Location Standards

Section 10 includes a range of location standards that, taken together, severely inhibit the ability to and
utility of deploying small cell facilities in San Mateo. Small cell technology relies on small antennas -
often no more than three cubic feet in size - that are placed close to the ground, typically on utility or
light poles. While this technology helps address aesthetic concerns associated with large antenna
towers or other structures, wireless signals using small cells cannot propagate as far. As a result, various
location restrictions in Section 10 - 300-foot setbacks, front door and window and residential driveway
proximities - would in practice prohibit the effective deployment of a technology that is specifically
designed to both improve coverage as well as minimize visual impacts in a community.

Additionally, Section 6 and 13 related to Exceptions create even further challenges. First, these
provisions would effectively always require an exception for the deployment of small cells in most City
rights-of-way. Second, an exception request would be treated as a new application, deeming an
existing application to be withdrawn. In practice, this policy approach is incompatible with and in
violation of the FCC’s regulations governing shot clocks for small cell facilities and creates a policy
environment geared towards denying a permit and prohibiting service.

Design Standards

Given the technical nature of wireless technology, Section 11 of the City Policy presents some of the
most challenging barriers to compliance for our members. By way of background, small cells constitute
the physical backbone of our wireless networks, and by the end of 2023, there were approximately
432,000 operational cell sites across the nation. Put simply, our members have considerable knowledge
and expertise about how to effectively and appropriately deploy them in communities to improve
connectivity to meet demand. Unfortunately, Section 11 introduces a range of provisions that are far
more granular and prescriptive than is necessary and would in fact deter our members from further
small cell deployment. Whether it be antenna volume or shrouding, height, accessory equipment,
orientation or other elements, many of the provisions in Section 11 are not reflective of standard
industry practices and requirements for effective deployment of small cell technology. When deploying
this and other kinds of wireless infrastructure, our members seek to work with local governments to
ensure minimal community impact, and the City of San Mateo already retains the ability to implement
a host of aesthetic requirements on our providers without this level of prescriptiveness. Taken together,
many of these provisions are highly restrictive and unnecessary.

464 of 585


--- page 465 ---
Peer Review Consultancy Cost

The proposed Policy enables the City to require providers to fund retainment of an outside consultant
for the otherwise straightforward review of a wireless application. This provision is both unreasonable
and likely unlawful. Federal law is clear that while localities are permitted to assess fees for
management of their rights-of-way for wireless deployment, those fees must be cost-based.
Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment, 36 FCC
Rcd 9088 at | 72-76 (2018), aff'd in part sub nom. City of Portland v. United States, 969 F.3d 1020 (9" Cir.
2020). Absent any information otherwise, requiring providers to cover the cost of a consultant in the
manner prescribed in the Policy suggests this fee is not cost-based.

Radio Frequency (RF) Compliance Requirements

Federal law is expressly clear related to issues surrounding radiofrequency (RF) emissions from wireless
infrastructure. Section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) states that a state or locality may not regulate the location of
wireless facilities “on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.” As such,
local governments cannot base their permit approval decisions for a wireless site on radiofrequency
concerns. The FCC has exclusive authority over RF emissions and has adopted rules that all wireless
providers must meet. However, the City Policy contains a range of provisions directly or impliedly
related to initial and ongoing RF monitoring and reporting obligations that go far beyond what the
FCC’s rules require. These provisions are disallowed by federal law and will hinder further deployment.

We appreciate the City’s consideration of our feedback. The wireless industry strongly recommends
greater flexibility in installation of small cell wireless facilities, which again are specifically designed to
both improve coverage as well as minimize visual impacts in a community. We encourage the City to
work with our members to explore potential solutions. Thank you again for the opportunity to share
our feedback.

Sincerely,

Crandall

Jeremy Crandall
Assistant Vice President
State Legislative Affairs

465 of 585


--- page 466 ---
466 of 585

--- page 467 ---
MACKENZIE & ALBRITTON LLP
155 SANSOME STREET, SUITE 620
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94104

TELEPHONE 415/288-4000
FACSIMILE 415 / 288-4010

November 15, 2024
VIA EMAIL

Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash

Deputy Mayor Rob Newsom, Jr.

Council Members Adam Loraine,
Rich Hedges, and Amourence Lee

San Mateo City Council

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

Re: Draft Policy for Small Wireless Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way
Council Agenda Item 19, November 18, 2024

Dear Chair Nash, Deputy Mayor Newsom, and Council Members:

We write on behalf of Verizon Wireless to provide comment on the draft policy
regulating small cell wireless facilities (the “Draft Policy”). Verizon Wireless is concerned
about a proposed location restriction that would prohibit small cells in most San Mateo
rights-of-way, unless the City approves an exception with a finding, in each case, that denial
would constitute a violation of state and federal law.

The attached report and maps show that restricting small cells in all
residential/mixed-use zones, within 300 feet of daycares and schools, and in certain fire
hazard zones would prohibit right-of-way facilities in 85 percent of the City’s zoned area.
Requiring an exception to site in the restricted areas would inappropriately place the Public
Works Director or an appeal hearing officer in the position of a judge deciding whether
federal law compels approval, notwithstanding City restrictions. As we explain below, this
prohibition/exception scheme would itself contradict Federal Communications Commission
(“FCC”) regulations and state law.

Instead of imposing broad location restrictions, the City should continue to rely on
its current, reasonable location preferences for small cells, which were developed in
collaboration with the wireless industry.

Other Draft Policy restrictions, such as height and equipment protrusion limits,
should expanded to accommodate strict state safety rules. With reasonable standards that
accommodate typical small cell designs, a single facility can serve a larger area and provide
more data capacity, and fewer facilities would be needed overall. Verizon Wireless must
continue to deploy small cells in San Mateo to meet rapidly-increasing user demand,

467 of 585


--- page 468 ---
468 of 585

--- page 469 ---
469 of 585

--- page 470 ---
470 of 585

--- page 471 ---
471 of 585

--- page 472 ---
472 of 585

--- page 473 ---
473 of 585

--- page 474 ---
474 of 585

--- page 475 ---
San Mateo City Council
November 15, 2024
Page 9 of 9

(m)(1). Overhead lines. The City cannot regulate the electric and communication lines
of other utilities through a small cell permit for a wireless carrier. The FCC regulates
overlashing, so the City cannot compel other utilities to allow it. See, e.g., 47 C.F.R. §
1416. The second sentence regarding overlashing must be deleted.

Section 12 — Preapproved Designs

(d). Modified review process. Small cells with preapproved designs would eligible for
expedited review only if in “preferred locations,” defined in Section 10(c) as locations at
least 300 feet from residences and not in residential/mixed use zones. Those limitations
would exclude almost the entire City, as discussed above, so there would be little benefit to
preapproved designs. The City should consider deleting the reference to preferred locations.

Section 13 — Exceptions

As discussed above, a special exception would always be required to install small cells in
most City rights-of-way, including all rights-of-way within residential and mixed-use
zones, and within 300 feet of residences, daycares, and schools per Draft Policy Section
10(a). The special exception findings violate federal law, as noted. Instead of requiring
special exceptions to correct prohibitive Draft Policy restrictions, the City should ensure
that that Draft Policy is reasonable and legally defensible prior to adoption.

(c). Request for exception at time submittal. As explained in our comments on
Section 6(b)(17), this contradicts federal law, notably the FCC’s Shot Clock rules.

Conclusion

Verizon Wireless appreciates the opportunity to provide comment on the Draft
Policy. The proposed restriction of small cells in almost all City rights-of-way is a step
backward, and the City should instead continue to rely on its reasonable location
preferences, which were developed in consultation with industry. We encourage the City
Council to incorporate our suggested revisions prior to adopting the Draft Policy.

Very truly yours,

Gite Chil 7
Paul B. Albritton
Attachment

cc: Prasanna Rasiah, Esq.
Jason Hallare
Matt Fabry

475 of 585


--- page 476 ---
476 of 585

--- page 477 ---
e To depict “any location within a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone” geospatial data from the Cal FIRE
website was added to the map and filtered for this particular subzone; the result is shown in orange.

e To depict rights-of-way, all parcels within the city limits were dissolved into a single shape, which was
then clipped by the city limits shape — the resulting “voids” are the rights-of-way, shown in purple.

Mapping Notes:
The zoning GIS data provided by the city appears to be incomplete in some areas.
e The areas shown below on the official zoning map have no corresponding information in the GIS file

(i.e. they are blank). These areas appear to be mainly “Shoreline” areas, totaling approximately 0.017
square miles (~ 10 acres). Their absence in the GIS file will affect the calculations below to a degree.

i

e Parts of the waterway that extend south from San Francisco Bay into the eastern interior of San Mateo
are depicted in the GIS zoning file as areas that are zoned; these are shown in light grey on the map (as
“unzoned”)

e The official city limits of San Mateo extend far into San Francisco Bay. Since this analysis only considers

land area, the shoreline was manually digitized and two separate areas of city limits were measured:
“land” and “water”.

477 of 585


--- page 478 ---
478 of 585

--- page 479 ---
C2
WA ae
SOIR
EN oe See XE
COE RRA
. VIER GS
= “

Gis
Ne

p

ip
Ly
NS

x
S

mS

SOD
DSSS
BSS

XS

yy

SIS

es 2
iz

\
\
ON

FS Sth Mates City RightsOfWay
San Mateo City Limits
CJ Land
 _j Water
Zoning
Restricted: (Mixed Use; Residential)
__ Unzoned

479 of 585


--- page 480 ---
~ TERE San Mateo City Rightsonvay
(J 300-foot distances from school and daycare structures

=) Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones (within City Limits)

San Mateo City Limits

C3 Land

r a Water

Zoning

| Restricted: (Mixed Use; Residential)

| Permitted i]

41 Unzoned _ at Ee ILD

480 of 585


--- page 481 ---
I
|
!

wn are hy
" AllRestrictions_Zoning_Schools_Fire

481 of 585


--- page 482 ---
482 of 585

--- page 483 ---
483 of 585

--- page 484 ---
484 of 585

--- page 485 ---
485 of 585

--- page 486 ---
Proposed San Mateo
Small Cell Policy

QO SEAL.
S SKROAS QAR
SSRN SK

vs OR NOAA :
CIRM
VFS SSEN SK,

== Permitted

—— Restricted
AllRestrictions_Zoning_Schools_Fire
SanMateoStreets_Clipped (freeways/ramps)

486 of 585


--- page 487 ---
487 of 585

--- page 488 ---
ECONOMY

a

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

ARIANE HOGAN
Chair of the Board
Genentech

WILLIAM GRAHAM
Vice Chair
Sequoia Hospital, A Dignity Health Member

FRANK R. PETRILLI

Vice Chair

Coblentz Patch Duffy & Bass
ROBERT WEBSTER

Vice Chair

Bohannon Development Company
PAUL CASIAS

Vice Chair of Finance
My-Business-Advisor LLP

ELAINE BREEZE

Secretary

SummerHill Apartment Communities

STEVE MINCEY
Past Chair of the Board
DES

ROSANNE FOUST
President & CEO
SAMCEDA

DIRECTORS
SHASTA ADDESSI

Kaiser Permanente

FRANK BARTALDO
Heritage Bank of Commerce
KEN BUSCH

Sares Regis Group of Northern California
Carol Donnelly

Embarcadero Capital Partners
GREG HURD

BKF Engineers

JENNIFER JOHNSON
Lathrop GPM

RICK KNAUF

Colliers

MICHELE LEW

Stanford Medicine Children's Health
CARL MENNIE

Recology

DR. RITA OHAYA

San Francisco International Airport
SUNIL PANDYA

Wells Fargo

JUAN SALAZAR
Meta

CHRIS WEBER
Oracle

LUCY WICKS
Stanford University

November 18, 2024

Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash and Members of the Council
City of San Mateo

330 West 20° Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: City of San Mateo - Small Cell Wireless Facilities Ordinance
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash and Members of the Council,

For seven decades, the San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA) has
been a leading voice for the economic engine that is San Mateo County. SAMCEDA believes in the power of a
strong economy driven by an appreciation of what that engine provides to our ecosystem on the Peninsula.

By working with employers of all sizes and industries, engaging with our public sector and elected leadership,
recognizing that we have 21 individual jurisdictions (20 cities and one county), and collaborating and
communicating with the Chambers of Commerce, non-profit organizations, and educational institutions,
SAMCEDA tackles the most difficult challenges through goal-oriented solutions.

SAMCEDA recently hosted its inaugural /ndustry Series, spotlighting the telecommunications sector and its
critical role in driving economic growth. The event brought together leaders, innovators, and stakeholders to
discuss the transformative impact of telecommunications on industries. With rapid advancements in
connectivity and infrastructure, the series underscored the growing importance of telecommunications in
fostering economic development, creating jobs, and enhancing access to resources and services. This insightful
gathering set the stage for ongoing conversations around the sector’s future and its pivotal role in shaping our
digital economy.

For the upcoming City Council Meeting, we encourage the Council to direct staff to incorporate Verizon's
revisions before the approval as this will avoid severe limitations for carriers and will overburden staff with the
exemption process.

e Robust connectivity is not optional, it’s essential for economic growth and competitiveness.

e Proposed city rules stifle innovation by creating unnecessary roadblocks to building wireless
infrastructure. These regulations prioritize unfounded fears over concrete economic benefits and
technological advancement.

e  Wecan achieve both technological advancement and aesthetic considerations. Reasonable siting
standards, guided by scientific understanding, will allow us to deploy critical infrastructure
responsibly.

e —_Let’s embrace the future and build a connected San Mateo that fosters innovation, economic growth,
and a thriving community for all.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,

JOS. Fut
Rosanne Foust
President & CEO, SAMCEDA

1900 O'Farrell Street, Suite 380 | San Mateo, California 94403 | P 650.413.5600 | F 650.413.5909 | www.samceda.org

488 of 585


--- page 489 ---
ECONOMY

a

3
=
n
z

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

ARIANE HOGAN
Chair of the Board
Genentech

WILLIAM GRAHAM

Vice Chair

Sequoia Hospital, A Dignity Health Member
FRANK R. PETRILLI

Vice Chair

Coblentz Patch Duffy & Bass

ROBERT WEBSTER

Vice Chair

Bohannon Development Company

PAUL CASIAS

Vice Chair of Finance
My-Business-Advisor LLP

ELAINE BREEZE

Secretary

SummerHill Apartment Communities

STEVE MINCEY
Past Chair of the Board
DES

ROSANNE FOUST
President & CEO
SAMCEDA

DIRECTORS

SHASTA ADDESSI
Kaiser Permanente

FRANK BARTALDO
Heritage Bank of Commerce
KEN BUSCH

Sares Regis Group of Northern California
Carol Donnelly
Embarcadero Capital Partners
GREG HURD

BKF Engineers

JENNIFER JOHNSON
Lathrop GPM

RICK KNAUF

Colliers

MICHELE LEW

Stanford Medicine Children's Health
CARL MENNIE

Recology

DR. RITA OHAYA

San Francisco International Airport
SUNIL PANDYA

Wells Fargo

JUAN SALAZAR
Meta

CHRIS WEBER
Oracle

LUCY WICKS
Stanford University

November 18, 2024

Mayor Lisa Diaz Nash and Members of the Council
City of San Mateo

330 West 20° Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

RE: City of San Mateo - Small Cell Wireless Facilities Ordinance
Dear Mayor Diaz Nash and Members of the Council,

For seven decades, the San Mateo County Economic Development Association (SAMCEDA) has
been a leading voice for the economic engine that is San Mateo County. SAMCEDA believes in the power of a
strong economy driven by an appreciation of what that engine provides to our ecosystem on the Peninsula.

By working with employers of all sizes and industries, engaging with our public sector and elected leadership,
recognizing that we have 21 individual jurisdictions (20 cities and one county), and collaborating and
communicating with the Chambers of Commerce, non-profit organizations, and educational institutions,
SAMCEDA tackles the most difficult challenges through goal-oriented solutions.

SAMCEDA recently hosted its inaugural /ndustry Series, spotlighting the telecommunications sector and its
critical role in driving economic growth. The event brought together leaders, innovators, and stakeholders to
discuss the transformative impact of telecommunications on industries. With rapid advancements in
connectivity and infrastructure, the series underscored the growing importance of telecommunications in
fostering economic development, creating jobs, and enhancing access to resources and services. This insightful
gathering set the stage for ongoing conversations around the sector’s future and its pivotal role in shaping our
digital economy.

For the upcoming City Council Meeting, we encourage the Council to direct staff to incorporate Verizon's
revisions before the approval as this will avoid severe limitations for carriers and will overburden staff with the
exemption process.

e Robust connectivity is not optional, it’s essential for economic growth and competitiveness.

e Proposed city rules stifle innovation by creating unnecessary roadblocks to building wireless
infrastructure. These regulations prioritize unfounded fears over concrete economic benefits and
technological advancement.

e  Wecan achieve both technological advancement and aesthetic considerations. Reasonable siting
standards, guided by scientific understanding, will allow us to deploy critical infrastructure
responsibly.

e —_Let’s embrace the future and build a connected San Mateo that fosters innovation, economic growth,
and a thriving community for all.

Thank you for your consideration.

Rosanne Foust
President & CEO, SAMCEDA

1900 O'Farrell Street, Suite 380 | San Mateo, California 94403 | P 650.413.5600 | F 650.413.5909 | www.samceda.org

489 of 585


--- page 490 ---
2024
Wireless Ordinance and 
Policy Update
Public Works Department
Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager
City Council 
11/18/2024
1
490 of 585

--- page 491 ---
2   of   42
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  Background
II. May 2024 City Council Direction
III. October 2024 SIC Feedback and Comments  
IV. Summary of Changes
V. Compared to Encinitas 
VI. Public Comments
VII. Staff Recommendation
VIII.  Next Steps
IX. Questions
491 of 585

--- page 492 ---
3   of   42
Staff Recommendation
Public & industry input obtained
City Council direction received in May 2024
SIC recommends (4-0) to move the 
proposed Ordinance and Policy to City 
Council 
STAFF RECOMMENDS CITY COUNCIL 
1. Adopt a resolution approving a City Policy establishing procedural and 
substantive rules for “small wireless facilities” in the public right-of-way; 
•
Effective immediately Sections 2–6, 9-13 
2. Introduce the proposed ordinance amending SMMC Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”
•
Adoption 12/9/2024 
•
Ordinance and Full Policy Effective 30 days after adoption
Ordinance & Policy Updates proposed
These updates are defensible and 
responsive
492 of 585

--- page 493 ---
|. BACKGROUND

© a
4urror™


--- page 494 ---
5   of   42
Ordinance History
2018
First application 
for small cell 
received
2019
FCC 18-133
“Small Cell Order”
2020
Development of 
Wireless Small Cell 
Design Standards 
and Ordinance 
(Update)
2021 
Adoption of New 
Design Standards 
and Ordinance
Nov 18, 2024
City Council 
Meeting 
1st Reading
2018
Adopted first 
Wireless 
Ordinance 
(17.10)
2021 -  Jan 2024
Large influx of wireless 
small cell applications
•
Internal Process
•
Industry Standards
•
Constructability
•
Community Feedback
May 6, 2024
City Council 
Study Session
Oct 23, 2024
SIC SS
Proposed 
Draft 
Ordinance 
and Policy
Dec 9, 2024
Ordinance 
Adoption
494 of 585

--- page 495 ---
6   of   42
Update Approach
City 
Community 
Industry
2024 Updated 
Wireless Small Cell and Design 
Standard and Ordinance
495 of 585

--- page 496 ---
7   of   42
Community Feedback Outreach 
+
+
Community Meetings
Email
Letters
496 of 585

--- page 497 ---
8   of   42
Summary of Community Feedback (June 23 – April 24)
Restrictions on Residential Land-Uses
Gap In Coverage
Appeal Process
City Internal Review Process
Public Notices and Outreach
Definitions and Clarity 
Post Construction
Required Facility Separation
Pole Options
Conformance to Other Regulations
Technical Installation Standards
Application Requirements
MORE 
RESTRICTIVE 
LESS 
RESTRICTIVE
NEUTRAL
Industry
Community
497 of 585

--- page 498 ---
9   of   42
II. MAY 2024 City Council Direction
498 of 585

--- page 499 ---
10   of   42
May 2024 Council Study Session – Direction (I)
Definitions and Clarity
Conformance to State Regulations
Appeal Process
Objective Standards
Public Notices and Outreach
Facility Separation
Pole Options
Post-Construction
COUNCIL DIRECTION
TOPIC
Explore objective design standards for less intrusive installations
Comply with state-mandated batch processing rules
Use hearing officers for appeal arbiter and extend appeal window
Define “technically infeasible,” remove conflicting requirements, 
and clarify design cases
Make notices more visible and multilingual and use informed delivery
Increase separation requirements while maintaining flexibility
Expand pole options and include discretion to use freestanding poles
Require applicants to submit annual RF compliance
499 of 585

--- page 500 ---
11   of   42
May 2024 Council Study Session – Direction (II)
Installation Standard
City Review Process
Conformance to Other Regulations
Appeal Cost Recovery
Application Requirements
Residential Category
Review City of Encinitas Ordinance
Restrictions Instead of Preferences
COUNCIL DIRECTION
TOPIC
Explore options to reduce number of meter pedestals in ROW
Explore options to use third-party experts
Amend the design guidelines to be consistent with other 
requirements
Adopt an appeal fee that is minimal and not cost-prohibitive
Revise application requirements to require all relevant 
information upfront
Consolidate the definition of residential
Inquire what issues the City of Encinitas has encountered
Explore restricted areas instead of only site preferences
500 of 585

--- page 501 ---
12   of   42
III. OCTOBER 2024 
SUMMARY OF SIC FEEDBACK
501 of 585

--- page 502 ---
13   of   42
•
Commission voted 4-0 in favor of recommending the proposed 
ordinance and Policy to City Council
•
Understands the exception process is necessary to comply with 
federal requirements and will require additional staff time to 
review associated documents.
•
The proposed draft ordinance and policy is well balanced
•
Recommend reorganizing portions of the Policy to minimize 
potential confusion
•
Expand the definition of “technically infeasible” to include safety 
limitations and other law/requirements. 
Oct 2024 – SIC Summary 
502 of 585

--- page 503 ---
IV. SUMMARY OF CHANGES



--- page 504 ---
15   of   42
Cannot adopt 
regulation that 
“effectively prohibits” 
providers from 
providing service.
47 USC § 332 (c)(7)(B)(i)(II)
Things to Remember
The City can require 
and ensure compliance 
with FCC’s limits on RF 
emissions. 
47 USC 332 (c)(7)(B)(iv)
504 of 585

--- page 505 ---
16   of   42
SUBSTANTIAL REVISIONS – NEW PROPOSED
NEW PROPOSED
Specific Submittal Hours
Designated days for submittal 
Antenna Height
Window, minimum 18’
Pre-Approved Designs
City Policy
for new Small Cells in ROW
Batching Allowed (AB965)
Appeal Fees
$565 appeal fee 
Annual RF Compliance
Setbacks “Restricted Sites”
300ft, Residential dwelling unit, 
daycare, & school
505 of 585

--- page 506 ---
17   of   42
Setbacks
1. Any location within a residential or mixed-use zone
2. Any location within 300 feet from a residential dwelling unit
3. Any location within 300 feet from a daycare facility or school structure
4. Any location within a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone
300-ft Setback
300-ft Setback
Any Zone
•
Applicants may request an Exception to install within Restricted Sites
•
Exceptions shall demonstrate “effective prohibition” to be granted
•
Granted Exceptions may result in SWFs within Restricted Sites setbacks
SETBACKS “RESTRICTED SITES”
506 of 585

--- page 507 ---
18   of   42
Application Submittals
Mon-Tues (non-holiday) @ 9am-4pm 
Specifies when applications are 
submitted to staff
Allows staff consistency on when to 
expect applications and when 
response is due
Applicants may submit up to 50 
projects within the same application
Projects must be substantially similar 
to be batched
SPECIFIC SUBMITTAL HOURS
BATCH APPLICATION
507 of 585

--- page 508 ---
19   of   42
Antenna Heights
Min Height = 18-ft
Cannot be same elevation as 
nearest building windows
Min = 18-ft
Not at window elev
Buildings within 50-ft
Antenna Height
508 of 585

--- page 509 ---
20   of   42
Appeal Fees
Processing & prep  = $1,164
Hearing Costs          = $   668
Total PW staff cost = $1,832

Does not account for CAO

Per Matrix study 2023-24
SWF Appeal Costs
Proposed Fee = $565
Cost Recovery =  30%
Master Fee Schedule FY24-25
City Clerk = $565
Code Enf.  = $565
Planning   = $565
Other City Appeal Fees
APPEAL FEES
509 of 585

--- page 510 ---
21   of   42
New Policies
Requires PW Director adoption
Only for Preferred Locations:
• No noticing requirements
• Only Applicant may appeal
Annual affirmation from qualified 
RF-engineer
Submitted every January
Pre-Approved Designs
Annual RF Compliance 
510 of 585

--- page 511 ---
22   of   42
SUBSTANTIAL REVISIONS - CHANGES (PART 1 of 3)
EXISTING
Location Preferences
Zoning only
Frontage PUEs 
Does allow
Preferred Structure
Existing poles
Public Notice
“Spam” mail & letter-size
PROPOSED
Location Preferences
Street, zoning, & clearances
Frontage PUEs
Not allowed
Preferred Structure
Farthest from residential
Public Notice
Postcard mailer & poster notice
511 of 585

--- page 512 ---
23   of   42
Public Notice
Currently, letter size prints taped to 
proposed pole and nearby poles
Site Posted Notices will be printed 
large poster-style on A-Frames
SITE NOTICE
Currently, basic envelope 
“looks like spam mail”
New standard is a postcard mailer
USPS Informed Delivery required
MAILED NOTICE
Public Notice
512 of 585

--- page 513 ---
24   of   42
Location Preferences
Based on zoning land use
CURRENT LOCATION PREFERENCES
Based on street class, zoning, & 
clearance to residential/other antennas
PROPOSED LOCATION PREFERENCES
Location Preferences
513 of 585

--- page 514 ---
25   of   42
Location Preferences
1. Manufacturing
2. Transportation Corridor or TOD
3. Executive
4. Central Business
5. Commercial
6. Agricultural & Open Space
7. Shoreline
8. Residential Multi-Family
9. Residential Single Family
CURRENT LOCATION PREFERENCES
PROPOSED LOCATION PREFERENCES
MOST  to  LEAST  Preferred
“Preferred Locations”
1. Non-res/mixed-use zone along arterial
2. Non-res/mixed-use zone along collector
3. Non-res/mixed-use zone along local
4. Within 300-ft of another SWF
5. Within 300-ft of res/mixed-use zone*
6. Res/mixed-use zone along arterial*
7. Res/mixed-use zone along collector* 
8. Res/mixed-use zone along local*
*These tiers fall under “Restricted Sites”
CURRENT LOCATION PREFERENCES
PROPOSED LOCATION PREFERENCES
514 of 585

--- page 515 ---
26   of   42
SUBSTANTIAL REVISIONS - CHANGES (PART 2 of 3)
EXISTING
Mounting Preference
“Top of pole” only
Alt Sites Analysis
500-ft, 
Render only for proposed site
Director Findings
4 broad findings
Existing Pole Options
Utility & streetlights
PROPOSED
Mounting Preference
Top -> Pole -> Side
Alt Sites Analysis 
300-ft, 
Render for all feasible sites
Director Findings
9 specific findings
Existing Pole Options
Utility, streetlights, & signals
515 of 585

--- page 516 ---
27   of   42
Mounting Preferences
Pole-Top
Pole-Mount
Side-Arm
Mounting Preference
516 of 585

--- page 517 ---
28   of   42
Director Findings
1.
Applicant and SWF comply with SMMC 17.10 and 
Design Standards and App Requirements
2.
Application deemed complete by Director
3.
Application complies with all applicable federal, 
state, and local laws
4.
Application demonstrates compliance with FCC 
rules for RF emissions
CURRENT REQUIRED FINDINGS
1.
Project qualifies as “small wireless facility” as defined by 
FCC
2.
Application meets all design requirements of Muni Code 
and City Policy (complies with all applicable federal, state, and 
local laws) 
3.
Project in Preferred Locations, most-preferred location, 
or granted exception
4.
Project on most preferred structure or granted exception
5.
Project not on a prohibited structure
6.
Applicant has demonstrated it can obtain service 
connections and provides plans showing proposed 
service connection route
7.
Applicant demonstrates compliance with FCC rules for RF 
emissions
8.
All required public notice has been given
9.
Applicant has paid all fees/deposits or enrolled in 
quarterly billing
PROPOSED REQUIRED FINDINGS
CURRENT REQUIRED FINDINGS
PROPOSED REQUIRED FINDINGS
517 of 585

--- page 518 ---
29   of   42
SUBSTANTIAL REVISIONS - CHANGES PART (3 of 3)
EXISTING
Appeal Window
5-days
Appeal Authority
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Appeal Basis
Anything not RF related
Build-Out Period
1yr w/ (1) optional 1yr extension
PROPOSED
Appeal Window
10-days
Appeal Authority
Hearing Officer
Appeal Basis
Limited to Director Findings
Build-Out Period
1yr w/(1) optional 6mo 
extension
518 of 585

--- page 519 ---
V. COMPARED TO ENCINITAS



--- page 520 ---
31   of   42
Compared to Encinitas – SAME (Part 1 of 2)
Voluntary Meetings
“Technically Infeasible”
Email Notifications
Section 6409 not in Policy
City of 
Encinitas 
520 of 585

--- page 521 ---
32   of   42
Compared to Encinitas – SAME (Part 2 of 2)
Annual RF affirmation
Pre-Approved Designs
Exceptions Process
1 Year Buildout Period
City of 
Encinitas 
521 of 585

--- page 522 ---
33   of   42
Compared to Encinitas – DIFFERENCES (Part 1 or 2)
Batched Applications
Up to 50 projects
Submittal Notices
Applicant mails notice
Appeals
10-day, Hearing Officer
Application Submittals
Email Submittal Window
Batched Applications
Up to 5 projects
Submittal Notices
Encinitas mails notice
Appeals
7-day, City Council
Application Submittals
In-Person Appointment
City of 
Encinitas 
522 of 585

--- page 523 ---
34   of   42
Compared to Encinitas – DIFFERENCES (Part 2 of 2)
Coverage & Capacity
Required
Fire Department Review
No
Antenna Height
Min height, not window elev
Restricted Sites
300-ft to Res/Day/School
Coverage & Capacity
Not Required
Fire Department Review
Yes - Encinitas FD
Antenna Height
Max 5-ft over support
Restricted Sites
500-ft R/D/S, coastal, historic
City of 
Encinitas 
523 of 585

--- page 524 ---
VI. PUBLIC COMMENTS

35 of 42



--- page 525 ---
36   of   42
General Public Comment Summary 
Community 
Industry
Not in favor of restricted areas and exception 
process
Not in favor of all reviews being done by 
consultants
Does not want RF Annual Affirmation
Summary: The industry thinks our 
policy and ordinance is too restrictive 
and burdensome.
Location and design standards are too restrictive 
and may lead to reduction in small cell 
investments in San Mateo
Not in favor of height restrictions (i.e., Window)
Want to default all reviews to consultants
Expand ASA to 500 feet. More public input on 
location selection 
Want “stealthing” design requirements
Appeals to remain at SIC
Summary: The community thinks the 
proposed policy and ordinance 
should be more restrictive. 
Want the new policy and ordinance applied ASAP
525 of 585

--- page 526 ---
VII. STAFF RECOMMENDATION



--- page 527 ---
38   of   42
Staff Recommendation
Public & industry input obtained
City Council direction received in May 2024
SIC recommends (4-0) to move the 
proposed Ordinance and Policy to City 
Council 
STAFF RECOMMENDS CITY COUNCIL 
1. Adopt a resolution approving a City Policy establishing procedural and 
substantive rules for “small wireless facilities” in the public right-of-way; 
•
Effective immediately Sections 2–6, 9-13 
2. Introduce the proposed ordinance amending SMMC Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”
•
Adoption 12/9/2024 
•
Ordinance and Full Policy Effective 30 days after adoption
Ordinance & Policy Updates proposed
These updates are defensible and 
responsive
527 of 585

--- page 528 ---
VIII. NEXT STEPS

© a
4urror™


--- page 529 ---
40   of   42
V. Next Steps
June 2023 – April 2024
Community Engagement
5/6/24
City Council 
Study Session
12/9/24
City Council
Ordinance & Policy
Adoption
10/23/24
S&IC
Draft Ordinance 
& Policy Review
11/18/24
City Council
Introduction
Draft Ordinance 
& Policy Adoption
1/8/24
Ordinance 
Full Policy
Effective
(30 days after 
adoption)
529 of 585

--- page 530 ---
IX. QUESTIONS

© a
4urror™


--- page 531 ---
42   of   42
Thank You
Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager
Public Works
Jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7323
Also Available To Answer Questions
Jason Hallare P.E.
 Senior Engineer
Public Works
Katherine Sheehan, P.E.
 Deputy Director
Public Works
Matt Fabry, P.E.
Director
Public Works
Prasanna Rasiah
City Attorney 
City Attorney Office
Tripp May
 Managing Partner 
Telecom Law Firm
531 of 585

--- page 532 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-6143
File ID: 24-9221
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Senior Advisory Commission – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 “Senior Citizens Commission” to change its 
name to “Senior Advisory Commission” and make other miscellaneous revisions. 
BACKGROUND:
On September 16, 2024, the City Council directed staff to update the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29 to change 
the name of the Senior Citizens Commission to the Senior Advisory Commission. The commission was formed in 1986, and 
the code has not been amended since it was adopted. As such, the code has some outdated information that is being 
updated. Under section 2.29.010, Organization, reference to the previous Senior Advisory Council has been removed, as it 
does not exist anymore. Section 2.29.020, Meetings, has been updated to reflect the meeting schedule which is the second 
Monday of every other month at 4 PM. In section 2.29.030, Powers-Duties, reference to the implementation of the 
Adopted Master Plan for Senior Services has also been eliminated, as implementation of this plan has been completed. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Ordinance introduction is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance – Track Changes 
STAFF CONTACT
Joanne Magrini, Director, Parks and Recreation
jmagrini@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7404
532 of 585

--- page 533 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance Amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.29
WHEREAS, on September 16, 2024, the City Council directed staff to update San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 2.29 to change the name of the Senior Citizens Commission to the Senior Advisory Commission; and
WHEREAS, the commission was formed in 1986, and the code has not been amended since it was 
adopted; and
WHEREAS, under section 2.29.010, Organization, reference to the previous Senior Advisory Council has 
been removed, as it does not exist anymore; and  
WHEREAS, Section 2.29.020, Meetings, has been updated to reflect the meeting schedule which is the 
second Monday of every other month at 4 PM; and   
WHEREAS, in section 2.29.030, Powers-Duties, reference to the implementation of the Adopted Master 
Plan for Senior Services is deleted, as implementation of this plan has been completed.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.29.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.010 Organization.
The senior advisory commission of the City shall consist of no more than five members appointed by the 
Council. Members shall be persons who display an interest in and appreciation of senior affairs.
Each member of the senior advisory commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and for a term 
of four years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the initial terms of the first members 
appointed shall be determined by lot at their first meeting so that each year at least one term will expire. 
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of four years.
Section 2. Section 2.29.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.020 Meetings.
Regular meetings will take place on the second Monday of every other month at 4 PM.  
Section 3. Section 2.29.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
2.29.030 Powers – Duties.
It shall be the objective of the senior advisory commission, as an advisory body to the Council, to 
encourage, foster, and facilitate programs for the enhancement of all matters relating to the social, economic, 
and personal well-being of the senior population.
533 of 585

--- page 534 ---
The Commission shall recommend to the Council the establishment and funding of programs and 
services for seniors within the City and review and make recommendations to the Council regarding any senior 
center operated by the City.
The Commission shall possess other such powers and duties as may be prescribed from time to time by 
resolution of the City Council.
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is an administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect 
physical changes in the environment.
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
534 of 585

--- page 535 ---
2.29.010
ORGANIZATION.
The senior citizens advisory commission of the City shall consist of no more than five 
members appointed by the Council. The President of the Senior Advisory Council, or designee, 
shall be an ex-officio member of the Senior Citizens Commission without the right to vote. 
Members shall be persons who display an interest in and appreciation of senior affairs.
Each member of the senior citizens advisory commission shall serve at the pleasure of 
the Council and for a term of four years or until the appointment of a successor, except that the 
initial terms of the first members appointed shall be determined by lot at their first meeting so 
that each year at least one term will expire. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of 
four years.
2.29.020
MEETINGS.
The commission shall meet within one month of its formation and establish itself by 
electing a chairperson and vice chairperson to serve at the pleasure of the board. The board 
may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the conduct of its business. A regular time and 
place of meetings shall be established and adhered to in the manner of holding public meetings 
for legislative bodies in the state.Regular meetings will take place on the second Monday of 
every other month at 4 PM.
2.29.030
POWERS—DUTIES.
It shall be the objective of the senior citizens advisory commission, as an advisory body 
to the Council, to encourage, foster, and facilitate programs for the enhancement of all matters 
relating to the social, economic, and personal well beingwell-being of the senior population.
The Commission shall recommend to the Council the establishment and funding of 
programs and services for seniors citizens within the City and review and make 
recommendations to the Council regarding any senior citizen center operated by the City.
Further, the Commission shall periodically review the efforts being made towards 
implementing the recommendations set forth in the Adopted Master Plan for Senior Services 
and shall be charged with keeping said plan current.
The Commission shall possess other such powers and duties as may be prescribed from 
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
535 of 585

--- page 536 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 24-9315
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Wet Weather Preparations - Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the City’s wet weather preparations and storm response activities.
BACKGROUND:
Staff has previously updated Council on wet weather preparation activities at the August 21, 2023, September 6, 2023, 
November 6, 2023, February 20, 2024, and September 3, 2024, Council meetings. The following sections update Council on 
recent preparatory actions and storm response activities, as well as additional actions staff have been implementing that 
have not been covered in previous presentations. For more information on past efforts related to the actions below, refer 
to the agenda reports for previous presentations. Note that the categorization and lettering/numbering of the following 
items correlates to how they were originally presented at the August 21, 2023, meeting. Items with updates are shown in 
bold for ease of review.
Immediate-Term Actions (No Additional Resources Required)
A.
Additional Marina Lagoon Pump Station pump vibration analysis at summer lagoon levels
a.
This action is complete.
B.
Develop Marina Lagoon Alternatives Analysis for Pumping Below 95 feet
a.
Staff met with Ad-hoc Lagoon Committee on November 7, 2024, to further discuss alternatives for 
pumping below 95’ for a dock maintenance period and potential additional flood storage capacity.
C.
Install debris rack at 4000 Pacific Boulevard Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
D. Provide data on City’s website for Marina Lagoon levels and pumps running
a.
This action is complete. 
E.
Implement additional safety systems for trash rack cleaning at Marina Lagoon Pump Station
a.
This action is complete.
F.
Develop a Request for Proposals (RFP) to update the 2004 Storm Drain Master Plan and develop a prioritized 
implementation strategy
a.
This action is complete.
G. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash capture devices
a.
This is an annual action item scheduled to be completed as routine maintenance throughout the year. 
All downtown devices have been completed as of October 30th. Large trash capture devices at Coyote 
Point, Dore, and Polar Avenue are scheduled to be completed by mid-November.
H. Inspect and clean all City-owned trash racks
a.
This is an annual action item. Trash racks are scheduled to be cleaned in advance of anticipated storms 
536 of 585

--- page 537 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and monitored/cleaned before and after all significant storm events. Large trash racks at 42nd, Hillsdale, 
31st Avenue PS, Marina Lagoon are regularly cleaned. The remaining trash racks will be inspected and 
completed by mid-November. 
I.
Inspect and clean all storm pump station wet wells
a.
This is an annual action item. Wet wells are scheduled to be cleaned in advance of the wet season and 
after all significant storm events. All wet wells will be inspected and cleaned by mid-November.
J.
Prepare traffic control/closures and stage materials for roads with known flooding concerns
a.
This is an annual action item.  Materials, including water walls and signs, are staged in key locations. A 
mobile trailer containing road closure materials/signage is ready for deployment, as needed. 
K.
Coordinate with Office of Emergency Services (OES) on wet weather planning and training
a.
This action is ongoing.  
L.
Work with community on Marina Lagoon Pump Station Standard Operating Procedures
a.
This action is complete.    
M. Establish a Marina Lagoon Resident Flood Watch communication program
a.
This action is ongoing. 
N. Coordinate improved public outreach and messaging on emergency preparations
a.
This action is ongoing. The City will continue to share safety messaging and emergency preparedness 
actions via City digital and print communication platforms. Staff are also working with OES on notification 
procedures in the event of an emergency and encourage residents to sign up for SMC Alerts and Nixle.
Immediate-Term Actions
1.
Perform maintenance on all five (5) diesel engines, upgrade wiring, programming, and alarms, and purchase a 
spare pump lubricator system at Marina Lagoon Pump Station 
a.
Engine maintenance is nearly complete. All five engines have been fully rehabilitated. A minor oil leak 
on one of the engines has been assessed and repairs are anticipated by the end of November. The 
engine is fully functional but will need additional oil during operation until repairs are complete.
2.
Deploy up to four (4) sandbag stations throughout the City for upcoming rainy season, with focus on areas with 
history of flooding, and coordinate with community volunteers for filling bags, monitoring stations 
a.
Staff has (3) locations: 1) the Anchor Road parking lot near the Bay Trail; 2) the parking lot at the City’s 
Corporation Yard; and 3) the parking lot of Beresford Park. Staff tried to secure a 4th location in the 
North Central neighborhood at the National Guard facility or San Mateo/Foster City School District 
facilities but have not gotten support from either entity.  
3.
Inspect and clean all catch basins before rainy season and recurring cleaning at hot spots throughout rainy 
season
a.
This is now an annual maintenance action and ongoing. Two (2) maintenance staff, funded through the 
Stormwater Fee, are providing full-time M-F cleaning of catch basin. Additional crews for after hours 
and weekend shifts are being scheduled ahead wet-weather and anticipating fall leaf-drop impacts.
Short-Term Actions
4.
Localized lagoon maintenance dredging under existing permit 
a.
This action is ongoing. Staff selected a consultant, Moffatt & Nichol, to prepare final design packages for 
anticipated construction in Summer 2025.  Review of lagoon bathymetric data has been completed and 
preparation of a Sampling and Analysis Plan (SAP) is underway. 
5.
Localized, small-scale drainage improvements
a.
This action is complete. Five (5) locations have been repaired this season. Additional funding through 
the Stormwater Fee is being allocated to perform investigations on other locations next season.
6.
Camera monitoring of priority creeks/trash racks
a.
This action is ongoing. Procurement of cameras is complete, and installation is being scheduled at 4 
locations by end of December.
7.
LiDAR aerial survey (Ground surface, creeks, and lagoon bathymetric)
537 of 585

--- page 538 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
a.
This action is complete.  
Mid-Term Actions
8.
Storm Drain Master Plan update
a.
This action is ongoing. Current tasks include evaluation of field data, initial storm model development 
and condition assessments of pump station components.  
9.
Marina Lagoon Dredging: Design, environmental, and permitting
a.
This action is ongoing. On October 31, 2024, staff hosted a boat tour of the Lagoon for staff members 
from the Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) and the offices of Congressmember Mullin, Senator Padilla, 
Senator Becker, and Assemblymember Papan.  The Mayor, Deputy Mayor, and Councilmember Hedges 
also attended portions of the tour.  Follow-up meetings are being scheduled to discuss the best options 
for partnering with the ACOE on future large-scale dredging efforts.  Staff will evaluate allocating funds 
to initiate design and permitting activities for Fiscal Year 25-26 pending discussions with the ACOE.  Staff 
will also continue working with the City’s federal legislative advocate to pursue an earmark funding 
allocation.    
Additional Activities

Staff met with OneShoreline on September 17 and October 8, 2024 to discuss the Community Rating System, a 
voluntary program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that provides tiered rate reduction 
benefits for flood insurance policies as agencies implement increased flood control management measures.  
Staff will continue evaluating participation options for the City as a way to reduce the financial burden on 
property owners remaining in FEMA flood hazard zones within the City limits.  

Staff met with the Marina Lagoon ad-hoc committee to discuss various issues, including the alternatives analysis 
for safely pumping the Lagoon below 95’, preliminary design information for planned spot dredging efforts at 
the creek mouths, Marina Lagoon wet weather preparatory efforts, including improvements at the Marina 
Lagoon Pump Station, and to answer community questions.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this informational update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update to City Council relating to the City’s wet weather preparations and storm response activities is 
not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or 
indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522-7309
538 of 585

--- page 539 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-2011
File ID: 24-9313
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
November 18, 2024 
SUBJECT:
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan - Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to: 1) increase salary ranges for City Attorney, City Manager, 
Department Heads, and Deputy Directors 2) increase executive leave to 80 hours for Department Heads and 3) adjust the 
deferred compensation and retirement health savings account (RHSA) language for the City Manager, City Attorney, 
Department Heads and Deputy Directors.
BACKGROUND:
The City Council determines the salary and benefits compensation for employees. The Department Heads and Deputy 
Directors are not represented by a bargaining group, and their salary ranges are determined by the City Council. The 
Department Heads are in at-will positions and serve at the pleasure of the City Manager. The Deputy Director 
classifications are in the competitive service as defined by Municipal Code Chapter 2.57. 
The majority of Department Heads and Deputy Directors last received increases to their salary ranges on March 5, 2023. 
The proposed Resolution recommends a 3 percent increase effective November 24, 2024 to the salary ranges for 
department heads and deputy directors, with a 5.9 percent increase for the Director of Information Technology 
classification, and a 2 percent increase for the Deputy Director of Finance classification since both were found to be behind 
the market median in the most recent total compensation survey. The proposed Resolution also provides for a 3 percent 
increase effective November 23, 2025, and a 3 percent increase effective November 22, 2026, for all Department Heads 
and Deputy Directors. The updated Resolution also gives the City Attorney and City Manager a 3 percent cost of living 
adjustment (COLA), the same amount at the same time as the unrepresented Department Heads, as outlined in their 
respective employment agreements dated February 5, 2024, and June 20, 2023. 
In addition, the proposed Resolution increases the executive leave accrued by Department Heads from forty-eight (48) 
hours to eighty (80) hours starting the first full pay period following approval of the compensation plan. The Resolution 
also updates the deferred compensation and retirement health savings account (RHSA) language in the Compensation Plan 
to adjust how discretionary leaves are distributed upon separation from the City for the City Manager, City Attorney, and 
Misc. Department Heads. All other proposed changes to the Compensation Plan are clean up to outdated language. 
Pursuant to City Charter Section 4.02, the City Council provides for the compensation of all officers and employees and 
salaries shall be fixed by Resolution. Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR), Section 570.5, requires the City 
Council to adopt a full salary schedule, as a standalone document detailing the rates of pay for each City classification, and 
to maintain this salary schedule as a publicly available document for at least five years. The California Public Employees’ 
Retirement System (CALPERS) uses this salary schedule to determine the “compensation earnable” when calculating the 
monthly pension an individual will receive when they retire. “Compensation earnable” is defined by the Public Employees’ 
539 of 585

--- page 540 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Retirement Law (PERL) Government Code Sections 20636, and 20636.1 as pay rate and special compensation as defined in 
the statutes. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact due to the compensation adjustments for department heads and deputy directors. The 
adopted FY 2024-25 budget assumed 3 percent salary range increases, and the additional proposed equity adjustments 
can be accommodated within existing departmental budget appropriations.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
   Exhibit A – City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head, Deputy Director Compensation Plan 
Att 2 - Track Changes Exhibit A - City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head, Deputy Director Compensation Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Abby Veeser, Deputy Director
aveeser@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
540 of 585

--- page 541 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2024)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE CITY ATTONEY, CITY MANAGER, DEPARTMENT HEAD, AND DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN
WHEREAS, the Department Heads and Deputy Directors are not represented by a bargaining group, 
and compensation is determined by the City Council; and,
WHEREAS, executive positions consist of the at-will heads of city departments who serve at the 
pleasure of the City Manager; and,
WHEREAS, Deputy Director classifications are in the competitive service as defined by Municipal 
Code Chapter 2.57; and,
WHEREAS, a consolidated compensation plan specific to the City Attorney, City Manager, 
Department Heads, and Deputy Directors has been set forth in a resolution; and,
WHEREAS, the Adopted FY 24-25 Budget assumed three percent (3%) salary increases for City Attorney, City 
Manager, Department Heads, and Deputy Directors as set forth in the resolution; and
WHEREAS, the total compensation survey recommends a five and nine tenths percent (5.9%) 
increase to the Director of Information Technology salary range effective November 24, 2024; and,
WHEREAS, the total compensation survey recommends a two percent (2.0%) increase to the 
Deputy Director of Finance salary range effective November 24, 2024; and,
WHEREAS, the resolution results in no significant budget impact in fiscal year 2024-25; and,
WHEREAS, the City recommends an additional thirty-two (32) hours of executive leave for 
Department Heads, bringing their total accruals to eighty (80) hours, based on the hours they work outside 
regular hours.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in 
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).
2.
The amendments to the Consolidated City Attorney, City Manager, Department Head, and 
Deputy Director Compensation Plan, for the City Attorney, City Manager, Department Head, 
and Deputy Director classifications, are approved as follows: 
Salary: 3.0 percent increase for Department Heads and Deputy Directors effective 
541 of 585

--- page 542 ---
November 24, 2024. 3 percent COLA increase for the City Attorney and City Manager per 
their respective agreements effective November 24, 2024.
 
Executive Leave: Department Heads shall accrue eighty (80) hours per year of executive 
leave, on a pay period basis, effective November 24, 2024.
Deferred Compensation: An update to the deferred compensation and retirement health 
savings account (RHSA) language of the Compensation Plan as outlined in Exhibit A.
3.
The amendments to the Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and 
Deputy Director Compensation Plan, for the Director of Information Technology and the 
Deputy Director of Finance classifications, are approved as follows:
Salary Increases effective November 24, 2024:
5.9 percent increase for Director of Information Technology
2 percent increase for Deputy Director of Finance
4.
The Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director 
Compensation Plan, including the salaries set forth in Exhibit A, Attachment 1 attached hereto are 
approved.
542 of 585

--- page 543 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONSOLIDATED CITY MANAGER, CITY ATTORNEY, DEPARTMENT HEAD AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR
COMPENSATION PLAN
SALARY
Successful employee performance is a key factor in determining compensation.
Salaries have been established for the City Manager and the City Attorney. The current amounts are 
listed in Attachment 1.
A three-step salary range has been established for each Department Head and Deputy Director 
classification. The proposed salary ranges with three percent (3%) increases, and a five and nine 
tenths precent (5.9%) increase for the Director of Information Technology classification  and a two 
percent (2%) increase for the Deputy Director of Finance are listed in Attachment 1. Effective 
November 23, 2025, the proposed salary ranges will receive three percent (3%) increases. Effective 
November 22, 2026, the proposed salary ranges will receive three percent (3%) increases. Salary 
placement is based upon performance review and experience.
The City Manager is authorized to offer unrepresented management employees or potential 
unrepresented management employees, on a case by case basis, additional fringe benefits 
incentives, not to exceed 10% of the position’s base salary.
TEMPORARY UPGRADE PAY
In the event the City Manager determines that it is necessary to assign a Department Head or 
Deputy Director to perform all of the duties of a higher paid classification for two or more 
consecutive workweeks, he/she shall receive payment for the higher classification for the entire 
duration of the assignment. The City Manager shall set the salary within the established salary 
range. Except with the approval of the City Manager, a temporary upgrade assignment shall not 
continue for longer than one year.
When an employee performs a significant portion but not all of the duties of a higher paid 
classification, the employee may petition the City Manager for a differential in pay of up to 10%, to 
be determined by duties assigned for this work out of class.
EMERGENCY WORK
In the event a City Council declared emergency necessitates the devotion of excessive working time 
by certain management employees in order to maintain essential public services, the City Manager 
may authorize overtime on a case-by-case basis. Such authorization shall terminate upon cessation 
of the City Council declared emergency.
PERSONAL TRAINING
Department Heads and Deputy Directors are encouraged to attend instructional programs, 
conferences and seminars as available in the department’s budget. If the cost to attend exceeds 
$2,000, attendance must be pre-approved by the City Manager.
543 of 585

--- page 544 ---
LEAVE ACCRUALS
Employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday leave on a pro-rata basis in proportion 
to regular hours on the payroll. Credit shall not be received for time off without pay. Vacation leave, 
sick leave, and holiday credits shall accrue from date of appointment.
Absences of less than four hours shall not be deducted from leave balances. Employees are 
expected to work a minimum of 40 hours per week, with schedules that may vary from day to day 
based on workplace needs.
HOLIDAYS
The holidays to be observed are as follows:
A.
New Year's Day, January 1st
B.
Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
C.
President's Day, 3rd Monday in February
D.
Memorial Day, last Monday in May
E.
Juneteenth, June 19th
F.
Independence Day, July 4th
G.
Labor Day, 1st Monday in September
H.
Veteran's Day, November 11
I.
Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November
J.
The day after Thanksgiving
K.
Christmas Day, December 25th
L.
Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day of mourning
M.
Three (3) floating holidays to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the employee 
and the department. Employees shall accrue twelve (12) hours of floating holiday time 
during the first full pay period in January and July each year.
If a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If a holiday falls on Saturday, 
the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. If a holiday falls on one’s regularly scheduled 
day off, holiday time shall be granted.
In the event holidays fall while an employee is on vacation leave, such holidays shall not be charged 
as vacation leave.
Employees have a forty (40) hour maximum holiday accumulation.
Realizing that not all Safety Department Heads and Safety Deputy Directors are able to take 
holidays when they fall, as determined by the City Manager, such managers shall be compensated 
by being placed on a bi-weekly holiday factor. Holiday leave shall never accumulate to more than 
eighty (80) hours. Effective with the pay period starting December 29, 2019, such managers shall be 
compensated by receiving holiday-in-lieu pay at the rate of 5.0% of base pay each pay period.
544 of 585

--- page 545 ---
VACATION
Vacations are essential to the employee's welfare and they are granted by the City to allow 
employees relaxation and rest from their duties. It is the policy of the City not to allow the excess 
accumulation of vacation leave. All full-time employees shall be entitled to vacation leave with pay 
as provided below after completion of continuous service with the City. The time at which an 
employee may take vacation shall take into consideration the needs of the City.
Employees shall accrue a vacation allowance at the rate of 20 days per year for the first 12 years of 
service, 22.5 days per year for 13 through 23 years of service, and 25 days per year at the beginning 
of 24 years of service. The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning 
employment or leaving employment with the City during a biweekly pay period.
The City Manager is authorized to provide at-will department heads with vacation accrual based 
upon the number of years of prior service with public entity employers. The City Manager and City 
Attorney are provided with this benefit.
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with a balance of up to 
80 hours of vacation leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this 
benefit.
Department Heads and Deputy Directors may not accrue more than two times (2x) their vacation 
leave.
Employees who leave employment shall be paid the straight-time salary equivalent in a lump sum for 
all accrued vacation leave earned. Such compensation for prorated vacation of separated employees 
shall be paid by adding or deducting from his or her final paycheck.
VACATION SELL BACK
An employee may make an irrevocable election to sell back to the City eighty (80) hours of 
accumulated vacation at the employee’s established rate of pay per calendar year. At the time of 
election, the
employee must already have taken a minimum of two (2) weeks’ vacation in the preceding twelve 
(12) months.
Requests must be received by Payroll no later than December 31 for the following year elections. No 
employee can elect to sell back more than their annual vacation accrual. Elected hours not requested 
for distribution (sell back) by December 1 will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell 
back cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution).
EXECUTIVE LEAVE
Department Heads shall accrue eighty (80) hours per year of executive leave and Deputy Directors 
shall accrue forty-eight (48) hours per year of executive leave, on a pay period basis. Executive 
leave for both shall have a maximum balance of eighty (80) hours. Department Heads and Deputy 
Directors may sell back up to forty (40) hours per calendar year, following the procedures outlined 
545 of 585

--- page 546 ---
in ‘VACATION SELL BACK’.
A Department Head may recommend to the City Manager that an additional amount of executive leave
546 of 585

--- page 547 ---
be authorized for a Deputy Director, up to an additional forty (40) hours. This additional leave may 
be granted based on excessive hours, the value of the extraordinary effort, and the performance of 
the employee. The City Manager has full discretion in deciding whether to grant additional leave. In 
the event that the additional hours take the employee over the eighty (80) hour maximum, they 
must sell back any hours above the maximum accumulation allowable.
SICK LEAVE
The purpose of sick leave is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their 
jobs because of illness or disability. Such sick leave is a privilege which employees can exercise in 
the event of his/her bona fide illness or disability or in the event their presence away from work is 
essential because of illness, death or disability of their immediate family.
For full-time employees, leave shall be accrued at the rate of 3.7 hours for each biweekly pay period 
(12 days per year). Unused sick leave shall be accumulated. Any employee who is on paid leave 
shall continue to earn sick leave. An employee who is on leave without pay shall not accrue sick 
leave. Sick leave shall accrue during an absence due to a work-related disability.
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with up to 80 hours of 
sick leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.
A Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide personal or family sick leave 
is taken, consistent with standards established by the City. This may include the submission of a 
doctor’s certificate with prior notice.
Protected Sick Leave
Protected sick leave may be taken and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave, vacation, holiday, 
or executive leave for the following reasons:
o
The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care 
for, an employee.
o
The diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care 
for, an employee’s family member.
o
An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Employee family member means parent, spouse, domestic partner, son, daughter, domestic partner’s 
child, sibling, stepchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren.
Not more than six (6) days of such protected sick leave shall be granted in any one (1) calendar year. 
However, if extenuating circumstances exist in the opinion of the City Manager, a reasonable 
extension of the six (6) day limit may be granted. Any additional leave so granted shall be charged 
against the worker's sick leave accumulation.
Family Care Leave
547 of 585

--- page 548 ---
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act, 
the City will grant job protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible workers for up to 12 
weeks per rolling 12-month period. The City-wide policy will adhere to applicable Federal and State 
laws.
Bereavement
In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees may take accrued sick leave of up to three
(3) days (two (2) shifts for 56-hour employees), or up to five (5) days at the discretion of the City 
Manager. Bereavement Leave shall be tracked separately from Protected Sick Leave. In this 
context, immediate family shall be defined as: spouse, domestic partner, child, foster child who 
resided with the employee at the time of his/her death, stepchild, mother, father, stepmother, 
stepfather, mother-in- law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, brother-in-law, 
sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, son-in-law, 
daughter-in-law or grandchildren.
Sick Leave Payout
Upon service or disability retirement, employees shall be paid fifty (50%) of their accrued sick leave 
up to a maximum of four hundred eighty (480) hours payment; see “DEFERRED COMPENSATION 
AND RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)” section for more details. No payments of 
sick leave shall be due or owed to anyone who is terminated by the City.
DISABILITY LEAVE
The purpose of this Section is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off 
their jobs as a result of disability occasioned or injury received as a result of the discharge of their 
duties as employees of the City. The Department Head is responsible for determining that only 
bona fide disability leave is taken.
For each disability, employees shall be allowed disability leave up to and including sixty (60) working 
days. Such disability leave shall be at full pay, less the amount paid by Workers' Compensation.
Disability in excess of that provided in this Section shall be compensated for only under the 
provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act of the State of California
If the sixty (60) working days is exhausted, additional time off may be charged to sick leave with the 
following exception; employees shall not be charged sick leave for that portion of their salary for 
which temporary disability payments are received under the State Worker's Compensation Law.
Additional compensation may be awarded by Resolution of the City Council to employees disabled 
or injured in line of duty, if recommended by the City Manager.
JURY LEAVE
Employees required to report for jury duty shall be granted a leave of absence with pay from 
their assigned duties until released by the court, provided the employee notifies their 
Department Head immediately of the notice of jury duty.
548 of 585

--- page 549 ---
MILITARY LEAVE
Military leave shall be granted by the City in accordance with the provisions of State and Federal laws.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Regardless of the combination of paid and unpaid leave used, a leave of absence shall not exceed 
twelve
(12) months in duration, unless otherwise required by law.
Leaves of absence may be granted in cases of illness; in cases of personal emergencies, including 
childbirth; for education and training; or when such absences would not be contrary to the best 
interests of the City. Any request for leave of absence shall be made in writing for review and 
approval by the City Manager.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
The City shall provide long-term disability insurance providing for a sixty (60) day elimination 
period, subject to prior exhaustion of accrued sick leave or other applicable benefits, and payment 
of a monthly benefit equivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 ⅔%) of full basic monthly 
salary less any deductible benefits.
SOCIAL SECURITY
Social Security for miscellaneous employees is paid equally by the City and the employee at 6.2% on 
the Social Security Wage Base. Safety employees hired on or after April 1, 1986 pay 1.45% as the 
Medicare cost of Social Security.
RETIREMENT
Retirement benefits shall be compensated for under applicable legislation pertaining to the 
California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS). The City currently provides the 
following retirement benefits:
Safety
o
3% @ 50 Formula with Single Highest Year Final Compensation for safety employees hired 
before December 9, 2012.
o
3% @ 55 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned 
during 36 consecutive months of service for “classic” members hired on or after 
December 9, 2012.
o
2.7% @ 57 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned 
during 36 consecutive months of service for “new” members hired on or after January 1, 
2013.
o
1959 Survivor Benefit Level 4
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse 
can elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
549 of 585

--- page 550 ---
o
Prior Service Credit
550 of 585

--- page 551 ---
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 3% @ 50 Formula or 3% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost 
rate. The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members of PERS 
hired after January 1, 2013 with the 2.7% @ 57 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The 
contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2.
Miscellaneous
o
2% @ 55 Formula with single highest year compensation for “classic members” hired 
before December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 55 Formula with three-year final compensation for “classic members” hired on or 
after December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 62 Formula with three-year final compensation for “new members” hired on or after 
January 1, 2013
o
Social Security Coverage
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse 
can elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
o
Prior Service Credit
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 2% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. The 
contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members hired after 
January 1, 2013 with the 2% @ 62 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre- tax under 414(h)2.
HEALTH INSURANCE
The City shall make contributions on behalf of employees eligible for Group Medical Coverage under 
the various plans available to the City in the amounts necessary to a maximum contribution of 
$160.00 per employee per month. The City's health contribution during part-time employment 
shall be made on a pro rata basis in accordance to hours on the payroll.
The City shall make available to eligible current and retired employees, benefits equal to 
the Meyers-Geddes State Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act.
FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN
All contributions to the flexible benefits plan are contingent upon compliance with state and 
federal rules and regulations. Benefits shall be taxed as required by law.
The City shall contribute up to $1,797.71 (inclusive of the $160 maximum City contribution towards 
group medical insurance) per month towards the flexible benefit plan.
551 of 585

--- page 552 ---
On January 1, 2019 and each January during the term of this Agreement, the City’s contribution to 
the Plan will be increased up to 100% of the Bay Area Kaiser Single rate, 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser 
Two-Party rate, and 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Family rate.
If an employee is eligible for alternative group medical insurance through a spouse or domestic 
partner’s employer-sponsored medical plan, or through a parent’s insurance, the employee may 
waive the City’s medical insurance coverage and select such alternate plan. Proof of such alternate 
coverage is required prior to waiving coverage through the City plan. Any employee who waives 
medical coverage entirely shall be eligible to receive $160.00 per month as taxable income.
LIFE INSURANCE
The City shall provide $50,000 life insurance and $10,000 accidental death and dismemberment 
insurance without regard to membership in any health plan.
DENTAL INSURANCE
The City shall provide dental care benefits for employees and their dependents including domestic 
partners. The dental benefits 100/80/80 include a maximum calendar year payment of $3,000 and 
50% orthodontic coverage with a $3,500 lifetime maximum.
VISION INSURANCE
Vision Benefits include an annual exam, lenses, and frames with an annual deductible of twenty-five 
dollars ($25).
MONTHLY AUTO ALLOWANCE OR MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
The City Manager and City Attorney shall receive a $375.00 monthly allowance. With City Manager 
approval, department heads shall receive a $375.00 monthly auto allowance.
Upon department head recommendation and City Manager approval, certain deputy directors shall 
receive a $300.00 monthly auto allowance.
Employees that do not receive a monthly auto allowance and must use their private vehicles for 
official city business shall be reimbursed at the IRS established rate.
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE
The Police Chief and Deputy Police Chief shall receive $36.73 per pay period.
DAMAGE REIMBURSEMENT
Safety employees shall be reimbursed the reasonable value of any personal equipment or 
clothing damaged or destroyed in discharging duties under stress or strain where normal 
caution cannot be exercised.
552 of 585

--- page 553 ---
HOUSING ASSISTANCE
It shall be the policy of the City to assist newly appointed Charter Officers, consisting of the City 
Manager, City Attorney and Department Heads, to reside within the City of San Mateo by making 
available, as part of their compensation, a secured loan of City funds to acquire local housing. Said 
loans shall be made available only upon the following terms and conditions:
o
It shall constitute a part of the compensation for said employees’ services, to be evidenced 
by a separate written agreement entered into at or near the time of initial appointment.
o
The loan shall not exceed an amount which is equal to four (4) times the appointee’s 
annual compensation.
o
The loan shall be available only upon residential property within the City which is, in fact, 
the residence of the employee, and shall be due and payable in full upon termination of 
the employment.
o
The loan must be secured to the satisfaction of the City Council, and evidenced by a promissory 
note secured by a deed of trust, which shall be due and payable in full upon sale or transfer of 
the property, or upon termination of the employment of the employee borrower, whichever 
occurs first.
o
The interest rate initially charged on the loan shall equal the interest rate received by the City on 
the investment of all City funds for the most recently concluded calendar year, as calculated and 
determined by the City Treasurer. The initial interest rate shall remain constant for five years 
from date of the initial agreement and shall thereafter be adjusted on each fifth anniversary of 
the agreement to the interest rate received by the City for the then most recently concluded 
calendar year.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered 457 deferred compensation plans. All 
contributions to deferred compensation plans and retirement health savings accounts are 
contingent upon compliance with state and federal rules and regulations.
Effective November 18, 2024, the RHSA Plan was modified regarding contributions and separation 
pay to reflect the following:
Safety Department Head:
o
1% City contribution to RHSA
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of discretionary leave to RHSA upon separation from 
City Service
Miscellaneous Department Heads hired before January 1, 2013:
o
2% Employee/City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
553 of 585

--- page 554 ---
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from 
City Service
City Manager, City Attorney, and Miscellaneous Department Heads hired on or after January 1, 2013:
o
2% Employee / City match to RHSA
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave to RHSA upon separation from City service
Miscellaneous Deputy Directors:
o
$50.00 per pay period employee contribution to RHSA
o
2% Employee / City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave to RHSA upon separation from City service
SEVERANCE
Employees separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their last day 
at work. Severance payment shall be provided in a lump-sum for all leave accrual eligible for 
payout. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent employees from running out vacation and 
thereafter not returning to work or returning for only a very short time period.
With City Manager approval, Department Heads shall be eligible for severance payment equal to as 
much as six months of base salary and six months benefits payment or continuation of benefits 
upon involuntary termination without “just cause”.
PROFESSIONAL DUES
Upon request, the City shall pay a reasonable amount for membership dues for one 
professional organization for each employee.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Employee performance goals are set early in the evaluation year. A mid-year review of the 
employee’s progress towards completing the performance goals should occur. A written evaluation 
shall be completed by the supervisor and reviewed with the employee at the end of the evaluation 
year.
554 of 585

--- page 555 ---
EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS SPECIFICALLY FOR DEPUTY DIRECTORS 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The probationary period is the length of time required for an employee to become proficient in 
his/her position, and for the Department Head to adequately judge the proficiency. The standard 
probationary period shall be twelve months, but the Department Head may shorten or lengthen it by 
up to six months depending on the proven proficiency of the probationer.
LIMITED DURATION POSITION
The City may hire employees in limited duration positions (non-permanent positions) that will not 
exceed three (3) years for any of the following reasons: (1) where the position is created for a 
project(s) or work that is expected to be completed within three (3) years; (2) where the position is 
funded by grant funds of three (3) or less years in duration; or (3) where the position is funded by 
moneys from capital or enterprise funds that may be unavailable after three (3) years. Employees 
shall be informed of the duration of the position at the time of employment. At the end of the 
position’s duration, employment shall terminate and the employee shall not have layoff rights, 
bumping rights, severance payments or reemployment rights. This provision shall supersede 
Personnel Rule Sections 1 (13) and
(24). Should an employee who was originally hired to fill a limited duration position be later 
appointed to a permanent merit position, his/her hire date will be that date that service began in 
the limited duration position.
CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Continuous service shall mean service in any merit classification since original appointment with 
the City, excluding any time prior to a break in service. One (1) year of completed continuous 
service shall include, but not be limited to, all time while the employee is on sick leave and/or 
vacation leave.
Neither military leave nor leave of absence without pay shall constitute an interruption in 
computing continuous service. However, leaves of absence without pay of over one month shall 
not be included when computing length of continuous service for vacation purposes.
LAYOFF
Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, it becomes necessary to abolish a position(s), 
including the reduction of work hours over twenty percent (20%) per year, the employee(s) 
displaced shall be deemed to be laid off (employees may accept an hours reduction in excess of 
twenty percent (20%) without exercising their layoff rights). The rights of employees affected by the 
abolishment of positions by the City Council shall be hereafter set forth.
Seniority for purposes of layoff need not be continuous and shall include total accumulated length 
of service under the following types of appointment:
o
Emergency appointment under SMMC 2.57.60(h) or previous SMMC Section 2.57.020 (11).
o
Regular appointment under SMMC 2.57.080.
o
Provisional appointment under SMMC 2.57.070(d).
555 of 585

--- page 556 ---
o
Appointment as City Manager's assistants under SMMC 2.57.060(a) from a position in the 
classified service.
o
Appointment as a Department Head under SMMC 2.57.060(d) from a position in the 
classified service.
556 of 585

--- page 557 ---
In the case of ties, seniority shall be determined on the basis of greater hire date seniority, then by 
random number if necessary.
Seniority for Layoff Purposes
o The least senior employee in the classification from which the position is abolished is to be first 
laid off. Prior to layoff of regular employees, temporary and/or provisional employees in the 
same classification will be laid off first. For purposes of initial layoff, seniority means time in the 
classification in question. Flexibly staffed positions will be considered a single classification for 
layoff purposes.
o For the purposes of Bumping Rights, seniority is defined as seniority within the classification 
and seniority in a directly related higher classification; i.e., a classification that is within the 
promotional line and has a higher salary.
Bumping Rights
Employees laid off may elect to be reassigned to a formerly held classification in any Unit held by an 
employee with less seniority as defined in 22.2, provided the following conditions are met:
o
The formerly held classification exists and has positions allocated and budgeted. Formerly held 
position includes successor classification if determined by the City to exist. A successor 
classification exists where the Personnel Board has changed the title of a position or included 
new duties in the same titled classification, provided that a competitive test was not thereafter 
given for the retitled or re-dutied classification.
o
The employee has the ability to perform the essential functions of the formerly held 
classification. Qualifications may be tested by the City as described in the current job 
description.
o
If the employee has more than one formerly held City classification, they shall bump to the 
classification most recently held; the employee may bump into another formerly held 
classification if no position is available in the "most recently held" classification.
Mutually Agreed Upon Transfer
The City and an employee who has been laid off or bumped may agree to an appointment to a 
classification that has a vacant position without the need for competitive testing. The following 
conditions shall apply:
o The City may test the ability of the employee for the position prior to City's decision on whether 
it will mutually agree to the transfer;
o The appointment shall be subordinate to the bumping rights of other employees and may not 
be used to prevent another employee from having access to the vacant position if permitted 
by the bumping provisions.
Severance Package
In the event there is not a less senior, formerly held position for the employee to access through 
layoff or bumping, the employee will be provided a severance package equal to two (2) weeks of 
pay for each complete year of service, to a maximum of six (6) months’ worth of pay. The City shall 
make arrangements to provide employees laid off with job search assistance for forty-five (45) days 
following
557 of 585

--- page 558 ---
the effective date of layoff. Job search assistance shall include job and career counseling, resume 
preparation, and job search assistance at City expense.
Salary in Event of Change Due to Layoff
An employee's rate of compensation in the event of position change resulting from layoff shall be 
the salary step in the classification to which the employee is laid off which is closest to the base 
salary received immediately prior to layoff.
Notice of Layoff
The City will notice the employee to be laid off and the employees who will be impacted by 
bumping by registered mail or hand delivery. Affected employee organizations shall be noticed 
concurrently by registered mail. The notice shall be sent to the mailing address as shown on the 
employee's last paycheck unless a more recent address has been provided to the Human Resources 
Department by the employee. After notice to the employee and employee organizations, the names 
of employees to whom layoff notices have been sent will be posted at the Human Resources 
Department in City Hall. The notice shall state the layoff action to be taken, the options available to 
the employee, reemployment rights, and layoff procedures. Employees shall have ten (10) calendar 
days to inform the Human Resources Department in writing of the decisions on options stated in 
the notice. In the event that the employee fails to state their decision, the City shall select an option 
and City's decision shall not be subject to appeal. The City shall select an option that retains 
employment with the City if such option exists. The failure to receive notice shall not be grounds to 
set aside actions taken.
Effective Date of Layoff
Thirty (30) calendar days after notice is mailed to the employee, unless a later effective date is 
stated in the notice. An appeal shall not modify the effective date, provided, however, that where 
an appeal is successful and the layoff is nullified the employee shall be provided salary and benefits 
as if there was not a layoff.
Appeal of Layoff
An employee may not appeal the decision to lay off his/her position, but may appeal the order of 
layoff, the bumping provisions (except the test or results of a test of qualifications), and the 
seniority computation by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Department stating the 
basis of the appeal. An appeal must be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of mailing of notice. 
The appeal shall be heard by the City Manager/designee within ten (10) calendar days of filing the 
appeal. A decision will be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing. Notice will be 
given by first class mail to the employee and the Association. A further appeal to the Personnel 
Board may be filed within five (5) calendar days of mailing by filing a written appeal with the 
Human Resources Office stating the basis for the appeal. The hearing will be held within ten (10) 
calendar days of the filing of the appeal or as soon thereafter as a quorum of the Board may be 
gathered and a decision rendered within five (5) calendar days of the hearing.
Recall and Reinstatement
Employees shall be entitled to recall rights to the position from which they were laid off or bumped 
558 of 585

--- page 559 ---
for a
559 of 585

--- page 560 ---
period of two (2) consecutive years from the effective date of layoff or bumping. The effective date 
of layoff or bumping shall be the employee's last day of work in the classification from which they 
were laid off or bumped.
When a vacancy occurs in a job classification, laid off or bumped employees eligible to return to that 
job classification shall be recalled in the inverse order of bump or layoff. Permanent employees 
who were laid off or bumped are eligible to return to the job classification in which permanent 
status was held.
Employees reinstated under this Section shall not be subject to a new probationary period. 
Probationary employees who did not have permanent status at the time of layoff shall be required 
to serve the remainder of any probationary period upon recall.
When a vacancy exists and employees are to be recalled, notice of the opening(s) shall be sent to 
the mailing address as shown on the employee's last paycheck unless a more recent address has 
been furnished by the laid off/bumped employee. To expedite recall, more than one employee may 
be notified of an opening.
The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to reply to City from the date of mailing of the 
recall notice. If employees fail to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days of notice to the City, 
they shall lose all recall rights. It is the responsibility of the employee who has been laid off to keep 
the City informed of their address and telephone number. The City has no responsibility to attempt 
to trace an employee if notice of reinstatement is not delivered by the Post Office.
Employees reinstated after layoff shall be treated as though they have been on leave of absence 
without pay in computing salary, vacation, sick leave and other benefits. The right to reinstatement 
is contingent upon the ability of the employee to perform the essential functions of the position to 
which the employee is being returned.
REEMPLOYMENT
Any permanent employee, separated from a position through resignation and without fault of 
delinquency on their part, upon recommendation of the reemploying Department Head may be 
reemployed to the former position, or to another position in the same class, within two (2) years, 
provided there is an authorized vacancy and the employee meets the requirements for 
employment. Reemployed employees shall be subject to a probationary period, and upon the 
recommendation of the reemploying Department Head, may receive credit for former employment 
in the determination of the amount of vacation allowance, sick leave, other benefits and their salary 
step.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Employees who are safety personnel covered by the Police Officers’ Bill of Rights (POBR) shall 
continue to have those rights afforded them.
The term "disciplinary action" shall include the following actions which may be taken by a 
Department Head:
560 of 585

--- page 561 ---
A.
Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only)
561 of 585

--- page 562 ---
B.
Suspension without pay up to thirty (30) calendar days;
C.
Salary reduction;
D.
Demotion; or
E.
Dismissal
A reduction in hours or a change in schedule, scheduling for workload reasons, a change in 
work assignment, layoff, letter of reprimand, and performance evaluations shall not be 
considered as discipline (unless otherwise noted above).
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be 
notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action at least five (5) working days in advance of the 
pre- disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. “Working days” is defined as days on which City Hall is open for 
business. Such written notification shall include a statement of the proposed disciplinary action to 
be taken; a statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based which shall set forth 
clearly and with such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said 
charges; a statement indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules 
or other relevant City policies; and a statement describing any actions taken against the employee 
in the past.
Whenever disciplinary action is taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be notified in writing of 
the action taken. Such written notification shall include a statement of the disciplinary action 
taken; a statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based, which shall set forth 
clearly and with such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said 
charges; a statement indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules 
or other relevant City policies; a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the 
past; and a statement advising the employee that the written notice is to be placed in his/her 
official personnel file and that he/she has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board. A Department 
Head may impose discipline immediately.
APPEAL OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION
A deputy director can appeal the receipt of disciplinary action to the Personnel Board by delivering 
a written notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within ten (10) working days of the 
date the written notice of disciplinary action was served upon him/her. In the event the deputy 
director fails to deliver a notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within said ten (10) 
working day period, the disciplinary action shall become final, and the Deputy Director shall have no 
further right to appeal.
The written notice of appeal filed with the Human Resources Department shall not be required to be 
in any particular format; however, it shall contain at least the following information:
1.
The name and address of the deputy director;
2.
The date of the disciplinary action and a statement to the effect that the deputy director 
appeals the disciplinary action; and
3.
The notice of appeal shall be dated and signed by the deputy director or by his/her 
representative.
562 of 585

--- page 563 ---
When the Human Resources Department receives a notice of appeal which complies with the 
requirements set forth herein, the Human Resources Director shall schedule the matter for hearing. 
For a Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only), the hearing is with the 
Department Head or his/her designee. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, 
demotion, or dismissal, the hearing is scheduled at the next available regular meeting of the 
Personnel Board at least fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the notice of appeal.
For Letters of Reprimand issued to employees covered by the POBR, the Department Head or 
his/her designee shall render a final decision concerning the appeal following the hearing, within 
ten (10) days after the matter is submitted. The decision of the Department Head or his/her 
designee shall be final and conclusive. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, 
demotion, or dismissal, the Personnel Board shall render written findings and recommendations 
and final decisions concerning the appeal within ten (10) working days after the matter is submitted. 
The decision of the Personnel Board shall be final and conclusive unless determined otherwise by a 
court of competent jurisdiction.
SAFETY SHOES
The City shall provide a reimbursement of up to $200.00 every two years for one (1) pair of safety 
shoes for classifications approved for reimbursement by the department head as deemed 
necessary. Said reimbursement shall be paid against official receipts for safety shoe expenditures. 
Safety shoes shall be defined by a classification’s standard or by the employee’s department head.
563 of 585

--- page 564 ---
Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan
ATTACHMENT 1
City Manager and City Attorney
The salary for City Manager was effective November 24, 2024 based on City Council action taken on 
November 18, 2024. The salary for City Attorney was effective November 24, 2024 based on City Council 
action taken on November 18, 2024.
TITLE
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
CITY MANAGER
$167.38
$13,390.00
$29,011.67
$348,140.00
CITY ATTORNEY
$141.13
$11,290.38
$24,462.50
$293,550.00
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week. 
Department Heads
Effective November 24, 2024, the City Manager shall establish salaries for department heads for their 
respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.
JOB
CODE TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
1260
ASST CITY
MANAGER
STEP 1
127.02
10,161.71
22,017.03
264,204.37
STEP 2
133.37
10,669.79
23,117.88
277,414.59
STEP 3
140.04
11,203.28
24,273.78
291,285.32
1140
CHIEF OF
POLICE
STEP 1
145.53
11,642.44
25,225.30
302,703.62
STEP 2
152.81
12,224.57
26,486.55
317,838.69
STEP 3
160.44
12,835.80
27,810.89
333,730.59
1230
CITY CLERK
STEP 1
96.71
7,736.45
16,762.30
201,147.63
STEP 2
101.54
8,123.27
17,600.42
211,205.01
STEP 3
106.62
8,529.43
18,480.44
221,765.27
1210
CITY
LIBRARIAN
STEP 1
109.08
8,726.33
18,907.05
226,884.61
STEP 2
114.53
9,162.65
19,852.40
238,228.84
STEP 3
120.26
9,620.78
20,845.02
250,140.29
1160
DIR COMM 
DEVELOPMENT
STEP 1
109.20
8,735.72
18,927.40
227,128.85
STEP 2
114.66
9,172.51
19,873.77
238,485.29
STEP 3
120.39
9,631.14
20,867.46
250,409.55
564 of 585

--- page 565 ---
JOB
CODE TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
1270
DIR INFO
TECHNOLOGY
STEP 1
112.65
9,012.19
19,526.41
234,316.90
STEP 2
118.28
9,462.80
20,502.73
246,032.75
STEP 3
124.20
9,935.94
21,527.87
258,334.39
1250
DIR PARKS &
RECREATION
STEP 1
109.20
8,735.72
18,927.40
227,128.85
STEP 2
114.66
9,172.51
19,873.77
238,485.29
STEP 3
120.39
9,631.14
20,867.46
250,409.55
1120
DIR PUBLIC
WORKS
STEP 1
115.30
9,224.23
19,985.82
239,829.86
STEP 2
121.07
9,685.44
20,985.11
251,821.35
STEP 3
127.12
10,169.71
22,034.37
264,412.42
1220
FINANCE
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
115.04
9,203.31
19,940.50
239,286.02
STEP 2
120.79
9,663.47
20,937.53
251,250.32
STEP 3
126.83
10,146.65
21,984.40
263,812.84
DIR HUMAN
1180
RESOURCES
STEP 1
110.10
8,807.95
19,083.88
229,006.60
STEP 2
115.61
9,248.34
20,038.06
240,456.81
STEP 3
121.39
9,710.76
21,039.97
252,479.77
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
Deputy Directors
The Department Head, with City Manager concurrence, has the authority to fix compensation for his/her 
respective Deputy Director(s) in the same manner the City Manager establishes salary for department 
heads. A deputy director who disagrees with his/her placement within the range may discuss it with the 
City Manager.
Effective November 24, 2024, the deputy directors of city departments shall receive monthly salaries for 
their respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.
JOB
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
DEPUTY
CITY
STEP 1
82.52
6,601.35
14,302.92
171,635.04
2237
LIBRARIAN
STEP 2
86.64
6,931.42
15,018.07
180,216.79
STEP 3
90.97
7,277.99
15,768.97
189,227.63
DEPUTY
CDD
STEP 1
94.95
7,596.28
16,458.61
197,503.29
2135
DIRECTOR
565 of 585

--- page 566 ---
STEP 2
99.70
7,976.09
17,281.54
207,378.45
STEP 3
104.69
8,374.90
18,145.61
217,747.37
JOB
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
2271
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
PARKS &
REC
STEP 1
STEP 2
STEP 3
90.9495.4910
0.27
7,275.47
7,639.258,021.21
15,763.5216,551.701
7,379.28
189,162.26
198,620.38
208,551.40
DEP DIR
PUBLIC
STEP 1
93.67
7,493.83
16,236.63
194,839.58
2117
WORKS
STEP 2
98.36
7,868.52
17,048.46
204,581.56
STEP 3
103.27
8,261.95
17,900.89
214,810.64
DEPUTY
POLICE
STEP 1
117.82
9,425.59
20,422.12
245,065.43
2545
CHIEF
STEP 2
123.71
9,896.87
21,443.22
257,318.70
STEP 3
129.90
10,391.72
22,515.39
270,184.64
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
93.87
7,509.90
16,271.45
195,257.42
2029
OF FINANCE
STEP 2
98.57
7,885.40
17,085.02
205,020.29
STEP 3
103.50
8,279.67
17,939.27
215,271.30
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
566 of 585

--- page 567 ---
EXHIBIT A
CONSOLIDATED CITY MANAGER, CITY ATTORNEY, DEPARTMENT HEAD AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR
COMPENSATION PLAN
SALARY
Successful employee performance is a key factor in determining compensation.
Salaries have been established for the City Manager and the City Attorney. The current amounts are 
listed in Attachment 1.
A three-step salary range has been established for each Department Head and Deputy Director 
classification. The proposed salary ranges with three percent (3%) increases, and a five and nine tenths 
precent (5.9%) increase for the Police Chief Director of Information Technology classification with a 
twelve percent (12.0%) increase,  and a two percent (2%) increase for the Deputy Director of Finance 
Human Resources Director classification with a three and a half percent (3.5%) increase are listed in 
Attachment 1. Effective November 23, 2025, the proposed salary ranges will receive three percent (3%) 
increases. Effective November 22, 2026, the proposed salary ranges will receive three percent (3%) 
increases. Salary placement is based upon performance review and experience.
The City Manager is authorized to offer unrepresented management employees or potential 
unrepresented management employees, on a case by case basis, additional fringe benefits incentives, 
not to exceed 10% of the position’s base salary.
TEMPORARY UPGRADE PAY
In the event the City Manager determines that it is necessary to assign a Department Head or Deputy 
Director to perform all of the duties of a higher paid classification for two or more consecutive 
workweeks, he/she shall receive payment for the higher classification for the entire duration of the 
assignment. The City Manager shall set the salary within the established salary range. Except with the 
approval of the City Manager, a temporary upgrade assignment shall not continue for longer than one 
year.
When an employee performs a significant portion but not all of the duties of a higher paid classification, 
the employee may petition the City Manager for a differential in pay of up to 10%, to be determined by 
duties assigned for this work out of class.
EMERGENCY WORK
In the event a City Council declared emergency necessitates the devotion of excessive working time by 
certain management employees in order to maintain essential public services, the City Manager may 
authorize overtime on a case-by-case basis. Such authorization shall terminate upon cessation of the 
City Council declared emergency.
PERSONAL TRAINING
Department Heads and Deputy Directors are encouraged to attend instructional programs, conferences 
and seminars as available in the department’s budget. If the cost to attend exceeds $2,000, attendance 
must be pre-approved by the City Manager.
567 of 585

--- page 568 ---
LEAVE ACCRUALS
Employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday leave on a pro-rata basis in proportion to 
regular hours on the payroll. Credit shall not be received for time off without pay. Vacation leave, sick 
leave, and holiday credits shall accrue from date of appointment.
Absences of less than four hours shall not be deducted from leave balances. Employees are expected to 
work a minimum of 40 hours per week, with schedules that may vary from day to day based on 
workplace needs.
HOLIDAYS
The holidays to be observed are as follows:
A.
New Year's Day, January 1st
B.
Martin Luther King's Birthday, 3rd Monday in January
C.
President's Day, 3rd Monday in February
D.
Memorial Day, last Monday in May
E.
Juneteenth, June 19th
F.
Independence Day, July 4th
G.
Labor Day, 1st Monday in September
H.
Veteran's Day, November 11
I.
Thanksgiving Day, 4th Thursday in November
J.
The day after Thanksgiving
K.
Christmas Day, December 25th
L.
Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, or a day of mourning
M.
Three (3) floating holidays to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the employee and 
the department. Employees shall accrue twelve (12) hours of floating holiday time during the 
first full pay period in January and July each year.
If a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. If a holiday falls on Saturday, the 
preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. If a holiday falls on one’s regularly scheduled day off, 
holiday time shall be granted.
In the event holidays fall while an employee is on vacation leave, such holidays shall not be charged as 
vacation leave.
Employees have a forty (40) hour maximum holiday accumulation.
Realizing that not all Safety Department Heads and Safety Deputy Directors are able to take holidays 
when they fall, as determined by the City Manager, such managers shall be compensated by being 
placed on a bi-weekly holiday factor. Holiday leave shall never accumulate to more than eighty (80) 
hours. Effective with the pay period starting December 29, 2019, such managers shall be compensated 
by receiving holiday-in-lieu pay at the rate of 5.0% of base pay each pay period.
568 of 585

--- page 569 ---
VACATION
Vacations are essential to the employee's welfare and they are granted by the City to allow employees 
relaxation and rest from their duties. It is the policy of the City not to allow the excess accumulation of 
vacation leave. All full-time employees shall be entitled to vacation leave with pay as provided below 
after completion of continuous service with the City. The time at which an employee may take vacation 
shall take into consideration the needs of the City.
Employees shall accrue a vacation allowance at the rate of 20 days per year for the first 12 years of 
service, 22.5 days per year for 13 through 23 years of service, and 25 days per year at the beginning of 
24 years of service. The above allowances shall be pro-rated for employees beginning employment or 
leaving employment with the City during a biweekly pay period.
The City Manager is authorized to provide at-will department heads with vacation accrual based upon 
the number of years of prior service with public entity employers. The City Manager and City Attorney 
are provided with this benefit.
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with a balance of up to 80 
hours of vacation leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.
Department Heads and Deputy Directors may not accrue more than two times (2x) their vacation leave.
Employees who leave employment shall be paid the straight-time salary equivalent in a lump sum for all 
accrued vacation leave earned. Such compensation for prorated vacation of separated employees shall 
be paid by adding or deducting from his or her final paycheck.
VACATION SELL BACK
An employee may make an irrevocable election to sell back to the City eighty (80) hours of accumulated 
vacation at the employee’s established rate of pay per calendar year. At the time of election, the
employee must already have taken a minimum of two (2) weeks’ vacation in the preceding twelve (12) 
months.
Requests must be received by Payroll no later than December 31 for the following year elections. No 
employee can elect to sell back more than their annual vacation accrual. Elected hours not requested for 
distribution (sell back) by December 1 will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell back 
cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution).
EXECUTIVE LEAVE
Department Heads shall accrue eighty (80) hours per year of executive leave and Deputy Directors shall 
accrue forty-eight (48) hours per year of executive leave, on a pay period basis. Executive leave for 
both shall have a maximum balance of eighty (80) hours. Department Heads and Deputy Directors may 
sell back up to forty (40) hours per calendar year, following the procedures outlined in ‘VACATION SELL 
BACK’.
A Department Head may recommend to the City Manager that an additional amount of executive leave
569 of 585

--- page 570 ---
be authorized for a Deputy Director, up to an additional forty (40) hours. This additional leave may be 
granted based on excessive hours, the value of the extraordinary effort, and the performance of the 
employee. The City Manager has full discretion in deciding whether to grant additional leave. In the 
event that the additional hours take the employee over the eighty (80) hour maximum, they must sell 
back any hours above the maximum accumulation allowable.
SICK LEAVE
The purpose of sick leave is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their jobs 
because of illness or disability. Such sick leave is a privilege which employees can exercise in the event 
of his/her bona fide illness or disability or in the event their presence away from work is essential 
because of illness, death or disability of their immediate family.
For full-time employees, leave shall be accrued at the rate of 3.7 hours for each biweekly pay period (12 
days per year). Unused sick leave shall be accumulated. Any employee who is on paid leave shall 
continue to earn sick leave. An employee who is on leave without pay shall not accrue sick leave. Sick 
leave shall accrue during an absence due to a work-related disability.
The City Manager can provide new Department Heads and Deputy Directors with up to 80 hours of sick 
leave upon hire. The City Manager and City Attorney are provided with this benefit.
A Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide personal or family sick leave is 
taken, consistent with standards established by the City. This may include the submission of a doctor’s 
certificate with prior notice.
Protected Sick Leave
Protected sick leave may be taken and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave, vacation, holiday, or 
executive leave for the following reasons:
o
The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee.
o
The diagnosis, care or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care for, an 
employee’s family member.
o
An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Employee family member means parent, spouse, domestic partner, son, daughter, domestic partner’s 
child, sibling, stepchildren, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents and grandchildren.
Not more than six (6) days of such protected sick leave shall be granted in any one (1) calendar year. 
However, if extenuating circumstances exist in the opinion of the City Manager, a reasonable extension 
of the six (6) day limit may be granted. Any additional leave so granted shall be charged against the 
worker's sick leave accumulation.
Family Care Leave
570 of 585

--- page 571 ---
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act, the 
City will grant job protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible workers for up to 12 weeks per 
rolling 12-month period. The City-wide policy will adhere to applicable Federal and State laws.
Bereavement
In the event of a death in the immediate family, employees may take accrued sick leave of up to three
(3) days (two (2) shifts for 56-hour employees), or up to five (5) days at the discretion of the City 
Manager. Bereavement Leave shall be tracked separately from Protected Sick Leave. In this context, 
immediate family shall be defined as: spouse, domestic partner, child, foster child who resided with the 
employee at the time of his/her death, stepchild, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, mother-in- 
law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, 
grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandchildren.
Sick Leave Payout
Upon service or disability retirement, employees shall be paid fifty (50%) of their accrued sick leave up 
to a maximum of four hundred eighty (480) hours payment; see “DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND 
RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)” section for more details. No payments of sick leave 
shall be due or owed to anyone who is terminated by the City.
DISABILITY LEAVE
The purpose of this Section is to continue the compensation of employees who must remain off their 
jobs as a result of disability occasioned or injury received as a result of the discharge of their duties as 
employees of the City. The Department Head is responsible for determining that only bona fide 
disability leave is taken.
For each disability, employees shall be allowed disability leave up to and including sixty (60) working 
days. Such disability leave shall be at full pay, less the amount paid by Workers' Compensation.
Disability in excess of that provided in this Section shall be compensated for only under the provisions of 
the Workers' Compensation Act of the State of California
If the sixty (60) working days is exhausted, additional time off may be charged to sick leave with the 
following exception; employees shall not be charged sick leave for that portion of their salary for which 
temporary disability payments are received under the State Worker's Compensation Law.
Additional compensation may be awarded by Resolution of the City Council to employees disabled or 
injured in line of duty, if recommended by the City Manager.
JURY LEAVE
Employees required to report for jury duty shall be granted a leave of absence with pay from their 
assigned duties until released by the court, provided the employee notifies their Department Head 
immediately of the notice of jury duty.
571 of 585

--- page 572 ---
MILITARY LEAVE
Military leave shall be granted by the City in accordance with the provisions of State and Federal laws.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
Regardless of the combination of paid and unpaid leave used, a leave of absence shall not exceed twelve
(12) months in duration, unless otherwise required by law.
Leaves of absence may be granted in cases of illness; in cases of personal emergencies, including 
childbirth; for education and training; or when such absences would not be contrary to the best 
interests of the City. Any request for leave of absence shall be made in writing for review and approval 
by the City Manager.
LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
The City shall provide long-term disability insurance providing for a sixty (60) day elimination period, 
subject to prior exhaustion of accrued sick leave or other applicable benefits, and payment of a monthly 
benefit equivalent to sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 ⅔%) of full basic monthly salary less any 
deductible benefits.
SOCIAL SECURITY
Social Security for miscellaneous employees is paid equally by the City and the employee at 6.2% on the 
Social Security Wage Base. Safety employees hired on or after April 1, 1986 pay 1.45% as the Medicare 
cost of Social Security.
RETIREMENT
Retirement benefits shall be compensated for under applicable legislation pertaining to the California 
Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS). The City currently provides the following retirement 
benefits:
Safety
o
3% @ 50 Formula with Single Highest Year Final Compensation for safety employees hired before 
December 9, 2012.
o
3% @ 55 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “classic” members hired on or after December 9, 2012.
o
2.7% @ 57 Formula with highest average annual pensionable compensation earned during 36 
consecutive months of service for “new” members hired on or after January 1, 2013.
o
1959 Survivor Benefit Level 4
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
o
Prior Service Credit
572 of 585

--- page 573 ---
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 3% @ 50 Formula or 3% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. 
The contributions toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members of PERS hired 
after January 1, 2013 with the 2.7% @ 57 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2.
Miscellaneous
o
2% @ 55 Formula with single highest year compensation for “classic members” hired before 
December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 55 Formula with three-year final compensation for “classic members” hired on or after 
December 9, 2012
o
2% @ 62 Formula with three-year final compensation for “new members” hired on or after January 
1, 2013
o
Social Security Coverage
o
COLA 2% in retirement
o
Death Benefit (DB) Continues (spouse continues to get DB after remarriage)
o
Pre-Retirement Option 2 DB (If retirement eligible employee dies prior to retirement, spouse can 
elect to get ongoing retirement benefits)
o
Military Service Buyback
o
Retired Death Benefit (DB) $500
o
Prior Service Credit
o
Peace Corps: VISTA Buyback
Classic members with the 2% @ 55 Formula pay 50% of the total normal cost rate. The contributions 
toward employer rate will be pre-tax under 414(h)2. New members hired after January 1, 2013 with the 
2% @ 62 Formula pay 50% of the normal cost rate. The contributions toward employer rate will be pre- 
tax under 414(h)2.
HEALTH INSURANCE
The City shall make contributions on behalf of employees eligible for Group Medical Coverage under the 
various plans available to the City in the amounts necessary to a maximum contribution of $160.00 per 
employee per month. The City's health contribution during part-time employment shall be made on a 
pro rata basis in accordance to hours on the payroll.
The City shall make available to eligible current and retired employees, benefits equal to the 
Meyers-Geddes State Employees' Medical and Hospital Care Act.
FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN
All contributions to the flexible benefits plan are contingent upon compliance with state and federal 
rules and regulations. Benefits shall be taxed as required by law.
The City shall contribute up to $1,797.71 (inclusive of the $160 maximum City contribution towards group 
medical insurance) per month towards the flexible benefit plan.
573 of 585

--- page 574 ---
On January 1, 2019 and each January during the term of this Agreement, the City’s contribution to the 
Plan will be increased up to 100% of the Bay Area Kaiser Single rate, 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Two-Party 
rate, and 90% of the Bay Area Kaiser Family rate.
If an employee is eligible for alternative group medical insurance through a spouse or domestic partner’s 
employer-sponsored medical plan, or through a parent’s insurance, the employee may waive the City’s 
medical insurance coverage and select such alternate plan. Proof of such alternate coverage is required 
prior to waiving coverage through the City plan. Any employee who waives medical coverage entirely shall 
be eligible to receive $160.00 per month as taxable income.
LIFE INSURANCE
The City shall provide $50,000 life insurance and $10,000 accidental death and dismemberment 
insurance without regard to membership in any health plan.
DENTAL INSURANCE
The City shall provide dental care benefits for employees and their dependents including domestic 
partners. The dental benefits 100/80/80 include a maximum calendar year payment of $3,000 and 50% 
orthodontic coverage with a $3,500 lifetime maximum.
VISION INSURANCE
Vision Benefits include an annual exam, lenses, and frames with an annual deductible of twenty-five 
dollars ($25).
MONTHLY AUTO ALLOWANCE OR MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
The City Manager and City Attorney shall receive a $375.00 monthly allowance. With City Manager 
approval, department heads shall receive a $375.00 monthly auto allowance.
Upon department head recommendation and City Manager approval, certain deputy directors shall 
receive a $300.00 monthly auto allowance.
Employees that do not receive a monthly auto allowance and must use their private vehicles for official 
city business shall be reimbursed at the IRS established rate.
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE
The Police Chief and Deputy Police Chief shall receive $36.73 per pay period.
DAMAGE REIMBURSEMENT
Safety employees shall be reimbursed the reasonable value of any personal equipment or clothing 
damaged or destroyed in discharging duties under stress or strain where normal caution cannot be 
exercised.
HOUSING ASSISTANCE
574 of 585

--- page 575 ---
It shall be the policy of the City to assist newly appointed Charter Officers, consisting of the City 
Manager, City Attorney and Department Heads, to reside within the City of San Mateo by making 
available, as part of their compensation, a secured loan of City funds to acquire local housing. Said loans 
shall be made available only upon the following terms and conditions:
o
It shall constitute a part of the compensation for said employees’ services, to be evidenced by a 
separate written agreement entered into at or near the time of initial appointment.
o
The loan shall not exceed an amount which is equal to four (4) times the appointee’s annual 
compensation.
o
The loan shall be available only upon residential property within the City which is, in fact, the 
residence of the employee, and shall be due and payable in full upon termination of the 
employment.
o
The loan must be secured to the satisfaction of the City Council, and evidenced by a promissory note 
secured by a deed of trust, which shall be due and payable in full upon sale or transfer of the 
property, or upon termination of the employment of the employee borrower, whichever occurs 
first.
o
The interest rate initially charged on the loan shall equal the interest rate received by the City on the 
investment of all City funds for the most recently concluded calendar year, as calculated and 
determined by the City Treasurer. The initial interest rate shall remain constant for five years from 
date of the initial agreement and shall thereafter be adjusted on each fifth anniversary of the 
agreement to the interest rate received by the City for the then most recently concluded calendar 
year.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND RETIREMENT HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT (RHSA)
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered 457 deferred compensation plans. All 
contributions to deferred compensation plans and retirement health savings accounts are contingent 
upon compliance with state and federal rules and regulations.
Effective November 18, 2024September 10, 2017, the RHSA Plan was modified regarding contributions 
and separation pay to reflect the following:
Safety Department Heads hired by the City before June 1, 2000:
o
1% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
No leave balances to RHSA upon separation from City Service
Safety Department Heads hired by the City on or after June 1, 2000:
o
1% City contribution to RHSA
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of discretionary leave to RHSA upon separation from City 
Service
Miscellaneous Department Heads hired before January 1, 20131977:
o
2% Employee/City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
575 of 585

--- page 576 ---
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 10050% of vacationdiscretionary leave, to RHSA upon 
separation from City Service
City Manager, City Attorney, and Miscellaneous Department Heads hired on or after January 1, 20131977:
o
2% Employee / City match to RHSA
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City service
Safety Deputy Directors:
o
2% Employee contribution to RHSA
o
1% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave, and 100% of vacation leave, to RHSA upon separation from City Service
Miscellaneous Deputy Directors:
o
$50.00 per pay period employee contribution to RHSA
o
2% Employee / City match to deferred compensation
o
0.5% City contribution to deferred compensation
o
100% of eligible sick leave to RHSA upon separation from City service
SEVERANCE
Employees separating from the City shall not be allowed to remain on the payroll after their last day at 
work. Severance payment shall be provided in a lump-sum for all leave accrual eligible for payout. The 
intent of this paragraph is to prevent employees from running out vacation and thereafter not returning 
to work or returning for only a very short time period.
With City Manager approval, Department Heads shall be eligible for severance payment equal to as 
much as six months of base salary and six months benefits payment or continuation of benefits upon 
involuntary termination without “just cause”.
PROFESSIONAL DUES
Upon request, the City shall pay a reasonable amount for membership dues for one professional 
organization for each employee.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Employee performance goals are set early in the evaluation year. A mid-year review of the employee’s 
progress towards completing the performance goals should occur. A written evaluation shall be 
completed by the supervisor and reviewed with the employee at the end of the evaluation year.
EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS SPECIFICALLY FOR DEPUTY DIRECTORS 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
576 of 585

--- page 577 ---
The probationary period is the length of time required for an employee to become proficient in his/her 
position, and for the Department Head to adequately judge the proficiency. The standard probationary 
period shall be twelve months, but the Department Head may shorten or lengthen it by up to six months 
depending on the proven proficiency of the probationer.
LIMITED DURATION POSITION
The City may hire employees in limited duration positions (non-permanent positions) that will not 
exceed three (3) years for any of the following reasons: (1) where the position is created for a project(s) 
or work that is expected to be completed within three (3) years; (2) where the position is funded by 
grant funds of three (3) or less years in duration; or (3) where the position is funded by moneys from 
capital or enterprise funds that may be unavailable after three (3) years. Employees shall be informed 
of the duration of the position at the time of employment. At the end of the position’s duration, 
employment shall terminate and the employee shall not have layoff rights, bumping rights, severance 
payments or reemployment rights. This provision shall supersede Personnel Rule Sections 1 (13) and
(24). Should an employee who was originally hired to fill a limited duration position be later appointed 
to a permanent merit position, his/her hire date will be that date that service began in the limited 
duration position.
CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Continuous service shall mean service in any merit classification since original appointment with the 
City, excluding any time prior to a break in service. One (1) year of completed continuous service shall 
include, but not be limited to, all time while the employee is on sick leave and/or vacation leave.
Neither military leave nor leave of absence without pay shall constitute an interruption in computing 
continuous service. However, leaves of absence without pay of over one month shall not be included 
when computing length of continuous service for vacation purposes.
LAYOFF
Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council, it becomes necessary to abolish a position(s), including 
the reduction of work hours over twenty percent (20%) per year, the employee(s) displaced shall be 
deemed to be laid off (employees may accept an hours reduction in excess of twenty percent (20%) 
without exercising their layoff rights). The rights of employees affected by the abolishment of positions 
by the City Council shall be hereafter set forth.
Seniority for purposes of layoff need not be continuous and shall include total accumulated length of 
service under the following types of appointment:
o
Emergency appointment under SMMC 2.57.60(h) or previous SMMC Section 2.57.020 (11).
o
Regular appointment under SMMC 2.57.080.
o
Provisional appointment under SMMC 2.57.070(d).
o
Appointment as City Manager's assistants under SMMC 2.57.060(a) from a position in the classified 
service.
o
Appointment as a Department Head under SMMC 2.57.060(d) from a position in the classified 
service.
577 of 585

--- page 578 ---
In the case of ties, seniority shall be determined on the basis of greater hire date seniority, then by 
random number if necessary.
Seniority for Layoff Purposes
o The least senior employee in the classification from which the position is abolished is to be first laid 
off. Prior to layoff of regular employees, temporary and/or provisional employees in the same 
classification will be laid off first. For purposes of initial layoff, seniority means time in the 
classification in question. Flexibly staffed positions will be considered a single classification for layoff 
purposes.
o For the purposes of Bumping Rights, seniority is defined as seniority within the classification and 
seniority in a directly related higher classification; i.e., a classification that is within the promotional 
line and has a higher salary.
Bumping Rights
Employees laid off may elect to be reassigned to a formerly held classification in any Unit held by an 
employee with less seniority as defined in 22.2, provided the following conditions are met:
o
The formerly held classification exists and has positions allocated and budgeted. Formerly held 
position includes successor classification if determined by the City to exist. A successor classification 
exists where the Personnel Board has changed the title of a position or included new duties in the 
same titled classification, provided that a competitive test was not thereafter given for the retitled 
or re-dutied classification.
o
The employee has the ability to perform the essential functions of the formerly held classification. 
Qualifications may be tested by the City as described in the current job description.
o
If the employee has more than one formerly held City classification, they shall bump to the 
classification most recently held; the employee may bump into another formerly held classification if 
no position is available in the "most recently held" classification.
Mutually Agreed Upon Transfer
The City and an employee who has been laid off or bumped may agree to an appointment to a 
classification that has a vacant position without the need for competitive testing. The following 
conditions shall apply:
o The City may test the ability of the employee for the position prior to City's decision on whether it 
will mutually agree to the transfer;
o The appointment shall be subordinate to the bumping rights of other employees and may not be 
used to prevent another employee from having access to the vacant position if permitted by the 
bumping provisions.
Severance Package
In the event there is not a less senior, formerly held position for the employee to access through layoff 
or bumping, the employee will be provided a severance package equal to two (2) weeks of pay for each 
complete year of service, to a maximum of six (6) months’ worth of pay. The City shall make 
arrangements to provide employees laid off with job search assistance for forty-five (45) days following
578 of 585

--- page 579 ---
the effective date of layoff. Job search assistance shall include job and career counseling, resume 
preparation, and job search assistance at City expense.
Salary in Event of Change Due to Layoff
An employee's rate of compensation in the event of position change resulting from layoff shall be the 
salary step in the classification to which the employee is laid off which is closest to the base salary 
received immediately prior to layoff.
Notice of Layoff
The City will notice the employee to be laid off and the employees who will be impacted by bumping by 
registered mail or hand delivery. Affected employee organizations shall be noticed concurrently by 
registered mail. The notice shall be sent to the mailing address as shown on the employee's last 
paycheck unless a more recent address has been provided to the Human Resources Department by the 
employee. After notice to the employee and employee organizations, the names of employees to whom 
layoff notices have been sent will be posted at the Human Resources Department in City Hall. The 
notice shall state the layoff action to be taken, the options available to the employee, reemployment 
rights, and layoff procedures. Employees shall have ten (10) calendar days to inform the Human 
Resources Department in writing of the decisions on options stated in the notice. In the event that the 
employee fails to state their decision, the City shall select an option and City's decision shall not be 
subject to appeal. The City shall select an option that retains employment with the City if such option 
exists. The failure to receive notice shall not be grounds to set aside actions taken.
Effective Date of Layoff
Thirty (30) calendar days after notice is mailed to the employee, unless a later effective date is stated in 
the notice. An appeal shall not modify the effective date, provided, however, that where an appeal is 
successful and the layoff is nullified the employee shall be provided salary and benefits as if there was 
not a layoff.
Appeal of Layoff
An employee may not appeal the decision to lay off his/her position, but may appeal the order of layoff, 
the bumping provisions (except the test or results of a test of qualifications), and the seniority 
computation by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Department stating the basis of the 
appeal. An appeal must be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of mailing of notice. The appeal 
shall be heard by the City Manager/designee within ten (10) calendar days of filing the appeal. A 
decision will be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the hearing. Notice will be given by first class 
mail to the employee and the Association. A further appeal to the Personnel Board may be filed within 
five (5) calendar days of mailing by filing a written appeal with the Human Resources Office stating the 
basis for the appeal. The hearing will be held within ten (10) calendar days of the filing of the appeal or 
as soon thereafter as a quorum of the Board may be gathered and a decision rendered within five (5) 
calendar days of the hearing.
Recall and Reinstatement
Employees shall be entitled to recall rights to the position from which they were laid off or bumped for a
579 of 585

--- page 580 ---
period of two (2) consecutive years from the effective date of layoff or bumping. The effective date of 
layoff or bumping shall be the employee's last day of work in the classification from which they were laid 
off or bumped.
When a vacancy occurs in a job classification, laid off or bumped employees eligible to return to that job 
classification shall be recalled in the inverse order of bump or layoff. Permanent employees who were 
laid off or bumped are eligible to return to the job classification in which permanent status was held.
Employees reinstated under this Section shall not be subject to a new probationary period. 
Probationary employees who did not have permanent status at the time of layoff shall be required to 
serve the remainder of any probationary period upon recall.
When a vacancy exists and employees are to be recalled, notice of the opening(s) shall be sent to the 
mailing address as shown on the employee's last paycheck unless a more recent address has been 
furnished by the laid off/bumped employee. To expedite recall, more than one employee may be 
notified of an opening.
The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days to reply to City from the date of mailing of the 
recall notice. If employees fail to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days of notice to the City, they 
shall lose all recall rights. It is the responsibility of the employee who has been laid off to keep the City 
informed of their address and telephone number. The City has no responsibility to attempt to trace an 
employee if notice of reinstatement is not delivered by the Post Office.
Employees reinstated after layoff shall be treated as though they have been on leave of absence without 
pay in computing salary, vacation, sick leave and other benefits. The right to reinstatement is 
contingent upon the ability of the employee to perform the essential functions of the position to which 
the employee is being returned.
REEMPLOYMENT
Any permanent employee, separated from a position through resignation and without fault of 
delinquency on their part, upon recommendation of the reemploying Department Head may be 
reemployed to the former position, or to another position in the same class, within two (2) years, 
provided there is an authorized vacancy and the employee meets the requirements for employment. 
Reemployed employees shall be subject to a probationary period, and upon the recommendation of the 
reemploying Department Head, may receive credit for former employment in the determination of the 
amount of vacation allowance, sick leave, other benefits and their salary step.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Employees who are safety personnel covered by the Police Officers’ Bill of Rights (POBR) shall continue 
to have those rights afforded them.
The term "disciplinary action" shall include the following actions which may be taken by a Department 
Head:
A.
Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only)
580 of 585

--- page 581 ---
B.
Suspension without pay up to thirty (30) calendar days;
C.
Salary reduction;
D.
Demotion; or
E.
Dismissal
A reduction in hours or a change in schedule, scheduling for workload reasons, a change in work 
assignment, layoff, letter of reprimand, and performance evaluations shall not be considered as 
discipline (unless otherwise noted above).
Whenever a disciplinary action is proposed to be taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be 
notified in writing of the proposed disciplinary action at least five (5) working days in advance of the pre- 
disciplinary (“Skelly”) hearing. “Working days” is defined as days on which City Hall is open for business. 
Such written notification shall include a statement of the proposed disciplinary action to be taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based which shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; and a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past.
Whenever disciplinary action is taken against a deputy director, he/she shall be notified in writing of the 
action taken. Such written notification shall include a statement of the disciplinary action taken; a 
statement of the facts upon which the disciplinary action is based, which shall set forth clearly and with 
such particularity the charges against the employee so he/she can understand said charges; a statement 
indicating the cause for the disciplinary action pursuant to the Personnel Rules or other relevant City 
policies; a statement describing any actions taken against the employee in the past; and a statement 
advising the employee that the written notice is to be placed in his/her official personnel file and that 
he/she has a right to appeal to the Personnel Board. A Department Head may impose discipline 
immediately.
APPEAL OF DISCIPLINARY ACTION
A deputy director can appeal the receipt of disciplinary action to the Personnel Board by delivering a 
written notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within ten (10) working days of the date 
the written notice of disciplinary action was served upon him/her. In the event the deputy director fails 
to deliver a notice of appeal to the Human Resources Department within said ten (10) working day 
period, the disciplinary action shall become final, and the Deputy Director shall have no further right to 
appeal.
The written notice of appeal filed with the Human Resources Department shall not be required to be in 
any particular format; however, it shall contain at least the following information:
1.
The name and address of the deputy director;
2.
The date of the disciplinary action and a statement to the effect that the deputy director appeals 
the disciplinary action; and
3.
The notice of appeal shall be dated and signed by the deputy director or by his/her representative.
581 of 585

--- page 582 ---
When the Human Resources Department receives a notice of appeal which complies with the 
requirements set forth herein, the Human Resources Director shall schedule the matter for hearing. For 
a Letter of Reprimand (for employees covered by the POBR only), the hearing is with the Department 
Head or his/her designee. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or 
dismissal, the hearing is scheduled at the next available regular meeting of the Personnel Board at least 
fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the notice of appeal.
For Letters of Reprimand issued to employees covered by the POBR, the Department Head or his/her 
designee shall render a final decision concerning the appeal following the hearing, within ten (10) days 
after the matter is submitted. The decision of the Department Head or his/her designee shall be final 
and conclusive. For suspension without pay, in-grade salary reduction, demotion, or dismissal, the 
Personnel Board shall render written findings and recommendations and final decisions concerning the 
appeal within ten (10) working days after the matter is submitted. The decision of the Personnel Board 
shall be final and conclusive unless determined otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction.
SAFETY SHOES
The City shall provide a reimbursement of up to $200.00 every two years for one (1) pair of safety shoes 
for classifications approved for reimbursement by the department head as deemed necessary. Said 
reimbursement shall be paid against official receipts for safety shoe expenditures. Safety shoes shall be 
defined by a classification’s standard or by the employee’s department head.
582 of 585

--- page 583 ---
Consolidated City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan
ATTACHMENT 1
City Manager and City Attorney
The salary for City Manager was effective November 24, 2024August 21, 2023 based on City Council action taken 
on June 20, 2023November 18, 2024. The salary for City Attorney was effective November 24, 2024February 4, 
2024 based on City Council action taken on February 5, 2024November 18, 2024.
TITLE
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
CITY MANAGER
$167.38162.50 $13,390.0013,000.00 $29,011.6728,166.67
$348,140.00338,000.00
CITY ATTORNEY
$141.13137.02 $11,290.3810,961.54 $24,462.5023,750.00
$293,550.00285,000.00
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week. 
Department Heads
Effective April 28, 2024November 24, 2024, the City Manager shall establish salaries for department heads for 
their respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.
JOB
CODE TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
1260
ASST CITY
MANAGER
STEP 1 127.02123.32 10,161.719,865.73 22,017.0321,375.76 264,204.37256,509.10
STEP 2 133.37129.49 10,669.7910,359.02 23,117.8822,444.55 277,414.59269,334.56
STEP 3 140.04135.96 11,203.2810,876.97 24,273.7823,566.77 291,285.32282,801.28
1140
CHIEF OF
POLICE
STEP 1 145.53141.29 11,642.4411,303.34 25,225.3024,490.58 302,703.62293,887.01
STEP 2 152.81148.36 12,224.5711,868.51 26,486.5525,715.10 317,838.69308,581.25
STEP 3 160.44155.77 12,835.8012,461.94 27,810.8927,000.86 333,730.59324,010.28
1230
CITY CLERK
STEP 1
96.7193.89
7,736.457,511.11
16,762.3016,274.08 201,147.63195,288.96
STEP 2
101.5498.58
8,123.277,886.67
17,600.4217,087.78 211,205.01205,053.41
STEP 3 106.62103.51
8,529.438,281.00
18,480.4417,942.17 221,765.27215,306.08
1210
CITY
LIBRARIAN
STEP 1 109.08105.90
8,726.338,472.17
18,907.0518,356.36 226,884.61220,276.32
STEP 2 114.53111.20
9,162.658,895.77
19,852.4019,274.18 238,228.84231,290.14
STEP 3 120.26116.76
9,620.789,340.56
20,845.0220,237.89 250,140.29242,854.65
1160
DIR COMM 
DEVELOPMENT
STEP 1 109.20106.02
8,735.728,481.29
18,927.4018,376.12 227,128.85220,513.44
STEP 2 114.66111.32
9,172.518,905.35
19,873.7719,294.93 238,485.29231,539.12
STEP 3 120.39116.88
9,631.149,350.62
20,867.4620,259.67 250,409.55243,116.07
583 of 585

--- page 584 ---
JOB
CODE TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
1270
DIR INFO
TECHNOLOGY
STEP 1
112.65106.38 9,012.198,510.09 19,526.4118,438.53 234,316.90221,262.42
STEP 2
118.28111.69 9,462.808,935.60 20,502.7319,360.46 246,032.75232,325.54
STEP 3
124.20117.28 9,935.949,382.38 21,527.8720,328.48 258,334.39243,941.82
1250
DIR PARKS &
RECREATION
STEP 1
109.20106.02 8,735.728,481.29 18,927.4018,376.12 227,128.85220,513.44
STEP 2
114.66111.32 9,172.518,905.35 19,873.7719,294.93 238,485.29231,539.12
STEP 3
120.39116.88 9,631.149,350.62 20,867.4620,259.67 250,409.55243,116.07
1120
DIR PUBLIC
WORKS
STEP 1
115.30111.94 9,224.238,955.56 19,985.8219,403.71 239,829.86232,844.52
STEP 2
121.07117.54 9,685.449,403.34 20,985.1120,373.89 251,821.35244,486.75
STEP 3
127.12123.42 10,169.719,873.50 22,034.3721,392.59 264,412.42256,711.09
1220
FINANCE
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
115.04111.69 9,203.318,935.25 19,940.5019,359.71 239,286.02232,316.52
STEP 2
120.79117.28 9,663.479,382.01 20,937.5320,327.70 251,250.32243,932.35
STEP 3
126.83123.14 10,146.659,851.11 21,984.4021,344.08 263,812.84256,128.97
DIR HUMAN
1180
RESOURCES
STEP 1
110.10106.89 8,807.958,551.41 19,083.8818,528.04 229,006.60222,336.50
STEP 2
115.61112.24 9,248.348,978.97 20,038.0619,454.43 240,456.81233,453.21
STEP 3
121.39117.85 9,710.769,427.92 21,039.9720,427.16 252,479.77245,125.99
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
Deputy Directors
The Department Head, with City Manager concurrence, has the authority to fix compensation for his/her 
respective Deputy Director(s) in the same manner the City Manager establishes salary for department heads. A 
deputy director who disagrees with his/her placement within the range may discuss it with the City Manager.
Effective March 5, 2023November 24, 2024, the deputy directors of city departments shall receive monthly 
salaries for their respective positions at a step within the monthly ranges indicated below.
JOB
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
DEPUTY
CITY
STEP 1
82.5280.11
6,601.356,409.08
14,302.9213,886.33 171,635.04166,635.96
2237
LIBRARIAN
STEP 2
86.6484.12
6,931.426,729.53
15,018.0714,580.65 180,216.79174,967.76
STEP 3
90.9788.33
7,277.997,066.01
15,768.9715,309.68 189,227.63183,716.15
DEPUTY
CDD
STEP 1
94.9592.19
7,596.287,375.03
16,458.6115,979.23 197,503.29191,750.76
2135
DIRECTOR
STEP 2
99.7096.80
7,976.097,743.78
17,281.5416,778.19 207,378.45201,338.30
STEP 3
104.69101.64 8,374.908,130.97
18,145.6117,617.10 217,747.37211,405.22
584 of 585

--- page 585 ---
JOB
CODE
TITLE
STEPS
HOURLY
BI-WEEKLY
MONTHLY
ANNUAL
2271
DEPUTY 
DIRECTOR 
PARKS &
REC
STEP 1
STEP 2
STEP 3
90.9488.29
95.4992.71
100.2797.34
7,275.477,063.56
7,639.257,416.74
8,021.217,787.58
15,763.5215,304.39
16,551.7016,069.61
17,379.2816,873.09
189,162.26183,652.68
198,620.38192,835.32
208,551.40202,477.08
DEP DIR
PUBLIC
STEP 1
93.6790.94
7,493.837,275.56
16,236.6315,763.72 194,839.58189,164.64
2117
WORKS
STEP 2
98.3695.49
7,868.527,639.34
17,048.4616,551.91 204,581.56198,622.88
STEP 3
103.27100.27 8,261.958,021.31
17,900.8917,379.50 214,810.64208,554.02
DEPUTY
POLICE
STEP 1
117.82114.39 9,425.599,151.06
20,422.1219,827.30 245,065.43237,927.60
2545
CHIEF
STEP 2
123.71120.11 9,896.879,608.61
21,443.2220,818.67 257,318.70249,823.98
STEP 3
129.90126.11 10,391.7210,089.05 22,515.3921,859.60 270,184.64262,315.18
DEPUTY
DIRECTOR
STEP 1
93.8792.03
7,509.907,362.65
16,271.4515,952.40 195,257.42191,428.84
2029
OF FINANCE
STEP 2
98.5796.63
7,885.407,730.78
17,085.0216,750.02 205,020.29201,000.28
STEP 3
103.50101.47 8,279.678,117.32
17,939.2717,587.52 215,271.30211,050.30
Salary is based on a 40-hour work week.
585 of 585