Los Altos Hills to remove ALPR cameras | News | losaltosonline.com Skip to main content × Thank you for reading! Subscribers keep our independent community news in business. If you already have a subscription, log in or register for an account on our website to continue reading. Click here if you’re having trouble accessing your subscriber account. Sign Up Log In Your current subscription does not provide access to this content. All-Inclusive Print + Digital Your weekly print newspaper delivered, and more √ Weekly Print Edition delivered to your mailbox √ Unlimited access on all devices √ E-Edition and Newsletters Starting at $10.00 for 30 days Get Started View all rates Rate Price Duration Town Crier Supporter - Monthly $10.00 for 30 days Town Crier Supporter - Annual $120.00 for 365 days 2026 Annual Subscription $70.00 for 365 days 2026 Senior (65+) Annual Subscription $60.00 for 365 days 2026 Outside Santa Clara County Annual Subscriptio $80.00 for 365 days 2026 Monthly Subscription $6.00 for 30 days 2026 Senior (65+) Monthly Subscription $5.00 for 30 days 2026 Outside Santa Clara County Monthly Subscripti $7.00 for 30 days Digital Only Access When you don't want the printed newspaper √ Unlimited access on all devices √ E-Edition and Newsletters √ No paper copy – less to recycle Starting at $60.00 for 365 days Get Started View all rates Rate Price Duration Annual Subscription $60.00 for 365 days Town Crier Membership - Monthly $6.50 for 30 days Town Crier Membership - Annual $75.00 for 365 days Town Crier Supporter - Monthly $10.00 for 30 days Town Crier Supporter - Annual $120.00 for 365 days Print Subscriber Access Activate your all-inclusive access for print subscribers: Link your losaltosonline.com account to your print subscription here. Your account number is your one-line street address as printed on your newspaper – use normal capitalization. Example: 138 Main St. When your current subscription expires later this year, you will be able to renew at losaltosonline.com/users/admin/service/purchase . If you have any trouble accessing your account or linking your subscription, our Subscription FAQ may have the answer you need. Contact howardb@latc.com or call him at ( 650) 397-5213 with any questions or to learn more. Free Get Started Have a promo code? Find Offers × Have a promo code? Find Offers Back You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Site search Search About Contact Us Submit an Idea/Intern Your Account Our Team News Schools Business & Real Estate Sports Community Comment Letters to the Editor Editorials Other Voices Special Sections Magazine Food & Wine Health Home and Garden On the Road Senior Lifestyles Spiritual Life Celebrations Obituaries Digital Edition Advertise Subscribe Subscribe Your Account Newsstand Locations Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Sunday, May 10, 2026 Facebook Twitter Instagram Menu Search 54° Los Altos, CA (94022) Today Morning clouds will give way to afternoon sunshine. High 73F. Winds NW at 10 to 15 mph.. Tonight A few clouds. Low 51F. Winds W at 5 to 10 mph. Updated: May 10, 2026 @ 5:55 am Full Forecast Site search Search About Contact Us Submit an Idea/Intern Your Account Our Team News Schools Business & Real Estate Sports Community Comment Letters to the Editor Editorials Other Voices Special Sections Magazine Food & Wine Health Home and Garden On the Road Senior Lifestyles Spiritual Life Celebrations Obituaries Digital Edition Advertise Subscribe Subscribe Your Account Newsstand Locations Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Los Altos Hills to remove ALPR cameras By Curtis Driscoll Staff Writer/curtisd@latc.com By Curtis Driscoll Author email Jan 27, 2026 Jan 27, 2026 Updated Jan 28, 2026 2 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Los Altos Hills will not renew its automated license plate reader contract with Flock after it expires in June. It currently has 31 cameras, as seen in the map above. Screenshot from Los Altos Hills Jan. 15 council meeting Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Los Altos Hills has decided to remove its Flock Safety automated license plate reader cameras around town, citing concerns about data privacy, cost considerations and overall effectiveness. The City Council at its Jan. 15 meeting voted to direct city staff to begin the process of ending its contract with Flock Safety immediately for its 31 cameras around town. The council removed the cameras due to concerns about Flock’s data privacy practices. These concerns related to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) having indirect access to automated license plate reader cameras (ALPR) data through Flock network searches conducted by state and local police agencies, despite there being no direct contract between ICE and Flock, according to a city staff report. Flock maintains that local agencies have control over data and access. Los Altos Hills joins a growing movement of cities removing Flock cameras. The city of Santa Cruz is one of several cities, including Austin, Eugene and Denver, to pause or reevaluate Flock usage recently. Los Altos Hills’ contract with Flock began in 2021, and the current contract runs through June 30. Los Altos Hills Mayor Rajiv Bhateja noted he pushed to get ALPR cameras into town to address skyrocketing burglaries at the time, but after several years of the ALPR program, he felt there were many limitations. Bhateja said he didn’t think the burglary rates had gone down because of Flock, instead giving more credit to private security. He also noted there were plenty of ways to get around Flock cameras, like freshly stolen or missing license plates, and felt money spent on Flock could go to other aspects of public safety. He also remained worried that data would not be protected, given the current political climate. “I would come down to the side of acknowledging that we tried this experiment, and it didn’t work out the way we hoped,” Bhateja said. “I would rather take that money and deploy it to private security.” The rest of the council agreed, with Councilmember Linda Swan voting to opt out of the contract over privacy concerns about information sharing. Councilmember Kavita Tankha felt the Flock cameras didn’t prevent any crime, noting that people committing burglary were using stolen cars and license plates, which made it harder to trace, even with video surveillance. She believes private security was the biggest difference in bringing down burglary rates in the last two years. Burglaries have gone from 60 in 2023 to 20 in 2024 and 16 in 2025, according to city staff. “I think what’s happening is we are spending far too many dollars on the ALPR system combined with the amount we are paying the sheriff to monitor them, and I think those tax dollars could be used towards the additional officers that we need or having private security,” Tankha said. Costs for the public safety contract with the Santa Clara County Sheriff’s Office are expected to rise in the coming years, a financial consideration to balance for public safety spending. The current cost for the ALPR cameras is $93,000 a year. The council also directed staff to explore the possibility of being refunded a portion of the contract by Flock. Under the terms, Los Altos Hills pays the annual subscription up front. Cameras are expected to stop operating this month, with Flock working to remove the cameras and poles throughout town. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save × 3 remaining of 4 Subscribers support the Los Altos Town Crier – please log in or subscribe to continue reading. By Curtis Driscoll Author email Follow Curtis Driscoll × Post a comment as Guest Emoticons Comment Text Cancel Post comment × Report Cancel Report Abuse × Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Watch this discussion Get an email notification whenever someone contributes to the discussion Notifications from this discussion will be disabled. Cancel Start watching Stop watching (2) comments lutkin Jan 30, 2026 2:36pm and do they really know there has been no unauthorized access by other agencies? Seems Mountain View just revealed some? "Despite repeated assurances of strict protocols and privacy safeguards, the Mountain View Police Department disclosed this week that it had inadvertently violated its own policies and allowed hundreds of unauthorized law enforcement agencies to search information captured by the city’s license plate cameras for more than a year." https://www.mv-voice.com/police/2026/01/30/amid-immigration-crackdown-mountain-view-discovers-unauthorized-access-to-license-plate-data/ Report Add Reply Tomás Jan 28, 2026 10:30pm 1. Are we using the unsubstantiated (to my knowledge) assertion of Flock sharing data with ICE as a shield for the underlying issue: this has been a very expensive failure…$1m+ over four years. - if these Flock cameras were highly successful in reducing burglaries, would we still give them up? I suspect not. 2. The sheriff’s expenditures seem absolutely over the top. Have we audited their claimed work and expenses? 3. The holes in the Flock were apparent day one with careful analysis. But we seem to have just now discovered what we could have identified four years ago. 4. Our assertion that “private security is more effective” has all the same thinking as our initial expectations of the Flock system. Where’s the evidence? Report Add Reply Welcome to the discussion. Log In Keep it Courteous. Be respectful, truthful, and use no threatening or hateful language. Be Proactive. Use the 'Report' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts. Share with Us. We'd love to hear eyewitness accounts and the history behind a news event. Read our full comments policy: losaltosonline.com/comments Post a comment Watch this discussion. Stop watching this discussion. Trending Stories From WhatsApp to an LLC: It’s all about safety in a Los Altos Hills neighborhood Updated encampment ordinances get Los Altos go-ahead Los Altos student murals brighten animal rescue, boost awareness In tight vote, Mountain View approves 140-unit "Castro Commons" development at Gateway Plaza Los Altos salon shuts down Follow us on Facebook LosAltosTownCrier Local Events Sections News Schools Business Sports Community Special Sections Comment People Spiritual Life Services Subscription Services Submission Forms Place an Obituary Promote Your Event Email Alerts Search Weather Contact Information LosAltosOnline.com 138 Main Street Los Altos, CA 94022 Phone: 650-948-9000 Email: info@latc.com Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Los Altos Town Crier 138 Main Street, Los Altos, CA | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .