--- page 1 ---
https://www.losaltosonline.com/news/los-altos-hills-to-remove-alpr-cameras/article_59f90aa8-14c1-
4309-9f7f-12d16c649d9e.html
Los Altos Hills to remove ALPR cameras
By Curtis Driscoll Staff Writer/curtisd@latc.com
Jan 27, 2026

--- page 2 ---
Los Altos Hills will not renew its automated license plate reader contract with Flock after it expires in June.
It currently has 31 cameras, as seen in the map above.
Screenshot from Los Altos Hills Jan. 15 council meeting
Los Altos Hills has decided to remove its Flock Safety automated license plate reader
cameras around town, citing concerns about data privacy, cost considerations and
overall effectiveness.
The City Council at its Jan. 15 meeting voted to direct city staff to begin the process of
ending its contract with Flock Safety immediately for its 31 cameras around town.
The council removed the cameras due to concerns about Flock’s data privacy
practices. These concerns related to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
having indirect access to automated license plate reader cameras (ALPR) data
through Flock network searches conducted by state and local police agencies, despite
there being no direct contract between ICE and Flock, according to a city staff report.
Flock maintains that local agencies have control over data and access. Los Altos Hills
joins a growing movement of cities removing Flock cameras. The city of Santa Cruz is
one of several cities, including Austin, Eugene and Denver, to pause or reevaluate
Flock usage recently. Los Altos Hills’ contract with Flock began in 2021, and the current
contract runs through June 30.
Los Altos Hills Mayor Rajiv Bhateja noted he pushed to get ALPR cameras into town to
address skyrocketing burglaries at the time, but after several years of the ALPR
program, he felt there were many limitations. Bhateja said he didn’t think the burglary
rates had gone down because of Flock, instead giving more credit to private security.
He also noted there were plenty of ways to get around Flock cameras, like freshly
stolen or missing license plates, and felt money spent on Flock could go to other
aspects of public safety. He also remained worried that data would not be protected,
given the current political climate.
“I would come down to the side of acknowledging that we tried this experiment, and
it didn’t work out the way we hoped,” Bhateja said. “I would rather take that money
and deploy it to private security.”

--- page 3 ---
By Curtis Driscoll
The rest of the council agreed, with Councilmember Linda Swan voting to opt out of
the contract over privacy concerns about information sharing. Councilmember Kavita
Tankha felt the Flock cameras didn’t prevent any crime, noting that people
committing burglary were using stolen cars and license plates, which made it harder
to trace, even with video surveillance. She believes private security was the biggest
difference in bringing down burglary rates in the last two years. Burglaries have gone
from 60 in 2023 to 20 in 2024 and 16 in 2025, according to city staff.
“I think what’s happening is we are spending far too many dollars on the ALPR system
combined with the amount we are paying the sheriff to monitor them, and I think
those tax dollars could be used towards the additional officers that we need or having
private security,” Tankha said.
Costs for the public safety contract with the Santa Clara County Sheriff’s Office are
expected to rise in the coming years, a financial consideration to balance for public
safety spending. The current cost for the ALPR cameras is $93,000 a year. The council
also directed staff to explore the possibility of being refunded a portion of the contract
by Flock. Under the terms, Los Altos Hills pays the annual subscription up front.
Cameras are expected to stop operating this month, with Flock working to remove the
cameras and poles throughout town.