404 @ 3 Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Newsletters 404 @ 3 Jason Koebler · Oct 6, 2026 at 10:08 AM And 404's Flock coverage cited in proposed legislation. This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this 'Undue emotional weight' AI-generated political slop, a farewell to a good bird, and more. Samantha Cole · Oct 7, 2026 Muse escapes containment “Indiscriminate mass surveillance," a Meta Muse scoop, and more in today's daily newsletter. Samantha Cole · Oct 5, 2026 'Everything but censorship' A look at the state of student journalism in light of the Cornell sexual assault case, and much more. Samantha Cole · Oct 1, 2026 'Undue emotional weight' AI-generated political slop, a farewell to a good bird, and more. Samantha Cole · Oct 7, 2026 Her AI-Generated Video Swayed the Judge. The Court Said it Carried 'Undue Emotional Weight' "Chris’ sentiment does not change," said the sister who created an AI avatar of her slain brother Christopher Pelkey to speak in court. Matthew Gault · Oct 6, 2026 Lawmakers Introduce Multiple Laws to Curb Flock After 404 Media Coverage Senator Bernie Sanders, Representative Ocasio-Cortez, and Senator Jeff Merkley introduced the Ban Flock Act on Friday, which would stop federal agencies from using automatic license plate readers. Joseph Cox · Oct 6, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .