Cops Keep Getting Arrested for Using Flock to Stalk People Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Advertisement • Go ad free Flock Cops Keep Getting Arrested for Using Flock to Stalk People Jason Koebler · Jun 10, 2026 at 9:22 AM There have been more than a dozen cases around the country where police use Flock to obsessively and illegally stalk people. Image: Flock For months during the summer of 2024, Jarmarus Brown, an Orange City, Florida police officer, ran his ex-girlfriend's license plate through the Flock automated license plate reader (ALPR) system lookup database at least 69 times. He searched for the license plate belonging to her mom at least 24 times, and searched for the license plate belonging to her dad at least 15 times. Brown’s searches were happening so often, and were so commonplace, that even one of his colleagues noticed Brown researching his ex-girlfriend's whereabouts while the law enforcement officers sat in their police cruisers, according to court records obtained by 404 Media. “While they were sitting there, Officer [Shadrich] King noticed Jarmarus was on the Flock system and a license plate reader image of [Brown’s ex-girlfriend] was on the screen,” a police affidavit about Brown’s behavior obtained by 404 Media reads. “Officer King said he mentioned to Jarmarus that he needed to stop running her vehicle in that system because he could get in trouble. Jarmarus responded saying that he knew that, and he was going to stop.” Flock’s automated license plate readers document every car that drives past them, creating a broad network of people’s movements around the country. Police can then look up license plates to learn where a specific car and, by extension, person, has traveled over time. This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this Flock Leaked Cops’ License Plate Searches via DuckDuckGo, Bing Flock, the automatic license plate reader (ALPR) company, exposed some of the license plate cops were looking for and the reason for doing so. Joseph Cox · Jun 11, 2026 Cities Are Covering Flock Cameras With Trash Bags Regretful cities aren't sure how to cancel their surveillance contracts, so they are literally covering their cameras. Jason Koebler · May 28, 2026 After Town Bans Flock, Councilmember Crashes Out, Proposes Internet and Phone Ban A Texas councilmember will propose “a total ban on all cellular and GPS-capable devices for all operations within city limits" and"a total termination of all internet services." Jason Koebler · May 20, 2026 Amazon Data Centers In Mississippi Have Already Raised Electricity Rates for Local Customers, Report Suggests Three Amazon data centers aren't even open yet, but local residents are already paying at least $10.60 extra per month for them, according to a new study. Roshan Abraham · Jun 11, 2026 Flock Leaked Cops’ License Plate Searches via DuckDuckGo, Bing Flock, the automatic license plate reader (ALPR) company, exposed some of the license plate cops were looking for and the reason for doing so. Joseph Cox · Jun 11, 2026 Chatbots Keep Telling Stories About Lighthouse Keeper 'Elias Thorne'. We Might Know Why LLMs including ChatGPT, Gemini and Claude are obsessed with telling stories about lighthouse keepers and clockmakers, and one character named 'Elias Thorne' has made his way from chatbots to Amazon books. Researchers are trying to discover why. Samantha Cole · Jun 11, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Thanks Privacy Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .