How Cops Use Flock to Track People, Not Cars Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Flock How Cops Use Flock to Track People, Not Cars Joseph Cox · Jul 16, 2026 at 9:56 AM Cops have used Flock's FreeForm search feature to look for people with tattoos and wearing specific sport shirts, and searches sometimes include the target's race, according to data reviewed by 404 Media. Images: Flock and screenshots from HaveIBeenFlocked.com . Police departments around the country have used Flock cameras at least hundreds of times to search for specific people, not cars, using searches such as “heavy-set male with a black and white hat,” “person on skateboard,” and “person wearing orange vest and construction hat,” according to data reviewed by 404 Media. Sometimes searches reference a target’s race or signs of their political affiliation. The searches highlight that while most people associate Flock cameras with scanning license plates and tracking vehicles, some of the cameras are also capable of following the movements of particular people or groups of people. Flock’s nationwide network of cameras lets police officers in one state search for a vehicle across many other states at once; the people searches do a similar thing, typically on a smaller scale, sometimes querying many hundreds of cameras at once. These are called “FreeForm” searches, and allow cops to use Flock’s system as though they would use a search engine, with Flock’s AI and image recognition interpreting what footage and which people are relevant to a police officer’s search. This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this LAPD Regularly Pulled Over Innocent People Because License Plate Readers Flagged Their Cars As Stolen The Los Angeles Police Department let its Flock contract expire over the weekend in part because it was regularly "investigating" and surveilling innocent people. Jason Koebler · Jul 13, 2026 ‘You Will Not Speak on Flock Tonight’: County Commissioner Refuses to Let Residents Opposing Flock Speak at Meeting "I’ve spoken. I’m not debating this." Jason Koebler · Jun 12, 2026 Flock Leaked Cops’ License Plate Searches via DuckDuckGo, Bing Flock, the automatic license plate reader (ALPR) company, exposed some of the license plate cops were looking for and the reason for doing so. Joseph Cox · Jun 11, 2026 Ancient Princesses Were Weapon-Wielding Badasses, Scientists Discover The mummified remains of 4,000-year-old Egyptian royals suggest that they were buried with weapons because they could use them, not for symbolic reasons. Becky Ferreira · Jul 18, 2026 You're Invited: 404 Media's Third Anniversary Live Podcast and Party! We're celebrating with TWO NIGHTS of good times: A live taping of the podcast, and a party the following night! Paid 404 Media subscribers get free and discounted access. Details below. Samantha Cole · Jul 17, 2026 Behind the Blog: Infinite Bowl Machine This week, we discuss AI music, slop bowls, and the endless quest for optimization. Samantha Cole , Jason Koebler , Emanuel Maiberg , Joseph Cox · Jul 17, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .