Lawmakers Introduce Multiple Laws to Curb Flock After 404 Media Coverage Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Impact Lawmakers Introduce Multiple Laws to Curb Flock After 404 Media Coverage Joseph Cox · Oct 6, 2026 at 9:24 AM Senator Bernie Sanders, Representative Ocasio-Cortez, and Senator Jeff Merkley introduced the Ban Flock Act on Friday, which would stop federal agencies from using automatic license plate readers. IMAGE: SPUMONI COOPERATIVE FOR 404 MEDIA. Multiple Democrat, Republican, and Independent lawmakers have introduced new pieces of legislation that, if passed, would dramatically curb federal agencies’ access to Flock cameras, with the lawmakers referencing reporting by 404 Media in their explanations for why the legislation is needed. On Friday Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) announced the Ban Flock Act , which would prohibit federal agencies from using automatic license plate readers (ALPRs) and block federal funding from state and local governments that use the cameras. It would also let Americans sue the federal government for violation of their rights through ALPRs. “At a time of growing concern about the unchecked power of artificial intelligence, Flock is eviscerating the very notion of privacy by installing tens of thousands of cameras in communities across America without their consent,” Sanders said in the announcement posted to his website. “Going to the doctor? Flock knows. Dropping your kid off at school? Flock is tracking you. Flock is always watching. We cannot allow America to become a surveillance state where a handful of AI oligarchs profit by giving the government the power to track our every movement.” 💡 Do you know anything else about Flock? I would love to hear from you. Using a non-work device, you can message me securely on Signal at joseph.404 or send me an email at joseph@404media.co. Ocasio-Cortez said, “AI-powered cameras are keeping track of our every move and weaponizing this data against working people to make record profits. The widespread integration of this technology into American society is unconscionable.” Merkley added, “No one should have this unchecked surveillance power at their fingertips, which is why I’m teaming up with Senator Sanders to rein in this dangerous technology.” Sanders’ announcement says that one reason for the legislation is Flock has shared state information with federal immigration officials. In May 2025, 404 Media revealed local cops were doing lookups in Flock for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). After that report, Flock made dramatic changes to its product , including stopping other agencies searching cameras in Illinois, California, and Virginia. Flock said it also introduced a new tool that blocks impermissible searches in real time. The announcement also said law enforcement have used Flock data to investigate protests against ICE raids and ‘No Kings’ demonstrations. 404 Media revealed both of these, reporting that California cops investigated an “immigration protest” using Flock lookups, and, using data from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, that cops used Flock to monitor No Kings protests around the country. 404 Media also recently reported Flock itself taught cops how to surveil No Kings protesters in a company webinar. Hajar Hammado, senior policy advisor at activist and progressive policy group Demand Progress, said in a press release “The Ban Flock Act is the gold standard for any legislation working to fight invasive Flock cameras on the federal level. Flock and other ALPR companies have wormed their way into communities across the nation and drastic, all-encompassing action is needed to root them out.” Senator Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) announced his own piece of proposed legislation late last month. The Stop Flock Abuse Act would require a written approval process for each search; force agencies to delete driver data after ten days, with exceptions for active investigations; and ban ALPR networks from incorporating facial recognition technology. During a recent senate hearing, Hawley pointed to 404 Media’s reporting specifically . Separately, Representatives Greg Casar and Shontel Brown recently wrote to FBI Director Kash Patel asking how the agency plans to acquire nationwide access to ALPR data, Semafor reported . 404 Media first revealed this plan in May. The letter also referenced 404 Media’s reporting which revealed a cop in Texas used Flock to search ALPRs nationwide for a woman who self-administered an abortion. About the author Joseph is an award-winning investigative journalist focused on generating impact. His work has triggered hundreds of millions of dollars worth of fines, shut down tech companies, and much more. More from Joseph Cox More like this Company Offering Printed Books to Train AI Stops After 404 Media Coverage Citing backlash, ISBNdb removed its webpages about training AI, denied ever buying, scanning, or selling a book for AI training, and said the site was a "test of market interest." Samantha Cole · Jul 31, 2026 Apple Fixes Hide My Email Vulnerability After 404 Media Coverage For a year, Apple knew that an issue in its Hide My Email feature was exposing customers’ real email addresses. Apple only fixed the issue after 404 Media covered it. Joseph Cox · Jul 21, 2026 Immigrant Rights Lawyers File Lawsuit Over Palantir’s ELITE Just Futures Law is seeking a wealth of documents related to the tech Palantir provides to ICE. Joseph Cox · Jun 4, 2026 ‘Jonathan’ Is the Oldest Land Animal on Earth. He Could Hold the Secrets to Defying Death Jonathan, a 194-year-old Aldabra giant tortoise, was born before the Civil War. Scientists have now sequenced his genome to reveal what’s behind his extreme longevity, so we can live longer too. Becky Ferreira · Oct 7, 2026 'Undue emotional weight' AI-generated political slop, a farewell to a good bird, and more. Samantha Cole · Oct 7, 2026 Her AI-Generated Video Swayed the Judge. The Court Said it Carried 'Undue Emotional Weight' "Chris’ sentiment does not change," said the sister who created an AI avatar of her slain brother Christopher Pelkey to speak in court. Matthew Gault · Oct 6, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .