Podcast: The FBI Was Hacked. We’ve Seen the Data Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Podcast Podcast: The FBI Was Hacked. We’ve Seen the Data Joseph Cox · Oct 2, 2026 at 1:37 PM The massive FBI hack; a company wants to add facial recognition onto Flock; and Muse in some cases is actually just people. Image: 404 Media. We start this week with Joseph’s stories on the massive FBI hack. 404 Media broke this news and continued to cover the breach of data on all FBI employees and their spouses. After the break, Jason tells us how a surveillance company is telling cops it wants to add facial recognition tech to Flock camera data. In the subscribers-only section, Jason and Joseph chat all about Muse, Meta’s new agentic AI, and how humans are actually behind some of the tasks. Because of course. Listen to the weekly podcast on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or YouTube . Become a paid subscriber for access to this episode's bonus content and to power our journalism. If you become a paid subscriber, check your inbox for an email from our podcast host Transistor for a link to the subscribers-only version! You can also add that subscribers feed to your podcast app of choice and never miss an episode that way. The email should also contain the subscribers-only unlisted YouTube link for the extended video version too. It will also be in the show notes in your podcast player. ⁠‘We Hacked the FBI:’ Hackers Say They Have Data on All FBI Employees⁠ ⁠FBI Hack Exposed FBI’s Own Hacking Unit⁠ ⁠FBI Hackers Say They Won’t Publish Massive Trove of FBI Employee Data⁠ ⁠Surveillance Company Tells Cops It Wants to Add Facial Recognition to Flock Cameras⁠ About the author Joseph is an award-winning investigative journalist focused on generating impact. His work has triggered hundreds of millions of dollars worth of fines, shut down tech companies, and much more. More from Joseph Cox More like this The End of Privacy Is Here (with Kashmir Hill) Facial recognition is everywhere now. Soon it's going to be right in your face, too. Joseph Cox · Sep 28, 2026 Podcast: OpenAI Admits AI is Killing the Internet Microsoft and OpenAI admit it; how we got AI slop onto a real band's Spotify page; and AI agent spam is here. Joseph Cox · Sep 25, 2026 Podcast: Humans Are Reading Your ChatGPT Conversations The contractors reading real ChatGPT users' prompts; the big out-and-back-in around Automattic; and a16z thinks enshittification isn't real. Joseph Cox · Sep 16, 2026 Our Solar System Is Terminally Unstable and Will Be Completely Destroyed, Study Finds The estimated lifespan of the outer solar system has been downgraded from 100 billion years to just a few billion years, according to a study that probed “terminal instability” during the Sun’s death. Becky Ferreira · Oct 3, 2026 Federal Judge Rules a Flock Search Was ‘Indiscriminate Mass Surveillance’ and Unconstitutional Flock’s nationwide network is quickly “approaching dragnet-type law enforcement practice” and the cop should have got a warrant, the judge wrote. Jason Koebler · Oct 2, 2026 Behind the Blog: Freaking Out This week, we discuss inbox slop, Claude cults, and more. Samantha Cole , Joseph Cox , Jason Koebler · Oct 2, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .