Podcast: The Government Wants to End Anonymity on Phones Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Podcast Podcast: The Government Wants to End Anonymity on Phones Joseph Cox · Jun 17, 2026 at 9:16 AM The FCC's proposed changes to getting a phone plan; cops keep stalking with Flock; and a software update changes the AC in Amazon vans. We start this week with Joseph’s story about the FCC’s wild proposal to require peoples’ government ID numbers to even get a phone plan. The FCC is doing it to curb robocalls, but also said it would be useful for a bunch of other stuff. After the break, Jason tells us all about cops abusing Flock to stalk girlfriends and other people. In the subscribers’ only section, Emanuel explains how a software update is impacting Amazon drivers. Listen to the weekly podcast on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or YouTube . Become a paid subscriber for access to this episode's bonus content and to power our journalism. If you become a paid subscriber, check your inbox for an email from our podcast host Transistor for a link to the subscribers-only version! You can also add that subscribers feed to your podcast app of choice and never miss an episode that way. The email should also contain the subscribers-only unlisted YouTube link for the extended video version too. It will also be in the show notes in your podcast player. ⁠FCC Wants to Kill Burner Phones By Forcing Telecoms to Get All Customers’ IDs⁠ ⁠Cops Keep Getting Arrested for Using Flock to Stalk People⁠ ⁠Software Update Automatically Turns off Amazon Delivery Drivers’ AC During Dangerous Summer Heat⁠ About the author Joseph is an award-winning investigative journalist focused on generating impact. His work has triggered hundreds of millions of dollars worth of fines, shut down tech companies, and much more. More from Joseph Cox More like this The OPSEC Rave Wave (with Imani Thompson) We get into how platforms have tried to make surveillance cute, why that damn Duolingo owl emotionally manipulates you, and why learning about privacy best practices when surrounded by community works. Samantha Cole · Jun 15, 2026 Podcast: Google Employees Meme About How Bad Their AI Is Memes at Google; Microsoft wants to make its new AI assistant addictive; and manipulating Reddit. Joseph Cox · Jun 10, 2026 It’s So Not Over for Hollywood (with Devindra Hardawar) Emanuel talks to Devindra Hardawar about AI in Hollywood and the state of the movie industry. Emanuel Maiberg · Jun 8, 2026 ICE Appears to Be Buying Immigrants’ Tax Identifiers from a Data Broker A $10 million procurement reviewed by 404 Media indicates ICE is buying records related to immigrants’ tax identifiers. “It looks for all the world like Trump is trying to skirt the law and a court order to fuel his mass-deportation campaign,” Senator Ron Wyden said. Joseph Cox · Jun 17, 2026 Hackers Publish Knicks and Madison Square Garden Data Online The data contains a list of "talent," including former Knicks players and coaches, and whether other celebrities are considered "Low Risk" or "High Risk." The data also contains emails between customers and MSG. Joseph Cox · Jun 16, 2026 Hackers Are Hijacking Entire Roblox Games Now Whereas Roblox hackers were previously focused on stealing players' high value items, some have taken over entire Roblox games, stealing their ownership and Robux in the process. Joseph Cox · Jun 16, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .