Surveillance Finds a Way Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Newsletters Surveillance Finds a Way Jason Koebler · Sep 29, 2026 at 10:05 AM CEO who wants to add facial recognition to Flock cameras says it's "the way the world will have to be." Photo by Tasha Kostyuk on Unsplash A thing I’ve been saying over and over is that surveillance companies can’t be trusted to regulate themselves or to make privacy decisions themselves, because one company’s red line is another company’s business opportunity. Today we’re investigating a company that saw Flock was not offering facial recognition and saw a challenge. Also: Some dudes are letting ChatGPT drive a car in a parking lot in San Francisco, a data center company promises to cut people big checks if their data center gets approved, and the Muse backlash has begun. Welcome back to our new experiment with daily newsletters. If you like this, subscribe here . -Jason Surveillance Company Wants to Add Facial Recognition to Flock Cameras As Flock continues to be the center of a nationwide conversation about automatic license plate reading cameras, the company has said that it doesn’t, and won’t, do facial recognition : “We will not add facial recognition to our devices,” Flock CEO Garrett Langley said in a recent video . But other, third-party companies are telling cops that they are willing to add facial recognition to data gathered by Flock cameras in order to “close that gap.” A company called VIDIZMO is advertising the capability to export footage from FlockOS to its own platforms that do facial recognition, behavior prediction, and racial and gender analysis on live camera feeds. VIDIZMO is a several decades-old video analysis and database company that has started offering facial recognition technology to cops within the last six months. In a May email to Johnson City, Tennessee, deputy police chief Michael Adams, a salesperson from VIDIZMO wrote that the company’s product could do facial recognition on both Flock and Axon data in “one searchable platform.” This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this How the Feds Get Your Data How local cops are forced to feed their license plate data to the feds, the two loudest birds on the planet, and a very strange video from the FBI. Joseph Cox · Sep 30, 2026 Someone ‘Torturing’ LLMs in a Robot Prison Has Triggered the Dumbest Debate in AI Yet The "AI Torture Chamber" has opened an upsetting and absurd window into the effective altruist obsession with "model welfare." Jason Koebler · Sep 30, 2026 Lawyer Cites ChatGPT-Invented Fake Witnesses in Murder Appeal "Do you watch the news? Do you listen to the radio? Do you read anything about what's going on in the world?” one of the judges asked the lawyer, who submitted false testimony and witnesses after using ChatGPT. Samantha Cole · Sep 30, 2026 USPS To Put Cameras in Trucks That Scan Roads for ‘Community Safety’ USPS says the cameras, put on USPS truck dashboards, will scan roads, signs, and more. Joseph Cox · Sep 30, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .