Watch an Unconstitutional Flock Search Account Log in Subscribe Navigation Home About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Follow us Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Sign in Subscribe About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Advertisement • Go ad free Newsletters Watch an Unconstitutional Flock Search Joseph Cox · Oct 8, 2026 at 11:36 AM We got the bodycam and in-car footage from the unconstitutional Flock search. Also now you can basically have sex with Claude Code? Image: 404 Media. This post is for paid members only Become a paid member for unlimited ad-free access to articles, bonus podcast content, and more. Subscribe Sign up for free access to this post Free members get access to posts like this one along with an email round-up of our week's stories. Subscribe Already have an account? Sign in More like this 'Undue emotional weight' AI-generated political slop, a farewell to a good bird, and more. Samantha Cole · Oct 7, 2026 404 @ 3 And 404's Flock coverage cited in proposed legislation. Jason Koebler · Oct 6, 2026 Muse escapes containment “Indiscriminate mass surveillance," a Meta Muse scoop, and more in today's daily newsletter. Samantha Cole · Oct 5, 2026 Following 404 Media Investigation, Senator Demands Info About White House's License Plate Surveillance Program Sen. Ron Wyden is seeking a privacy review report about the HIDTA license plate program. Jason Koebler · Oct 9, 2026 Behind the Blog: What Would the Pope Do? This week, we discuss AI and spirituality. Samantha Cole , Jason Koebler · Oct 9, 2026 'It Is Done. Hail Satan:' City Immediately Regrets New Religious Liberty Law That Allows Prayer at City Council Meeting Iowa city council debates proper time in meeting agenda to "undo the curse that was just put on our city." Matthew Gault · Oct 8, 2026 Advertisement • Go ad free Advertisement • Go ad free • Hide Unparalleled access to hidden worlds both online and IRL. 404 Media is an independent media company founded by technology journalists Jason Koebler, Emanuel Maiberg, Samantha Cole, and Joseph Cox. About RSS Support/FAQ Podcast FOIA Forum Archive Merch Advertise Privacy Contact Us/Tips Twitter Bluesky Mastodon Instagram TikTok Facebook RSS Join the newsletter to get the latest updates. Success Great! Check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription © 2026 404 Media. Published with Ghost .