‘Shocking violation:’ Lake County commissioners order takedown of secret surveillance cameras Skip to main content Open Main Menu Navigation Search all of ClickOrlando.com Clear icon 85 º Go to the WKMG homepage Join Insider Sign In Open the WKMG News 6 & ClickOrlando Help Desk News Watch Live Weather Getting Results. Traffic Features Sports Contact Us Newsletters Trending Gov. DeSantis signs 6 more Florida laws. Here’s the full lineup ‘Welcome to Rockville’ put on pause over severe weather in Daytona Beach Publix is selling rare plants for a limited time in these Florida cities Rapper Kodak Black booked into Orange County jail on drug trafficking charge Orlando, Florida Weather Radar | ClickOrlando | WKMG News 6 Publix is no longer America’s most trusted grocer. Here’s who took No. 1 Hidden cameras found in Winter Park coffee shop restroom Delta worker dies at Orlando International Airport, officials say Here’s what causes nearly every gator attack in Florida, experts warn Here is where the most mail was reported stolen in Central Florida Close Local News Brian Didlake , Reporter Published: August 12, 2021 at 6:17 PM Tags: Lake County , Traffic , Trending LATEST NEWS No description available 39 minutes ago ‘Welcome to Rockville’ put on pause over severe weather in Daytona Beach Read full article: ‘Welcome to Rockville’ put on pause over severe weather in Daytona Beach No description available Cyberattack affecting local Florida schools, universities Read full article: Cyberattack affecting local Florida schools, universities Report finds 981 intersection crashes from 2019-2024, including 465 at Hiawassee and Silver Star New Orange County study shows nearly 1,000 crashes at stretch of Hiawassee Road intersections Read full article: New Orange County study shows nearly 1,000 crashes at stretch of Hiawassee Road intersections News 6 obtained federal data broken down by ZIP code Here is where the most mail was reported stolen in Central Florida Read full article: Here is where the most mail was reported stolen in Central Florida Sign up for our events newsletter: Sign Up Local News ‘Shocking violation:’ Lake County commissioners order takedown of secret surveillance cameras Flock Safety installed about 100 cameras in new pilot program to fight crime Brian Didlake , Reporter Published: August 12, 2021 at 6:17 PM Tags: Lake County , Traffic , Trending TAVARES, Fla. – Surveillance cameras are being taken down across Lake County after commissioners say they didn’t know about them in the first place. According to the Lake County Sherriff’s Office, surveillance cameras were installed around the county in July under a new pilot program to help fight crime, but county commissioners said the cameras have to go. [TRENDING: Doctor in critical care for COVID | Hospitals run low on nurses | How, when to watch meteor shower ] “At this point, they need to remove them. Charge them for removing them,” said one commissioner during a county board meeting earlier this week. Lake County commissioners said they are sending a cease-and-desist letter to Flock Safety after the company installed surveillance cameras that monitor license plates and vehicle details. Around 100 cameras were installed across Lake County and are used to assist with Amber Alerts or vehicle thefts. “It’s shocking they even put them in places where they never would’ve been approved in the first place had they gotten the appropriate approval,” said Commissioner Josh Blacke, who brought up the topic in a board meeting after learning about the cameras on social media. After doing some research, he said he found out about the pilot program, which was approved by the Lake County Sheriff’s Office in July. Other commissioners said it was their first time hearing of the temporary pilot program. According to the sheriff’s office, the tech company was scheduled to install cameras in areas that didn’t require a permit, but commissioners said that’s not the case. “It is a violation of procedure and, quite frankly, the law for them to do this, and I think in the strongest possible terms have them get rid of these things in the next 24 hours,” Blacke said Flock Safety responded to the board decision in a statement: “Flock Safety contracted directly with the Lake County Sheriff’s Office, and we worked with their team to select locations. Cameras were installed a few weeks ago. Not all locations require permits, and there was an honest miscommunication about the need for permits at some of these sites. Since we learned of this mistake, we are starting to remove all the cameras immediately. We have installed 1000s of cameras around the country, including all over Florida, and our team moves very quickly. As I mentioned before, we want to help LCSO solve crime quickly, which has already proven effective during this pilot period. This technology has proven time and again to solve crime while mitigating biases. Since 70% of crime happens with a vehicle, we focus on license plates and vehicle details. We do not use facial recognition technology and do not sell data to third parties. One other note, by default, all footage is deleted every 30 days on a rolling basis. And no one can pull footage older than 30 days per our default settings. Agencies can download and save an individual license plate as evidence for longer than 30 days, per their evidence retention policies. The only caveat to our data retention policy is that if a democratically elected governing body or person has a written law or policy with a data retention limit beyond 30 days, we will adhere to that policy.” Blacke said that after this ordeal, he’ll be doing everything to ensure there will be no similar cameras in Lake County again. The Lake County Sheriff’s Office has since terminated the pilot program with Flock Safety and said if there is a change of heart from commissioners on the program, it is willing to revisit the topic, saying the tool can be a benefit to help the agency fight crime. The Lake County Sheriff’s Office also sent a statement responding to the board’s decision: “The company reached out to us last year regarding their product and eventually came to the sheriff’s office and provided a demonstration as to how it works. Representatives offered to install them at certain locations that would be considered valuable, based upon the volume of traffic, for a testing-and-evaluating period. The Company started installing cameras on July 12, 2021, under an approved temporary pilot program. The company representative stated the company would install the cameras at locations that do not require permitting. According to Lake County, the company installed cameras on County properties which do require permitting. Yesterday, Lake County declined Flock’s proposal to install cameras on County property where permits were required and voted to remove the cameras. While this technology is incredibly beneficial and helps our detectives solve crimes, the sheriff’s office terminated the pilot program with this company. We will, however, should Lake County approve, revisit the use of this technology given the benefits that such a system provides.” Copyright 2021 by WKMG ClickOrlando - All rights reserved. We're tracked down where the most mail was reported stolen in Central Florida. What you need to know ▶ 0:32 We're tracked down where the most mail was reported stolen in Central Florida. What you need to know Someone stole hot dogs, more from ESE program at Volusia County high school ▶ 0:51 Someone stole hot dogs, more from ESE program at Volusia County high school Sanford fundraiser to help Sloth World sloths to 'hang in there' ▶ 0:43 Sanford fundraiser to help Sloth World sloths to 'hang in there' Florida Sheriff ROASTS Suspects in Viral Undercover Sting ▶ 1:07 Florida Sheriff ROASTS Suspects in Viral Undercover Sting Kodak Black seen walking out of a Florida jail on Thursday night after drug arrest ▶ 0:43 Kodak Black seen walking out of a Florida jail on Thursday night after drug arrest Inside Orlando’s strangest property and its long-awaited future ▶ 1:23 Inside Orlando’s strangest property and its long-awaited future Florida requires heart screenings for student athletes ▶ 0:51 Florida requires heart screenings for student athletes Hottest weather in 100 days arrives in Central Florida. Here’s who could be breaking records ▶ 1:26 Hottest weather in 100 days arrives in Central Florida. Here’s who could be breaking records WOW! drops subcontractor, promises new oversight after repeated Longwood water main breaks ▶ 0:45 WOW! drops subcontractor, promises new oversight after repeated Longwood water main breaks Florida families caring for medically fragile children say system is failing them ▶ 0:48 Florida families caring for medically fragile children say system is failing them Gunman cased Disney, other targets before Pulse 10 years ago ▶ 2:02 Gunman cased Disney, other targets before Pulse 10 years ago Video shows Orange County deputy running driver off road near Walt Disney World ▶ 0:46 Video shows Orange County deputy running driver off road near Walt Disney World Facebook hacker puts Florida woman’s face on fake hospital photo ▶ 0:30 Facebook hacker puts Florida woman’s face on fake hospital photo Criminal investigation considered as Sloth World sloths continue to recover ▶ 1:00 Criminal investigation considered as Sloth World sloths continue to recover Deltona High School tests emergency-response drones on campus ▶ 0:49 Deltona High School tests emergency-response drones on campus Scorching heat, severe storms to sweep Central Florida. Here’s the weather whiplash timeline ▶ 1:16 Scorching heat, severe storms to sweep Central Florida. Here’s the weather whiplash timeline Crowds line up to see President Trump in The Villages ▶ 0:40 Crowds line up to see President Trump in The Villages Florida executes James Hitchcock for murder in Orange County ▶ 1:12 Florida executes James Hitchcock for murder in Orange County Florida appeals court refuses to free lawyer jailed for contempt in HOA battle ▶ 1:20 Florida appeals court refuses to free lawyer jailed for contempt in HOA battle Media will witness the execution of James Hitchcock in Florida tonight ▶ 0:53 Media will witness the execution of James Hitchcock in Florida tonight Central Florida cancer patient loses thousands to online puppy con tied to fake delivery company ▶ 0:35 Central Florida cancer patient loses thousands to online puppy con tied to fake delivery company What to know about the execution of James Hitchcock tonight in Florida ▶ 1:39 What to know about the execution of James Hitchcock tonight in Florida Why rip currents at the beaches are dangerous and how to escape one ▶ 0:44 Why rip currents at the beaches are dangerous and how to escape one Orlando Magic go ice-cold as Pistons rally from 24 down to force Game 7 ▶ 0:32 Orlando Magic go ice-cold as Pistons rally from 24 down to force Game 7 Lower water levels at Cranes Roost Park in Altamonte Springs. Where is the water low near you? ▶ 0:38 Lower water levels at Cranes Roost Park in Altamonte Springs. Where is the water low near you? Previous photo Next photo Loading... BACK TO TOP TV Listings Email Newsletters RSS Feeds Contests and Rules Contact Us / Follow on Social Media Careers at WKMG Closed Captioning / Audio Description Public File Current EEO Report Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Info FCC Applications EEO Report Disability Assistance Cookie Preferences Follow Us Visit our YouTube page (opens in a new tab) Visit our Facebook page (opens in a new tab) Visit our Instagram page (opens in a new tab) Visit our X page (opens in a new tab) Visit our RSS Feed page (opens in a new tab) Get Results With Omne If you need help with the Public File, call (407) 291-6000 At WKMG, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence. Copyright © 2026 ClickOrlando.com is managed by Graham Digital and published by Graham Media Group, a division of Graham Holdings.