--- page 1 ---
TRENDING
LOCAL NEWS
‘Shocking violation:’ Lake County
commissioners order takedown of secret
surveillance cameras
Flock Safety installed about 100 cameras in new pilot program to fight crime
Brian Didlake, Reporter
Published: August 12, 2021 at 6:17 PM
Tags: Lake County, Traffic, Trending
Gov. DeSantis signs 6 more Florida laws. Here’s the full lineup
‘Welcome to Rockville’ put on pause over severe weath
Advertisement
NEWS
WATCH LIVE
WEATHER
GETTING RESULTS.
TRAFFIC
FEATURES
S
Advertisement

--- page 2 ---
TAVARES, Fla. – Surveillance cameras are being taken down across Lake County after
commissioners say they didn’t know about them in the first place.
According to the Lake County Sherriff’s Office, surveillance cameras were installed around the
county in July under a new pilot program to help fight crime, but county commissioners said the
cameras have to go.
[TRENDING: Doctor in critical care for COVID | Hospitals run low on nurses | How, when to
watch meteor shower]
“At this point, they need to remove them. Charge them for removing them,” said one commissioner
during a county board meeting earlier this week.
Lake County commissioners said they are sending a cease-and-desist letter to Flock Safety after the
company installed surveillance cameras that monitor license plates and vehicle details.
Around 100 cameras were installed across Lake County and are used to assist with Amber Alerts or
vehicle thefts.
“It’s shocking they even put them in places where they never would’ve been approved in the first
place had they gotten the appropriate approval,” said Commissioner Josh Blacke, who brought up
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 3 ---
the topic in a board meeting after learning about the cameras on social media.
After doing some research, he said he found out about the pilot program, which was approved by
the Lake County Sheriff’s Office in July.
Other commissioners said it was their first time hearing of the temporary pilot program.
According to the sheriff’s office, the tech company was scheduled to install cameras in areas that
didn’t require a permit, but commissioners said that’s not the case.
“It is a violation of procedure and, quite frankly, the law for them to do this, and I think in the
strongest possible terms have them get rid of these things in the next 24 hours,” Blacke said
Flock Safety responded to the board decision in a statement:
“Flock Safety contracted directly with the Lake County Sheriff’s Office, and we worked with their team to
select locations. Cameras were installed a few weeks ago. Not all locations require permits, and there was
an honest miscommunication about the need for permits at some of these sites. Since we learned of this
mistake, we are starting to remove all the cameras immediately. We have installed 1000s of cameras
around the country, including all over Florida, and our team moves very quickly. As I mentioned before, we
want to help LCSO solve crime quickly, which has already proven effective during this pilot period. This
technology has proven time and again to solve crime while mitigating biases.
Since 70% of crime happens with a vehicle, we focus on license plates and vehicle details. We do not use
facial recognition technology and do not sell data to third parties.
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 4 ---
One other note, by default, all footage is deleted every 30 days on a rolling basis. And no one can pull
footage older than 30 days per our default settings. Agencies can download and save an individual license
plate as evidence for longer than 30 days, per their evidence retention policies. The only caveat to our data
retention policy is that if a democratically elected governing body or person has a written law or policy
with a data retention limit beyond 30 days, we will adhere to that policy.”
Blacke said that after this ordeal, he’ll be doing everything to ensure there will be no similar
cameras in Lake County again.
The Lake County Sheriff’s Office has since terminated the pilot program with Flock Safety and said if
there is a change of heart from commissioners on the program, it is willing to revisit the topic,
saying the tool can be a benefit to help the agency fight crime.
The Lake County Sheriff’s Office also sent a statement responding to the board’s decision:
“The company reached out to us last year regarding their product and eventually came to the sheriff’s office
and provided a demonstration as to how it works. Representatives offered to install them at certain
locations that would be considered valuable, based upon the volume of traffic, for a testing-and-evaluating
period. The Company started installing cameras on July 12, 2021, under an approved temporary pilot
program. The company representative stated the company would install the cameras at locations that do
not require permitting. According to Lake County, the company installed cameras on County properties
which do require permitting. Yesterday, Lake County declined Flock’s proposal to install cameras on County
property where permits were required and voted to remove the cameras.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement

--- page 5 ---
While this technology is incredibly beneficial and helps our detectives solve crimes, the sheriff’s office
terminated the pilot program with this company. We will, however, should Lake County approve, revisit the
use of this technology given the benefits that such a system provides.”
Copyright 2021 by WKMG ClickOrlando - All rights reserved.
Advertisement

--- page 6 ---
Advertisement
We're tracked down where the most mail
was reported stolen in Central Florida. Wh…
▶0:32
Someone stole hot dogs, more from ESE
program at Volusia County high school
▶0:51
Advertisement

--- page 7 ---
Advertisement

--- page 8 ---
Loading...
Advertisement

--- page 9 ---
FOLLOW US
GET RESULTS WITH OMNE
TV Listings
Email Newsletters
RSS Feeds
Contests and Rules
Contact Us / Follow on
Social Media
Careers at WKMG
Closed Captioning /
Audio Description
Public File
Current EEO Report
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Info
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Disability Assistance
Cookie Preferences
If you need help with the Public File, call (407) 291-6000
At WKMG, we are committed to informing and delighting our audience. In our commitment to covering our communities with
innovation and excellence, we incorporate Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to enhance our news gathering, reporting, and
presentation processes. Read our article to see how we are using Artificial Intelligence.
BACK TO TOP
Advertisement