source: packet.pdf
sha256: d45541905fc6b6cc256681444f6d1eb6f8c7d3410c6dd404180e786b108155b7
pages: 76
ocr_pages: 4
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
November 3, 2025
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 3, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 862 4139 2828      Passcode: 573143
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Consideration for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Reach Codes for Cooling Upgrades and Planned Home Renovations, 2025 Code Cycle — Informational
Provide direction on reach codes options for cooling upgrades and planned home renovations for the 2025 Code
Cycle.
CEQA: This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of feasibility or planning
studies for possible future actions which the City Council has not approved, adopted or funded. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15262.)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of
the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-
Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
1 of 76

--- page 2 ---
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group
presentation, with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals
associated with the presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be
submitted to clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with
limited English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the
City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make
reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 76

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-10589
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
November 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Reach Codes for Cooling Upgrades and Planned Home Renovations, 2025 Code Cycle — Informational
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on reach codes options for cooling upgrades and planned home renovations for the 2025 Code Cycle.
BACKGROUND:
Every three years, California updates its Building Standards Code, known as Title 24, to incorporate the latest technology, 
best practices, and policy goals for safe, efficient, and sustainable buildings. Title 24 includes requirements for building 
safety, energy efficiency, and green building practices. The California Green Building Standards Code (CALGreen) sets the 
statewide baseline for sustainable design, such as water efficiency and waste reduction, while the California Energy Code 
establishes minimum energy efficiency standards, such as for insulation, heating and cooling systems, lighting, and solar. 
The City of San Mateo updates its building codes every three years in alignment with the state’s code cycle and often 
adopts local amendments that bolster the state’s minimum requirements. In 2015, San Mateo established its first reach 
code, and since then has regularly explored and adopted reach codes to advance San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan 
priorities. At the June 16, 2025 City Council meeting discussion of the Electrify San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy, 
City Council directed staff to further explore reach codes during planned equipment upgrades and home renovations and 
conduct broad community engagement on potential reach code approaches to adopt.  
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is a joint powers agency established in 2016 to provide clean electricity in San Mateo County. 
PCE supports jurisdictions in the adoption of reach codes to advance local and regional climate goals. Through the Bay 
Area Reach Codes effort, PCE, in partnership with Silicon Valley Clean Energy (SVCE), is providing model ordinances and 
technical support to city staff. The Bay Area Reach Codes team developed model codes for the following four reach code 
options:
1)
Cooling upgrade requirements for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
2)
Cooling upgrade requirements for non-residential buildings
3)
FlexPath for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
4)
Electric-readiness requirements for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
This report provides background on reach codes, details the four reach code options, and summarizes contractor and 
community engagement and feedback, and feedback from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.
REACH CODE BACKGROUND
The City of San Mateo has a strong history of adopting reach codes and being a leader in sustainability. In the last five 
years, more than 70 cities adopted local regulations requiring new construction to be all electric, including the City of San 
Mateo. The City of Berkeley was notably one of the first to adopt such a requirement in August 2019. On April 17, 2023, 
3 of 76

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in California Restaurant Association v. City of Berkeley determined that a local ordinance 
that generally prohibited the installation of natural gas infrastructure was preempted by federal law, namely the Energy 
and Conservation Act (EPCA). Because of this litigation, in 2024 the City had to pause enforcement of the City’s reach 
codes that required new all-electric construction and required heat pump installation during air conditioner replacements 
in single family homes, duplexes, and townhomes. 
On January 21, 2025, the City Council adopted a reach code that requires energy performance margins for new 
construction to replace the City’s unenforceable new construction reach code. This reach code was needed to bridge a gap 
and will expire at the end of the current code cycle on December 31, 2025. The Bay Area Reach Codes partnership 
developed four model reach code options for the 2025 code cycle, which is the cycle for the next three years. None of the 
reach code options prohibit the installation of gas infrastructure or gas equipment to ensure EPCA conformance.
California Assembly Bill 130 (AB 130) restricts cities and counties from adopting local amendments to the
California Building Standards Code applicable to residential units until June 1, 2031, with certain exceptions. The
reach code options discussed in this report are within the exceptions provided in AB 130 and California Health and Safety 
Code Sections 17958.5, and 17958.7. Specifically, these reach code options are excepted from AB 130 because they “align 
with a general plan approved on or before June 10, 2025, and that permits mixed-fuel residential construction consistent 
with federal law while also incentivizing all-electric construction as part of an adopted greenhouse gas emissions reduction 
strategy.” 
REACH CODE OPTIONS
These reach code options do not require whole home electrification, nor do they necessitate a property owner to initiate a 
project for the sole purpose of meeting the reach code requirements. In contrast to the Electrify San Mateo Sustainable 
Building Strategy effort that reviewed broad policy areas to electrify existing buildings and whole home electrification 
costs, the reach code options hone in on specific project opportunities to encourage building electrification and energy 
efficiency when work is already voluntarily being completed. Planning for major renovations and cooling upgrades involves 
planning for the financing and assembling the contractor or contractor team to go through this change. These are major 
investments and are the ideal time to consider additional measures that benefit the environment and living spaces 
through improved comfort, health, and safety.   
This section of the report reviews four reach code options and includes an overview of reach code requirements, 
estimated greenhouse gas emission reductions, permit data analysis, and cost impacts. State law requires that local 
amendments to the Energy Code be both energy-saving and cost effective relative to the base codes. To make these 
findings, the City relies on cost-effectiveness studies provided by the California Energy Codes and Standards Statewide 
Utility Program working group, which include the technical basis to justify higher standards. The cost-effectiveness studies 
are lengthy technical documents that include energy modeling and utility rate analysis to demonstrate life cycle system 
cost-effectiveness. Cost impacts are briefly summarized below and a link to the cost-effectiveness analysis is also provided. 
It should be noted that all of the options are associated with work that is already being done on existing buildings and 
would not require the initiation of work solely for the purpose of implementing the reach codes.
1)
REACH CODE OPTION 1: COOLING UPGRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE FAMILY HOMES, DUPLEXES, AND 
TOWNHOMES
When a property owner opts to install a new or replacement air conditioner unit in a single family home, duplex or 
townhome, this reach code would require more stringent energy standards for the new and replacement air conditioning 
installations and maintain state minimum requirements for new heat pump installations for space cooling. The more 
stringent energy standards are related to attic insulation, duct insulation, air sealing, fan efficacy, and refrigerant charge 
verification. This reach code would not apply to gas furnace replacements or repairs. As mentioned above in 2023, the City 
had a similar reach code in place that required the installation for heat pumps during air conditioner new or replaced air 
conditioner installation. This reach code’s enforcement was paused in response to the federal court case. Reach Code 
Option 1 differs from the prior policy because it allows multiple pathways for compliance.
Staff reviewed the past three years of the City’s mechanical permit data which includes gas furnace replacements, air 
4 of 76

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
conditioner installations, and heat pump installations for residential and non-residential buildings. On average there were 
328 permits per year and on average there were 216 heat pumps installed per year. Though our reliance on applicant 
reporting renders the data collection imperfect, staff feels confident stating that these numbers demonstrate growth in 
voluntary heat pump installations since the previous building code cycle. The data set cannot be easily filtered to compare 
building types (single family homes, multifamily buildings, nonresidential buildings) but staff estimates that the vast 
majority of permits, about 85%, are for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes. Although a large number of 
projects are already voluntarily installing heat pumps, the reach code policy would ensure that property owners consider a 
heat pump at the time of air conditioning installation. This is also an important future proofing opportunity because in 
2029 the Bay Area Air District Rule 9-4 will require zero NOx equipment for all furnace replacements. If property owners 
miss the opportunity to install a heat pump now, it may be more costly and burdensome to transition to a heat pump once 
the Air District rules are in effect.
In terms of greenhouse gas emissions, heat pumps can provide significant reductions because they are far more efficient 
than gas furnaces (and electric resistance heat) and electricity in California is derived from low-carbon energy sources. PCE 
estimates this reach code would avoid approximately ~257 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year.
Detailed life cycle system cost analysis can be found 2025 Cost-Effectiveness Study: Single Family AC to Heat Pump 
Replacement1. To summarize, there is an upfront cost difference between heat pump and air conditioner installation. The 
cost-effectiveness study, review of California TECH rebate data, and PCE’s recent research shows that the installation of a 
heat pump on average costs between $12,400 and$ 14,700 and the installation of an air conditioner on average costs 
between $10,400 to $12,500. Note, San Mateo homeowners are eligible for a $1,500 rebate for heat pump systems and 
$10,000 zero percent interest loan from PCE. While there could be a small up-front installation cost difference, the heat 
pump saves property owners over $10,000 over 30 years due to on-bill savings compared to an air conditioner. If a 
homeowner is a CARE or FERA customer, then they are eligible for additional PCE rebate of $1,000 for a heat pump. If a 
homeowner is below 80% median income, they are eligible for Peninsula Clean Energy's Full Service Program, which offers 
no-cost electrification upgrades; including heat pump space heaters, heat pump water heaters, and whole-home 
electrification. 
This reach code has been adopted by Palo Alto, Menlo Park, Mountain View, and Sunnyvale and more Bay Area cities are 
currently exploring adoption of this reach code approach. 
2)
REACH CODE OPTION 2: COOLING UPGRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
When a property owner opts to install a new or replacement air conditioner unit between 5 and 20 tons in a 
nonresidential building, this reach code would require more stringent energy standards for the air conditioner system 
installation and maintain state minimum requirements for heat pump installations for space cooling. Property owners can 
either install a single zone heat pump or a single zone air conditioner system with a furnace plus a heat recovery ventilator. 
Staff estimates this would capture approximately less than 50 permits per year based on the permit data analysis 
described above and avoid approximately ~426 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. 
Detailed life cycle system cost analysis can be found in the 2025 Nonresidential Alterations: Reach Code Study2.Considering 
a range of building types of different ages, the single zone air conditioner pathway costs an average of $86,600. The single 
zone heat pump pathway costs an average of $85,500. The model reach code and cost-effectiveness study for this option 
was just recently made available and no cities have adopted this reach code to date. 
3)
REACH CODE OPTION 3: FLEXPATH FOR SINGLE FAMILY HOMES, DUPLEXES, TOWNHOMES
When a property opts to do a major home renovation of a certain size or dollar valuation in a single-family home, duplex 
or townhome, this reach code would require the project to incorporate energy efficiency measures or electrification 
upgrades selected from a menu to achieve a target score. This reach code is named “FlexPath” because of the flexible 
1 https://localenergycodes.com/download/2034/file_path/fieldList/2025%20Single%20Family%20AC%20to%20HP%20Cost-
eff%20Study.pdf 
2 https://localenergycodes.com/download/2049/file_path/fieldList/2025%20NR%20Alterations%20CostEff%20Report.pdf 
5 of 76

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
nature of the policy. The types of projects that would be applicable to the FlexPath would be elective major residential 
addition/renovation projects that may include plumbing, electrical and appliance or fixture upgrades. Applicants of these 
types of projects typically already have an architect, engineer, and energy code compliance expert on their design team 
who could help facilitate compliance with the FlexPath reach code. This reach code would not apply to routine repairs and 
maintenance, hazard mitigation, roof or windows projects, or ADUs. The ordinance language would also include economic 
hardship and technical infeasibility exceptions. This reach code approach is estimated to avoid approximately 730 metric 
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year by 2030. 
Qualifying projects would be required to complete any combination of energy-related measures from the table below. 
Project applicants would receive points for measures that were already installed prior to the project.  The menu of 
measures and point values are determined by the Single-Family Cost-Effectiveness Study analysis: 
FlexPath Menu of Measures
Measure
Point Value
Induction Cooktop
1
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer
1
Water Heating Package
2
Air Sealing
2
Duct Sealing
3
R-49 Attic Insulation
4
Windows
4
R-15 Wall Insulation
5
New Ducts + Duct Sealing
6
R-19 Floor Insulation
9
R-30 Floor Insulation
10
Heat Pump Water Heater
12
Solar PV + Electric Readiness
13
Heat Pump Space Conditioner
18
The local FlexPath ordinance would need to establish a covered project definition and a target score. Staff is seeking 
Council direction on whether to pursue this reach code approach. If Council is interested in pursuing a FlexPath reach 
code, staff need direction on establishing the covered project definition and a target score. 
FlexPath Covered Project Definition
If the City Council lands on this option, staff recommends establishing a square footage threshold instead of a project 
valuation to define the covered projects. The dollar valuation of a project is self-reported and could result in challenging 
compliance issues. Cities that have adopted a FlexPath ordinance vary greatly in their covered project definition. Menlo 
Park’s FlexPath ordinance applies to renovations valued at $100,000 or more and projects are required to select two 
measures from the list. Santa Cruz’s FlexPath ordinance applies to renovations of 350 square feet or greater and projects 
are required to achieve a target score of 9 points. Palo Alto’s FlexPath ordinance applies to renovations of 1,000 square 
feet and greater and projects are required to achieve a target score of 12 points. 
To provide clearer outreach to the community, staff used 1,000 square feet or greater as an example FlexPath threshold. 
Staff arrived at 1,000 square feet as an example threshold because it is a very significant home renovation. Note, the 
median house size in San Mateo County is 1,600 square feet. Through a preliminary scan of the permit data, setting the 
threshold at 1,000 square feet or greater appeared to capture 80-100 projects per year. Lowering the square footage 
threshold results in capturing a greater number of projects.
6 of 76

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
FlexPath Target Score
If the City Council directs pursuing this option, staff need City Council feedback on establishing a FlexPath target score. The 
following describes an example project and possible measure packages that would achieve different target scores. In this 
example project, the property owner seeks to renovate 1,000 square feet of their home including the kitchen and living 
room. At $500/square foot, the example project construction is estimated at ~$500,000. The following describes 
compliance pathways for a target score of 12, 18, or 30:
•
To meet a target score of 12, the project includes a heat pump water heater (12 points), which costs an estimated 
$8,200 or roughly 2% of total project costs.
•
To meet a target score of 18, the project includes a heat pump space conditioner (18 points), which costs an 
estimated $12,500 or roughly 2.5% of total project costs.
•
To meet a target score of 30, the project includes a heat pump water heater (12 points) and a heat pump space 
conditioner (18 points); these measures cost an estimated $20,700 or roughly 4% of total project costs.
For each of these scenarios, there is a parallel efficiency pathway that can be met using different combinations of 
insulation, air sealing, and window measures. The costs of the efficiency measures range from 4-7% of the total project 
costs. Some of these measures are likely included in the original project scope due to the scale of projects impacted by this 
reach code. Detailed cost information can be found in the 2022 Cost-Effectiveness Existing Study: Single Family Building 
Upgrades5 and the Application of the 2022 Studies to 2025 Energy Code6. 
4)
REACH CODE OPTION 4: ELECTRIC-READINESS REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE FAMILY HOMES, DUPLEXES, AND 
TOWNHOMES
The electric-readiness reach code would require specific additions and alterations to include electric readiness as part of 
their project. The policy is focused on pre-wiring for gas cooking, water heating, clothes drying and outdoor appliances to 
reduce future retrofit costs. This policy does not guarantee the installation of electric equipment and GHG reductions cannot 
be quantified with this policy. In the long term, this reach code will save homeowners money on installing electrical 
infrastructure to support future electric equipment. The policy will also prepare homes for compliance Bay Area Air District’s 
Rules 9-4 and 9-6, which limit the sale of natural gas-fueled building appliances. This reach code mirrors electric-readiness 
requirements that are base code for new construction.
Beginning January 1, 2022, the City of San Mateo began implementation of electric-readiness requirements for laundry 
area and kitchen area requirements. This reach code option would expand on the City’s adopted reach code and apply to 
water heaters and outdoor appliances such as pool heating equipment, outdoor cooking appliances and outdoor heating 
appliances.
Typical electric infrastructure costs include reserving breaker space estimated for $0-$50, and running a new dedicated 
circuit, or conduit, which is estimated at up to $1,000 per appliance. Intervening when electrical work is already happening 
at or near or an appliance saves residents time and money as compared to needing to add the electric infrastructure 
separately in the future. Menlo Park, Mountain View and Sunnyvale adopted similar electric-readiness reach codes.
OUTREACH AND ENGAGEMENT
Per City Council’s direction, staff prioritized broad community engagement and hosted three community meetings, one 
virtual and two in-person. To promote the community events, staff reached out to the Daily Journal, posted flyers in the 
libraries and recreation centers, and posted through the City’s online social media channels and eNews. In effort to reach a 
broader audience staff also rebranded reach codes communications and messaging. Recognizing that community 
members might not be familiar with reach code terminology and verbiage, messaging was revised in effort to boost 
engagement. Participation in the meetings is summarized below.
Staff hosted an in-person community meeting on October 1 at the Main Library and 8 people attended. A majority of the 
attendees expressed support in the City pursuing reach codes and asked very specific questions about the policy details, 
5 https://localenergycodes.com/download/1222/file_path/fieldList/Single%20Family%20Retrofits%20CostEff%20Report.pdf
6 https://localenergycodes.com/download/2081/file_path/fieldList/2022+to+2025+FlexPath+Memo.pdf
7 of 76

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
implementation, and GHG impact. Staff hosted a virtual community meeting on October 21 at 6:30 pm over Zoom with 
four people attending and two participants in an exit poll showing mixed support, neutral, and no support across the reach 
code options. Staff hosted a second in-person meeting on October 23 at the Bayside Academy and 4 people attended. In 
the exit poll, all attendees supported Options 2 and 3. For Options 1 and 4, three attendees marked support and one 
neutral. 
In addition, staff reached out to HVAC contractors, general contractors, architects, and engineers. Staff reached out to 50 
HVAC contractors that had recently pulled a mechanical permit with the City and worked with PCE staff to email the ~100 
HVAC contractors in their network to ask for feedback on Reach Code Options 1 and 2, cooling upgrade requirements and 
to invite them to a contractor-focused virtual webinar. On September 25 at 12:00 pm, staff hosted one virtual webinar for 
contractors regarding the cooling upgrade reach code and four people attended. In general, attendees understood the 
proposed reach code requirements and shared that they’ve seen an increase in the installation of heat pump HVAC 
systems in recent years. One contractor provided written feedback and shared that customers are motivated to purchase 
heat pumps now with the federal incentives and that the contractor does not see the need for the increase in 
requirements beyond the state. 
Staff reviewed an interior remodel permit report for 2025 and found no duplicate names listed within project contacts. 
This permit data reflects the diversity in contractors that are doing work throughout the City, as well as the tendency of 
this type of permit to be pulled by the property owner themselves. This made gathering contractor feedback on the 
FlexPath challenging. Staff did reach out by email to general contractors, engineers, and contractors but did not hear any 
responses. 
SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION FEEDBACK
At the October 8 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, staff presented a similar report requesting Commission 
feedback on the four reach code options. Commissioners were supportive of Reach Code Options 1 and 2 for cooling 
upgrades, emphasizing the importance of rebate availability to support residential heat pump installation. Commissioners 
were also supportive of City Council adoption of Reach Code Option 3 FlexPath. Commissioners recommended the 
FlexPath ordinance impact projects that are 1,000 square feet or greater. Commissioners recommended starting with 
1,000 square feet as pilot threshold and that the City could consider revising the square footage threshold in the future 
after evaluating implementation of the reach code. For the FlexPath target score, Commissioners were concerned that the 
target score of 30 would be too high and rigid for project applicants to comply with. Some Commissioners thought that 12 
was too low and 18 or higher was the most appropriate target score. Commissioners in favor of a 12-point target score 
shared that starting with a more conservative target score would allow staff to gather lessons learned with this new reach 
code policy. Commissioners were also in favor of Reach Code Option 4 because it builds on the City’s existing electric-
readiness reach code and is a sensible future-proofing requirement.
NEXT STEPS
Staff seek City Council direction on the four reach code options for cooling upgrades and planned home renovations. 
Specifically, does the City Council direct staff to develop an ordinance for any of the four reach code options listed below:
1)
Reach Code Option 1: Cooling upgrade requirements for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
2)
Reach Code Option 2: Cooling upgrade requirements for non-residential buildings
3)
Reach Code Option 3: FlexPath for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
a.
Defining covered projects
b.
Selection of a target score
4)
Reach Code Option 4: Electric-readiness requirements for single-family homes, duplexes and townhomes
If the City Council directs staff to pursue any of the four reach code options, staff would develop a reach code Ordinance. 
After Ordinance introduction and adoption, reach codes need to be filed and approved by the California Energy 
Commission (CEC) and filed and accepted by the Building Standards Commission (BSC) before they can be enforced. CEC 
approval can take roughly four months. 
8 of 76

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Reach codes for new construction cannot be evaluated at this time because cost-effectiveness studies are not yet 
available. Cost-effectiveness studies are anticipated for Spring 2026. Staff will return to the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission and City Council when these studies and model reach codes are made available. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Implementation and enforcement of reach codes is integrated into the existing plan check and building permit procedures.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it consists of feasibility or planning studies for possible 
future actions which the City Council has not approved, adopted or funded. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15262.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
9 of 76

--- page 10 ---
From:
Martin McTaggart
Cc:
Andrea Chow; Christina Horrisberger; Alex Khojikian
Subject:
FW: Electrifying the City
Date:
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 8:33:24 AM
Good morning, City Council (Bcc’d),
 
Kindly note the below correspondence.
 
Best wishes,
Martin
 
From: 
 
Sent: Wednesday, September 17, 2025 5:50 AM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Electrifying the City
 
Dear Council Members,
 
Regarding electrifying the city of San Mateo,  PLEASE leave this to individual choice,  and not mandate
the conversion.   There are two major unintended consequences.
One the cost is prohibitive to an already extremely expensive area to live.   Isn’t the reason you raised
height limits for building to decrease the cost of living in San Mateo?
Two our power grid is already struggling from an overproduction of solar energy,  again unintended
consequences, not to mention the planned increase in housing to the city.
Shouldn’t we make sure our electric grid can handle what is being mandated?   Doesn’t one make
sure the foundation is strong before building the house on it?
 
Diane Dorricott
 
 
 
10 of 76

--- page 11 ---
From:
Martin McTaggart
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
FW: ELECTRIFICATION
Date:
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 10:30:32 AM
From: EILEEN MCKAGUE 
 
Sent: Tuesday, September 30, 2025 9:18 AM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: ELECTRIFICATION
ATTACHED IS OUR LETTER TO THE CITY COUNCIL:
11 of 76

--- page 12 ---
Brian and Eileen MeKague

September 30, 2025

Gity Gouneil

City of San Mateo

SS Wiest Fh Aner
San Mateo, GAL S440)

RE: Electrification
Dear Cay Council:

We are writing to mpectiully express our opposiiion to the proposed electrification requirenveants for
exigiing homes in our Community. While we recognine [he importance of reducing emissions and maving
foward sustainable anergy Solutions, we have Sarous concens about the practicality, fairness, and
unintended consequenars of mandating electrification in established residences.

Many homecwners, including ourselves, have invested heavily in sate and efficient natural gas
applnnoes. Requiring us to abandon these systems before the end of their useful lines. imposes:
unneotary financial burdens. The cost of replacing functioning applnces, upgrading etecincal panets,
rewiring older hommes, and potestially incrensing utility bills i6 eegnificant—especially for families and
seniors on fixed or modest incomes.

Additionally, ¢hachification may not offer the sane refabiletly thal natural gas provides. During power
qutages, gas applianaes often remain operable, offering essential resilience in emengencees. Forcing an
all-alectric transtion eliminates this backup and could beawe households mone vulnerable during arises.
We support efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but we believe the City should pursue
balanced, flexible solutions that encourage voluntary acioption of clean bechnologies rather than
imposing costh mandates. Incentve-based programs, rebates, and phased approaches would better
Sane Meents and achiewe lng-temn environnental goals without placing undue hardship on
horneonirs.

We urge the Gouncil te carefully consider the economic and practical impacts of this policy on residents
and to explore altennative paths that balance sustainability with affordability and noliability.

Thank you for your lime and for contadering ihe perspective of honveowners i this important matior,

Sinceraly,

Brian and Eileen MMeKague 1.

12 of 76


--- page 13 ---
From:
Michelle Hudson
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Andrea Chow
Subject:
Comment on Reach Codes Item
Date:
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 8:55:11 AM
Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,
I am a long time resident of San Mateo, and am also the Co-Leader of the 350 Silicon Valley San 
Mateo Climate Action Team. I am writing to you regarding the Reach Codes Agenda item for 
tonight’s SIC meeting.
The climate crisis is real. We are living in a time of federal inaction and backsliding on climate. Cities, 
more than ever, must take strong action to combat the climate crisis. Inaction will be to the 
detriment of everyone in our community and future generations.
Thank you for your past actions that have helped to make San Mateo a leader in Reach Code 
adoption. I am writing to request that you continue to help San Mateo lead by supporting strong 
Reach Codes for existing buildings.
Requiring building reach codes by Ordinance is a fair and balanced way to reduce GHG emissions. 
Voluntary programs just don’t work and create confusion for homeowners and builders. 
I acknowledge that the initial cost of electrification can sometimes be higher than replacing gas with 
gas. However, electrification can eliminate up to 10 tons of GHG emissions from each San Mateo 
home, each year.  San Mateo’s Climate Action Plan requires a reduction of approximately 300,000 
tons of GHG per year.  This goal can be met if all homeowners work together to do their share.
The cost of electrification is expected to drop, and after January 1, 2025, it is still anticipated that 
Peninsula Clean Energy will provide rebates for heat pump water heaters and there is still time 
before the end of this year.
Based on the foregoing, I support the following Reach Code proposals set forth in staff’s report:
a. 
AC2HP (Air Conditioning to Heat Pump conversion) Residential. For single family homes, 
duplexes, and townhomes, require that a failed air conditioning unit be replaced with a heat 
pump for heating and cooling. I support the optional efficiency measures, but I prefer AC2HP.
b. 
AC2HP Commercial. For commercial buildings, require failed single zone rooftop air 
conditioning units of 5 tons or more be replaced with a heat pump, OR, alternatively install a 
single zone air conditioning unit with a heat recovery ventilator.
c. 
Flex Path - remodels based on square footage. At the time of renovation of single family 
homes, duplexes, and townhomes, require home owners/builders to select improvements 
from a menu, with a desired score of at least 18 but preferably higher, such as 24. Use a 
square footage threshold for remodels of 1,000 square feet maximum, but preferably lower 
that to 750 square feet. 
13 of 76

--- page 14 ---
d. 
Electric Readiness. At time of renovation of single family homes, duplexes, and townhomes, 
require “electric readiness” improvements.
One last note about where our city is at on Reach Codes. 350 Silicon Valley San Mateo Climate 
Action Team, and others who care deeply about combatting the climate crisis and protecting the 
health of our community, have come before this commission numerous times to advocate for strong 
Reach Codes - both before and after the Ninth Circuit court decision changed the legal landscape for 
Reach Codes. In fact, we presented to this commission most recently just several months ago. Our 
Council seems to keep asking staff to do more outreach on Reach Codes, including on the same 
proposals that were presented/discussed at the last SIC meeting. I respectfully request that you 
emphatically recommend that Council put an end to the delays and outreach recommendations 
(which have yielded far less community turnout than the previous outreach meetings that were 
conducted not long ago), and move forward with adoption of all four Reach Code proposals set forth 
above. Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Michelle Hudson
Resident, City of San Mateo
14 of 76

--- page 15 ---
From:
Gail Lee
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject:
Leaf blowers and Reach code
Date:
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 8:51:53 PM
Dear members of the San Mateo City Council,
I would like to urge members to support what has been done in Burlingame, Hillsborough,
Menlo Park, and Pall Alto; and which was also recommended by the San Mateo Sustainability
and Infrastructure Commission at its meeting of September 10, 2025:
1) Place a limit on hours of leaf blower operation in residential areas and adjacent commercial
areas.
2) Begin enforcement of the new leaf blower Ordinance nine months after adoption, and
3) Recommend whether you think senalties should be assigned to the property owner, or the
leaf blower operating company
With regard to the Reach codes under consideration for existing buildings, I would like to urge
members to support Reach Codes for cooling upgrades and planned home renovations for the
2025 building code cycle.  The new codes will ensure that alternatives to use of methane gas
are selected and reduce reliance on methane which is known to cause fires, contrlbute to
indoor air pollution, contribute to respiratory illnesses, and reduce carbon emissions that
contribute to climate change and worsen environmental justice.
Thank you for your consideration of these positive environmental, health and climate positive
improvements for our community.
Sincerely, 
Gail Lee, REHS, MS, LEED Green Associate
Executive Board, Sustainable San Mateo County
Community Advisory Committee, Peninsula Clean Energy
Professor, University of San Francisco
Resident, San Bruno
 
15 of 76

--- page 16 ---
From:
Robert Whitehair
To:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Andrea Chow
Subject:
Reach Codes
Date:
Wednesday, October 8, 2025 10:53:35 AM
Dear Chair and Members
Thank you for taking up Reach Codes at tonight's meeting. And thank you for your actions last
month on gas powered leaf blowers. Your recommendations helped frame the issue when it
went to City Council earlier this week.
Home and business electrification is the one most direct, personal action that each of us can
take in response to the very real climate crisis. Bold, strong leadership by the City of San
Mateo will help every resident and business speed up the replacement of fossil gas with
healthy, clean electricity. 
I would like to point out some important points about what is before you.
The proposal for renovation speaks to a threshold of 1,000 square feet, and a point score of 18.
Everyone is probably aware of the relationship between these parameters and the "Berkeley
decision" by the 9th District Court. I urge the Commission to be as bold as possible by
reducing the threshold for square feet to 750 square feet, and increasing the point score to 30.
I believe that in this way, the Commission will once again frame the issue for positive City
Council action.
Thank you for all you do.
Robert (he, him)
Co-leader, San Mateo Climate Action Team
Acknowledgement: I reside on the unceded lands of our indigenous ancestors the
Ramaytush Ohlone, while benefiting from racial privilege. We begin making
reparations by accepting only a kinship view of our place on the planet: All life is
interconnected, interdependent, and interrelated. 
To TEXT Me
16 of 76

--- page 17 ---
From:
Tom Kabat
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Support for Building Reach Codes
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 8:05:49 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
I’m grateful to Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3, 2025 study
session to consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and
non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness"
for certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on progress for this important
issue.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of
20 tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
I support electric readiness. 
Thank you for all the important work you do helping move us toward greater climate safety.
Sincerely,
Tom Kabat
17 of 76

--- page 18 ---
From:
Sarah Hubbard
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Support for SM Building Reach Codes: Cooling, Flex Path, and Electric Readiness
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 9:06:54 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,
I am writing to you today as a concerned resident of San Mateo and a climate advocate to
express my strong support for the Building Reach Codes being considered on November 3,
2025.
I appreciate your focus on this important issue and applaud the Council and City staff for
taking the time to consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential
and non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric
Readiness" for certain residential improvements. I was further informed by my attendance at
the informative Reach Code community meeting hosted by the San Mateo Sustainability
Program Manager Andrea Chow on October 23.
Here are my specific points of support and a few proposals:
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold
of 20 tons. This aligns with what the City Council is being asked to consider for larger air
conditioning units.
For the Flex Path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to
renovations of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu. My
understanding is that a 1,000 square feet threshold will not impact many projects.
I support electric readiness standards, which will lead to greenhouse gas reductions and
prepare us for upcoming Air District NOx standards.
Thank you for your continued leadership in addressing the climate crisis and for all that you
do.
Best regards,
Sarah Hubbard
San Mateo Resident and Climate Advocate
18 of 76

--- page 19 ---
From:
Robert Whitehair
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Reach Codes on November 3 San Mateo City Council Agenda
Date:
Wednesday, October 29, 2025 9:37:56 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3, 2025 study session
to consider building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and non-
residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness" for
certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on such an important issue.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of 20
tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations of
500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
I support electric readiness. 
Thank you for all you do
Robert Whitehair (he, him)
Acknowledgement: I reside on the unceded lands of our indigenous ancestors the
Ramaytush Ohlone, while benefiting from racial privilege. We begin making
reparations by accepting only a kinship view of our place on the planet: All life is
interconnected, interdependent, and interrelated. 
 
19 of 76

--- page 20 ---
From: Mike Swire

To: City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject: Building Reach Codes
Date: Thursday, October 30, 2025 7:11:09 AM

Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,

I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3, 2025 study session to
consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and non-residential
properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness" for certain residential
improvements. I appreciate your focus on such an important issue.

I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.

I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of 20 tons.

For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations of 500
square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.

I support electric readiness.
Thank you for all you do,

Mike Swire

20 of 76


--- page 21 ---
From:
Ellyn Dooley
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Reach codes
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 9:14:48 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3, 2025 study
session to consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and
non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness"
for certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on such an important issue.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of
20 tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
I support electric readiness. This is the direction we all must take to fully prepare our built
environment for the future.
Thank you for all you do.
Ellyn Dooley
“You might think of sustainability as extending the Golden Rule through time, so that you do
unto future generations (as well as your present human beings) as you would have them do
unto you.”
- Robert Gilman, Director, Context Institute
The greates threat to our planet is the belief that
someone else will save it.
— Robert Swan
21 of 76

--- page 22 ---
From:
Elaine Salinger
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Comment about San Mateo City Council Study Session on Reach Codes
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 10:41:54 AM
Hello San Mateo City Council Members, 
We thank you for your continued leadership in response to the climate crisis. We are
excited about your consideration on November 3rd, of some important electrification
action steps. 
I lead the San Mateo County chapter of Citizens Climate Lobby. My view is not just
my opinion, it is also the opinion of 1200 CCL members in SMC and over 200
members who live inside the city of San Mateo. We wholeheartedly support
electrifying our homes and businesses with energy efficient appliances, in addition to
insulation upgrades:
We support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
We propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper
threshold of 20 tons.
For Flex path, we request that the City Council consider applying the standards to
renovations of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
And we support electric readiness. 
Thank you 
Elaine Salinger, San Mateo County Chapter Leader 
Citizens Climate Lobby
22 of 76

--- page 23 ---
From:
PETER PAFFRATH
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Building Reach Codes
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 10:28:02 AM
My wife and I support this letter to you from Bob Whitehair.  — Pete and Lynda Paffrath
"Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
 
I commend the Council and City staff for dedicating time during the November 3, 2025,
study session to review Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for both
residential and non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and
"Electric Readiness" for certain residential improvements. I value your focus on this
significant issue.
 
I support implementing cooling upgrades for residential properties.
 
I recommend setting an upper limit of 20 tons for cooling upgrades on non-residential
properties.
 
For Flex Path, I ask that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations of
500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
 
I support electric readiness. 
Pete Paffrath
23 of 76

--- page 24 ---
From:
Harry Moody
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Time to Act on Reach Codes and Electrical Issues
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 8:14:24 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council:
I want to praise the San Mateo City Council and City staff for what you did on
November 3, 2025. You gave consideration to Building Reach Codes, including
cooling upgrades for residential and non-residential properties, and related
issues. I have testified in person a City Council meetings but I can't come at
this time so I'm writing to you.
I want you to know that I give my full support to cooling upgrades for
residential properties, which affects me directly in the apartment where I live
now.
Residential is important but non-residential properties are also important.
That's why I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties should
have an upper threshold of 20 tons.
As for Flex path, I'm asking that the City Council apply standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
All these steps are important and I support electric readiness here in San
Mateo.
Thank you for everything that you do. You make me proud to live in San Mateo.
I will come to a Council meeting at my next opportunity to thank you in person,
as I've done in the past.
Harry R. Moody, Ph.D.
San Mateo, CA
 
24 of 76

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
POST PACKET 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
As of November 3, 2025, at 4:00 PM 
25 of 76

--- page 26 ---
From:
Anne Adams
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Anne Adams
Subject:
Pease consider these recommendations
Date:
Thursday, October 30, 2025 4:53:04 PM
Attachments:
image002.jpg
Importance:
High
1. The Climate Crisis as background: The climate crisis marches on. There is so
much coverage of the issue, and each of us has our own perspective of the dangers
that loom just over the horizon. On October 27, 2025, the Secretary General of the
United Nations, Antonio Guterres said: “Humanity has failed to limit global heating to
1.5C and must change course immediately.”. 
 
Worse yet, the amount of global warming Carbon Dioxide found in the atmosphere
increased by more than 3% in 2024.  At this rate, the current measure of 431 parts
per million will double within 20 years to over 800 parts per million.  Unfortunately, a
very serious increase in the earth’s temperature will follow right behind.
 
 
We thank you City Council for your continued leadership in response to the climate
crisis. We are excited about your consideration on November 3rd, of some important
electrification action steps. We support what you are doing. 
 
2. What is being considered by the Council on November 3: At the November 3
meeting, The San Mateo City Council is considering several building code options to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include cooling upgrades for both
residential and non-residential properties, as well as “Flex Path” and “Electric
Readiness”.
 
A. Cooling upgrades – residential. The City Council will be considering a possible
requirement that when an air conditioning unit fails, a heat pump must be installed by
the building owner, OR the property owner must at that time install energy efficient
measures that exceed State Code. If adopted, this would apply to single family
homes, townhomes, and duplexes. Following this standard would also prepare the
property owner to follow upcoming Air District “zero NOx” standards on gas fired
furnaces. 
We urge the City Council to adopt an ordinance that requires cooling upgrades for
residential properties at the time an air conditioning unit is being replaced. This will
reduce overall energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. 
 
B. Cooling upgrades, non-residential. Like residential properties, the City Council will
be considering a requirement that when an air conditioning unit fails, it must be
replaced with a heat pump by the building owner, OR, the owner must install energy
efficient measures. State Code already requires such action for smaller air
conditioning units. The City Council is being asked to consider extending those
standards to larger air conditioning units, up to 20 tons in size.
 
urge the City Council to adopt an ordinance that requires cooling upgrades for non-
26 of 76

--- page 27 ---
residential properties of HVAC units of up to 20 tons.
 
C. Flex Path - Renovation of 1,000 square feet or more of residential space. The City
Council will be considering a proposed requirement that single family, townhomes,
and duplex building renovations of 1,000 square feet or more include greenhouse gas
reducing improvements, with a score between 12 and 30 on the City’s score sheet.   
 
We believe that the City of San Mateo can do better than a threshold of 1,000 square
feet, to have more impact. We urge the City Council to consider energy efficiency
measures for renovations of 500 square feet or more, as other cities have done, and
to consider the highest score possible.
 
D. Electric Readiness The City Council will be considering a proposed requirement for
electric readiness for single family, townhomes, and duplex buildings, when
improvements are being made within kitchen or laundry space. The requirements
would include such improvements as reserved breaker space on electrical panels,
electrical plugs that will accommodate electric appliances, and wiring and conduit in
preparation for future installations of greenhouse gas reducing electrical appliances. 
 
We also understand that the cost of gas is increasing faster than electricity. Over the
next few years, this will create pressure to electrify the home, thereby creating
another benefit in addition to the climate benefits.
 
We urge the City Council to adopt electric readiness standards because they will lead
to greenhouse gas reductions and prepare us for the Air District NOx standards. They
will also allow our residents to be prepared, should gas prices increase, as is
expected.
 
 
Thank you for all you do
 
 Anne Adams
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Don't ask yourself what the world needs –
Ask yourself what makes you come alive, and then go do it.
Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.
                 Dr. Howard Thurman
 
If we want to change the story of the human race in the 21st century,
we have to change the stories we tell ourselves.
 
 
Anne Adams, PhD
27 of 76

--- page 28 ---
https://integrality.co

2}

28 of 76


--- page 29 ---
From:
Wendy Chou
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Andrea Chow
Subject:
Public comment: November 3 Reach Codes Special Session
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 7:56:04 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, and Councilmembers Fernandez, Cwirko-
Godycki, and Diaz Nash,
I am strongly in favor of the four proposed building reach codes put forward by City staff. All
four options are needed to make a stronger, healthier investment for San Mateo’s future. 
We agree today that clean air is an important public right. Back around the 2000s, we as a
society started to make a shift. No longer could we allow smoking right outside a public
building, a workplace, an apartment building, or a restaurant, since the drifting pollution
might affect others’ safety. By listening to the science, we eliminated the scourge of
secondhand smoke and boosted public health.
Today we can keep improving air quality through better building codes. Here are five
reasons why: 
1. 
Protect health. There’s many studies showing that we are much better off, and our 
indoor and outdoor air quality is improved, when using electric appliances instead of 
gas when possible. 
2. 
Beware misinformation. Companies that sell fossil fuels don’t want to lose their 
record-breaking profits (which were just over $100 billion in 2024), so they are 
spreading misinformation to sow confusion and help lock in their oil and gas 
customers. 
3. 
Flexibility. The proposed building reach codes offer a property owner many energy-
saving options (envelope sealing, other efficiency measures, or electrification) 
because each building’s situation is unique. 
4. 
The long view and "future proofing". Buildings are very long-lived, valuable 
investments deserving of good upkeep. Only when major renovations are already at 
play (for example 750 square feet or greater), or if the property owner has already 
voluntarily decided to upgrade their space cooling, do the Flex Path or Cooling 
upgrades reach codes come into effect. By paying a small fraction of the project cost 
more now, one can reap larger savings later. Plus, the efficiency of heat pumps 
means that monthly energy bills come way down. In addition, a representative from 
Peninsula Clean Energy informed the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission at 
its October meeting that the cost of gas is rising far more rapidly than the cost of 
29 of 76

--- page 30 ---
electricity. Finally, the Electric Readiness reach code involving wiring preparation just 
makes common sense in terms of planning ahead for the future.
5. 
Listen to youth. My stance on building electrification has been shaped by being a 
mother to a 13-year-old. What are we promising to our kids and grandkids if we don’t 
take action now in our cities and towns to reduce greenhouse gases? 
It's also important to note that Peninsula Clean Energy offers many substantial rebates,
especially for income-qualified households, and also has amazing "concierge" services for
people who want to electrify but want advice and someone to help with the research and
legwork.
I hope you will support all four of the building reach codes under discussion. I commend
you for your leadership on behalf of all San Mateans and salute the hard-working City staff
who have made this moment of progress possible. 
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Wendy Chou
Resident of San Mateo
30 of 76

--- page 31 ---
From:
Michael Colgan
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Support Strong Building Reach Codes for Clean Air and Climate
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 4:22:19 PM
Mayor Newsom and City Council Members,
Thank you for considering Building Reach Codes at your November 3 study session. I strongly
support action that will reduce harmful air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
Please require cooling upgrades for both residential and non-residential properties when
systems are replaced.
Please set the Flex Path threshold at 500 square feet or more with a score of 30 to maximize
impact.
Please adopt Electric Readiness standards for all residential improvements.
These steps will protect public health — especially children and underserved residents most
affected by indoor air toxins — and help San Mateo meet its climate goals.
Thank you for your leadership.
Michael Colgan 
 
 
31 of 76

--- page 32 ---
32 of 76

--- page 33 ---
From: Michael Colgan

To: Clerk
Subject: Support Strong Building Reach Codes for Clean Air and Climate
Date: Sunday, November 2, 2025 4:22:19 PM

San Mateo City Clerk,

Thank you for considering Building Reach Codes at your November 3 study session. | strongly
support action that will reduce harmful air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.

Please require cooling upgrades for both residential and non-residential properties when
systems are replaced.

Please set the Flex Path threshold at 500 square feet or more with a score of 30 to maximize
impact.

Please adopt Electric Readiness standards for all residential improvements.

These steps will protect public health — especially children and underserved residents most
affected by indoor air toxins — and help San Mateo meet its climate goals.

Thank you for your leadership.

Michael Colgan

33 of 76


--- page 34 ---
34 of 76

--- page 35 ---
From:
Eldridge, Karyl
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
SUPPORT for Building Reach Codes
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 3:18:40 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and Members of the San Mateo City Council,
 
In anticipation of tonight’s city council meeting, I am writing to express my support for the
Building Reach Codes that are under consideration, including cooling upgrades for residential
and non-residential properties, “Flex Path” for residential renovations, and “Electric
Readiness” for certain residential improvements. I also want to thank you for turning your
attention to this important matter that is so important to the health of our planet, as well as
the inhabitants of our homes.
 
Sincerely,
 
Karyl Eldridge
One San Mateo
*Wire Fraud is Real*.  Before wiring any money, call the intended recipient at a number you
know is valid to confirm the instructions. Additionally, please note that the sender does not
have authority to bind a party to a real estate contract via written or verbal communication.
35 of 76

--- page 36 ---
From:
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Public comment 11/3 special session: reach codes
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 10:56:29 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council:
 
Thank you for addressing Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and
non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness" for
certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on such an important issue.
 
I would like to provide a comment for your consideration:
 
I support all of the residential reach codes -- Cooling Upgrades reach code for residential
properties replacing or installing air conditioning; Flex Path reach code for renovations,
and the Electric Readiness reach codes for alterations/additions within 3 feet of an existing gas
appliance or including a new gas appliance. I also support the reach code for non-residential
properties for cooling upgrades.
 
Thank you for your service to San Mateo and for your efforts to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.
 
Ginny Fleming
 
36 of 76

--- page 37 ---
From:
Sam Fishman
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk; Robert Whitehair
Subject:
SPUR recommends modern reach codes for San Mateo"s buildings
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 12:59:36 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,
I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3,
2025 study session to review and consider adoption of Building Reach
Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and non-residential
properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness"
for certain residential improvements. We appreciate your focus on these
important measures. 
Versions of these most recent code cycle model reach codes have now
been adopted by cities representing over a million residents in the Bay Area,
and including Oakland, Sunnyvale, Mountain View, Menlo Park, Palo Alto,
and others. SPUR has worked directly with cities to support adoption of
energy codes that can cost-effectively and incrementally transition cities'
building stocks toward a healthier and more energy efficient future. 
We support cooling upgrades for residential properties, which have the co-
benefits of expanding resilience to extreme heat as risks are increasing
across the region. We propose cooling upgrades for non-residential
properties that have an upper threshold of 20 tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the
standards to renovations of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on
the Flex Path Menu.
We also support electric readiness to ensure that homes can add electric
appliances in the future without added cost or hassle. 
Thank you for your consideration of these measures!
Sincerely,
Sam Fishman
Sustainability and Resilience Policy Manager, SPUR
37 of 76

--- page 38 ---
SPUR
Join | Get Newsletters | Twitter | LinkedIn
38 of 76

--- page 39 ---
From:
Ricki McGlashan
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Reach codes
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 2:45:29 PM
I have always been pleased that San Mateo has been very responsive about Reach Codes and acting in the interests
of us all to do all we can to make our city healthier.
When you consider the issue next week, know that really leaning into being serious about saving energy and the
planet is what is needed and what we want.  Truly our future is in your hands!
Ricki and Doug McGlashan
39 of 76

--- page 40 ---
From:
Gary Trott 2
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk; "Gary Trott 2"
Subject:
Nov 3,2025 city council meeting Reach Code Study Session
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 11:15:24 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
 
Thank you City Council for your continued leadership in response to the climate crisis. I
myself, purchased an EV, had a contractor install a heat pump furnace, and a heat pump
water heater for my home.  So I am excited about your consideration on November 3rd, of
some important electrification action steps. I highly support what you are doing.
 
Unfortunately, I can not attend the San Mateo City council meeting on November 3 in
person.
 
But to be clear, I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3,
2025 study session to consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for
residential and non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and
"Electric Readiness" for certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on such
an important issue.
 
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
 
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of
20 tons.
 
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
 
I support electric readiness. 
 
Thank you for all you do
 
Warm Regards
Dr. Gary Trott
San Mateo citizen
 
 
40 of 76

--- page 41 ---
From:
John McKenna
To:
Clerk; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Reach Code Study Session - November 3, 2025
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 1:09:17 PM
Dear Honorable Mayor and City Council,
I'm writing to express my full support for the adoption of the four (4) Reach Code options
outlined by staff. As noted by staff, "These reach code options do not require whole home
electrification, nor do they necessitate a property owner to initiate a project for the sole
purpose of meeting the reach code requirements." And, "the reach code options hone in on
specific project opportunities to encourage building electrification and energy efficiency when
work is already voluntarily being completed." Lastly, "These are major investments and are
the ideal time to consider additional measures that benefit the environment and living spaces
through improved comfort, health, and safety."
When a City is presented with a prime opportunity to advance progress towards achieving its
climate goals, it is imperative that it is seized upon and not left for our children and future
generations to deal with the consequences of inaction.
Regarding the FlexPath option, I urge the City to set the threshold at 500 SF (as is being done
in San Rafael, Tiburon, Mill Valley, and Marin County) and the target score at 30.
There is a wealth of financial and technical resources available to help folks in complying with
these proposed building codes. Additionally, it has been shown that when thoughtfully
planned, main electrical panel upgrades are rarely needed in order to fully electrify homes - a
common dose of misinformation that is often suggested by those opposed to these types of
codes.
Thank you for continuing to lead in San Mateo - it has an outsized impact beyond the borders
of the City.
Sincerely,
John McKenna
41 of 76

--- page 42 ---
From:
Claire Shintani
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Support for Building Reach Codes
Date:
Sunday, November 2, 2025 2:28:36 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,
I applaud the Council and City staff for taking the time at the November 3, 2025 study
session to consider Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades for residential and
non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric Readiness"
for certain residential improvements. I appreciate your focus on such an important issue.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties.
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of
20 tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
I support electric readiness. 
Thank you for all you do,
Claire Shintani
42 of 76

--- page 43 ---
From:
Teri Whitehair
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Building Reach Codes November 3rd Study Session
Date:
Friday, October 31, 2025 10:25:21 AM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
Thank you, Council and City staff, for considering Building Reach Codes, including cooling upgrades
for residential and non-residential properties, "Flex Path" for residential renovations, and "Electric
Readiness" for certain residential improvements at the November 3, 2025 study session. Your focus on
such important issues is very much appreciated.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties, cooling upgrades for non-residential properties
with an upper threshold of 20 tons and "Electric Readiness".
For "Flex Path", I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations of 500
square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the "Flex Path" Menu.
Thank you again for all that you do to make the City of San Mateo a leader.
Teri Whitehair
Vice President, Board
Elders Action Network
eldersaction.org
Future Design Group, Marketing Director
https://eldersaction.org/future-design-group/
"We can change the earth’s vibrations by the beauty we make"
Artist Javier Garcia Lemus
43 of 76

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo 
City Council Meeting 
 
POST PACKET 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Received after November 3, 2025, 4:00 PM 
44 of 76

--- page 45 ---
From:
Sue Blockstein
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Building Reach Codes
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 4:03:32 PM
Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council,
I am writing in support of Building Reach Codes that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
I urge the City Council to adopt an ordinance that requires cooling upgrades for residential
properties at the time an air conditioning unit is being replaced. This will reduce overall
energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. 
I propose that cooling upgrades for non-residential properties have an upper threshold of
20 tons.
For Flex path, I request that the City Council consider applying the standards to renovations
of 500 square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the Flex Path Menu.
I support electric readiness.  
Thank you.
Sue Blockstein
San Mateo Resident
45 of 76

--- page 46 ---
From:
Yuma Katada
To:
Clerk
Subject:
About Reach Codes
Date:
Monday, November 3, 2025 9:01:30 PM
"Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council
I enjoy how you are taking time into considering Building Reach Codes, which includes
cooling upgrades, "FlexPath", and "Electrical Readiness" for residential and/or non-residential
properties.
I support cooling upgrades for residential properties, with cooling upgrades for non-residential
properties having an upper threshold of 20 tons.
For Flex path, I propose for you to consider applying the standards to renovations of 500
square feet or more, with a score of 30 on the FlexPath Menu.
I also support electric readiness. 
46 of 76

--- page 47 ---
Reach Codes for Cooling 
Upgrades and Planned 
Home Renovations
November 3, 2025
City Council
1
47 of 76

--- page 48 ---
Recommendation
Provide direction on reach code options for cooling 
upgrades and planned home renovations for the 2025 
Code Cycle.
2
48 of 76

--- page 49 ---
What are Reach Codes?
•
California Building Standards Code 
standardizes the construction of residential 
and non-residential buildings in California
•
Reach codes = Local amendments to the 
state code that reach above the state 
requirements
•
Upcoming code cycle: January 1, 2026 – 
December 31, 2028
3
49 of 76

--- page 50 ---
City Climate Goals
On-road transportation
53%
Commercial/industria
l built environment
16%
Residential built 
environment
22%
Off-road equipment
3%
Solid waste generation
4%
Landfill
1%
Rail
1%
Water and wastewater
0.32%
San Mateo GHG Emissions Inventory
4
50 of 76

--- page 51 ---
Bay Area Reach Codes
•
Collaboration supporting agencies in adopting Reach Codes 
for a sustainable future
•
Co-led by Peninsula Clean Energy
•
Peninsula Clean Energy is San Mateo County’s not for profit 
locally-led electricity provider, providing 100% carbon free 
electricity for use in our homes, businesses, and electric 
vehicles
•
Mission: To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
expanding access to sustainable and affordable energy 
solutions
5
51 of 76

--- page 52 ---
Reach Code Options Overview
Single Family, Townhomes, Duplex
Option 1: 
Cooling Upgrades
These reach codes…
§ Do not ban the use of any gas appliances or require immediate equipment replacement.
§ Focuses on elective intervention points to encourage efficiency or add infrastructure.
§ Must demonstrate cost-effectiveness, as approved by the California Energy Commission 
(CEC).
Option 4: 
Electric Readiness
Option 3: 
FlexPath
Nonresidential
Option 2: 
Cooling Upgrades
~257 MT CO2e per year by 2030
N/A
~730 MT CO2e/yr by 2030​
~427 MT CO2e per year by 2030
Single Family, Townhomes, Duplex
6
52 of 76

--- page 53 ---
Option 1: Cooling Upgrades Reach Code 
Single Family Homes, Duplexes and 
Townhomes
When replacing or adding space cooling choose 
one of the following:
› Install a heat pump space conditioner at State 
Code; 
                                  OR
› Install an air-conditioner and other energy 
improvements that go above State Code.
This reach code does not impact furnace 
replacements.
7
53 of 76

--- page 54 ---
Cooling Upgrades Costs
Up-Front Costs
• Heat pumps can cost $1,000 - $3,000 more than air 
conditioner units. Rebates often cover the gap.
Bill Savings
• Heat pumps save residents $200-$400 per year in bill 
costs compared to air conditioners.
Lifecycle Costs
• Heat pumps can both heat and cool a home, so only 
one piece of equipment needs to be maintained 
instead of two.
Sources: Single Family Air Conditioner Replacements Cost-effectiveness Report, Climate Zone 3 & 4
Bill Impacts of Home Electrification Across the Bay Area
8
54 of 76

--- page 55 ---
Heat Pump 
Water Heater
$2,500 rebate
Heat Pump 
HVAC
$1,500 rebate
Zero Percent 
Loan
 
$10,000 Loan
• $1,000 for CARE/FERA, $1,000 for electrical panel upgrade
• No-cost/low-cost full-service home electrification for income-eligible 
homeowners 
Peninsula Clean Energy Rebates
9
55 of 76

--- page 56 ---
•
Average 328 permits per year, includes all building types
•
Average 216 heat pumps installed per year
•
Average 20-40 AC projects
•
~257 MT CO2e per year by 2030
•
Adopted by Palo Alto, Menlo Park, Mountain View, and 
Sunnyvale; currently under review by more Bay Area cities
Option 1: Cooling Upgrades Reach Code 
Single Family Homes, Duplexes and 
Townhomes
10
56 of 76

--- page 57 ---
Option 2: Cooling Upgrades Reach Code 
for Nonresidential Buildings
When replacing or adding single zone rooftop 
HVAC, choose one to install:
› A single zone heat pump (cooling + heating) and 
comply with State Code; 
OR
› A single zone air-conditioner (cooling only) and 
a heat recovery ventilator
11
57 of 76

--- page 58 ---
Option 2: Cooling Upgrades Reach Code 
for Nonresidential Buildings
•
Average 328 permits per year, includes all building 
types
•
Average 216 heat pumps installed per year
•
Average 20-40 AC projects
•
~427 MT CO2e per year by 2030
•
Has not been adopted by other jurisdictions
12
58 of 76

--- page 59 ---
Option 3: FlexPath for Single Family 
Homes, Duplexes and Townhomes
Requires alteration and/or addition projects of a certain 
size or dollar valuation (e.g., 1,000 ft2) to install energy 
improvements from a menu of measures to achieve a 
target score. 
•
Does not apply to routine repairs and maintenance, 
roof or window only projects, or ADUs.
•
If measures have previously been installed, applicants 
will receive credit.
•
Economic hardship and technical infeasibility 
exceptions included.
13
59 of 76

--- page 60 ---
FlexPath Example Project Scenario
› Remodel of 1,000 ft2 kitchen and living room in 
a single family home
› No existing air conditioning
› Construction cost ~$500,000 ($500/ft2)
How will this comply with a FlexPath 
Ordinance?
14
60 of 76

--- page 61 ---
FlexPath Example Project Measures: Target Score = 18 
Compliance Path 1
› Project chooses heat pump space conditioner 
(18 points) to comply 
› Total compliance cost = $12,500
2.5% cost increase
Rebates available to homeowner, not included in FlexPath calculations
Compliance Path 2
› Project chooses water heating package (2) + 
air sealing (2) + attic insulation (4) + windows 
(4) + new ducts + duct sealing (6)
› Total compliance cost = $21,800
4.5% cost increase
Measure
Point Value
Induction Cooktop
1
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer
1
Water Heating Package
2
Air Sealing
2
Duct Sealing
3
R-49 Attic Insulation
4
Windows
4
R-15 Wall Insulation
5
New Ducts + Duct Sealing
6
R-19 Floor Insulation
9
R-30 Floor Insulation
10
Heat Pump Water Heater
12
Solar PV + Electric Readiness
13
Heat Pump Space Conditioner
18
15
61 of 76

--- page 62 ---
Option 3: FlexPath Reach Code for Single 
Family Homes, Duplexes and Townhomes
•
For 1,000 ft2 threshold, average 80-100 permits per year
• ~730 MT CO2e per year by 2030
•
Cities with FlexPath ordinances:
•
Menlo Park: $100,000 or more and projects required to select two 
measures from list
•
Santa Cruz: 350 square feet or greater, projects required to achieve 
a target score of 9
•
Palo Alto: 1,000 square feet or greater and projects required to 
achieve a target score of 12
16
62 of 76

--- page 63 ---
FlexPath Example Project Measures: Target Score = 12 
Compliance Path 1
› Project chooses a heat pump hot water heater 
(12 points) to comply 
› Total compliance cost = $8,200
2% cost increase
Rebates available to homeowner, not included in FlexPath calculations
Compliance Path 2
› Project chooses air sealing (2) + attic 
insulation (4) + new ducts + duct sealing (6)
› Total compliance cost = $18,400
4% cost increase
Measure
Point Value
Induction Cooktop
1
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer
1
Water Heating Package
2
Air Sealing
2
Duct Sealing
3
R-49 Attic Insulation
4
Windows
4
R-15 Wall Insulation
5
New Ducts + Duct Sealing
6
R-19 Floor Insulation
9
R-30 Floor Insulation
10
Heat Pump Water Heater
12
Solar PV + Electric Readiness
13
Heat Pump Space Conditioner
18
17
63 of 76

--- page 64 ---
FlexPath Example Project Measures: Target Score = 30 
Compliance Path 1
› Project chooses a heat pump hot water heater 
(12 points) + heat pump space conditioner (18 
points) to comply 
› Total compliance cost = $20,700
4% cost increase
Rebates available to homeowner, not included in FlexPath calculations
Compliance Path 2
› Project chooses air sealing (2) attic insulation 
(4) + windows (4) + wall insulation (5) + new 
ducts + duct sealing (6) + floor insulation (9)
› Total compliance cost = $37,100
7% cost increase
Measure
Point Value
Induction Cooktop
1
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer
1
Water Heating Package
2
Air Sealing
2
Duct Sealing
3
R-49 Attic Insulation
4
Windows
4
R-15 Wall Insulation
5
New Ducts + Duct Sealing
6
R-19 Floor Insulation
9
R-30 Floor Insulation
10
Heat Pump Water Heater
12
Solar PV + Electric Readiness
13
Heat Pump Space Conditioner
18
18
64 of 76

--- page 65 ---
Option 4: Electric Readiness for Single 
Family Homes, Duplexes and Townhomes
When doing alterations and additions within three feet of an existing gas appliance or 
including a new gas appliance:
•
Require some electrical infrastructure (e.g., circuits, conduits, reserved breakers)  
•
Covers the following gas appliances: stoves/cooktops, dryers, water heaters, and 
outdoor appliances
Cost: May range from approximately $150 to $1,000 per appliance
Exceptions:
Triggers electrical permit otherwise not required for the project
Triggers electrical service and/or panel upgrades 
Triggers repairs and/or safety improvements
New attached accessory dwelling units
Mobile homes, manufactured housing
19
65 of 76

--- page 66 ---
• Expands on City’s current reach code
• Permit data not available
• Quantifiable GHG emissions reduction not available
• Adopted by Menlo Park, Mountain View, and Sunnyvale
Option 4: Electric Readiness Reach Code 
for Single Family Homes, Duplexes and 
Townhomes
20
66 of 76

--- page 67 ---
Date and Time
Location
Meeting
September 25, 2025, 12:00 - 1:00 pm
Zoom
Contractor Meeting
October 1, 2025, 6:00 - 7:00 pm
Main Library – Oak Room
55 W. 3rd Avenue
In-person Community Meeting
October 6, 2025, 7:00 pm
City Hall and Zoom
Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission Meeting
October 21, 2025, 6:30 - 7:30 pm
Zoom
Virtual Community Meeting
October 23, 2025, 7:00 - 8:00 pm
Bayside Academy – Old Gym
2025 Kehoe Avenue
In-person Community Meeting
Reach Codes Outreach and Engagement
21
67 of 76

--- page 68 ---
•
Supportive of all four reach code options
•
Emphasized importance of rebate availability to support heat 
pump installations
•
For FlexPath: 1,000 ft2 threshold and 12-point or 18-point 
target score
Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission Feedback
22
68 of 76

--- page 69 ---
Recommendation
Provide direction on reach code options for cooling 
upgrades and planned home renovations for the 2025 
Code Cycle.
23
69 of 76

--- page 70 ---
Staff seek City Council direction on the four reach code 
options:
1) Cooling upgrade requirements for single family homes, 
duplexes and townhomes
2) Cooling upgrade requirements for non-residential buildings
3) FlexPath for single family homes, duplexes and townhomes
a) Defining covered projects 
b) Selection of  target score 
4) Electric-readiness requirements for single family homes, 
duplexes and townhomes
24
70 of 76

--- page 71 ---
Thank you!
Taylor Taylor
ttaylor@trccompanies.com
(510) 431-8547 
25
Andrea Chow
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007 
71 of 76

--- page 72 ---
Title 24 – California Energy Code and CALGreen
•
Title 24 California Code of Regulations (California 
Building Standards Code) standardizes the 
construction of residential and non-residential buildings 
in California
•
Part 6 Energy Code and Part 11 Green Building Code 
(CALGreen) of Title 24 govern energy efficiency in 
buildings
•
It is updated every three years, with an intervening 
code adoption 18 months into each update
•
Current code cycle: 
• January 1, 2023- December 31, 2025
•
Upcoming code cycle: 
• January 1, 2026 – December 31, 2028
26
72 of 76

--- page 73 ---
Cooling Upgrades - Policy Context
Air Quality Regulations
› Gas equipment creates NOx emissions
› NOx emissions create ozone and PM2.5
› The Bay Area is in “non-attainment” for ozone and particulate matter (PM)
› Beginning in 2029, furnace sales will be restricted by California Air Resources 
Board and the Bay Area Air District.
› Future proofing
» Installing a heat pump now helps residents get homes ready for upcoming Air District rules.
» Upgrading to a heat pump when adding or replacing A/C results in cost savings, both over the 
lifetime of the equipment, and right away for reduced monthly bills.
27
73 of 76

--- page 74 ---
Expire December 31, 2025
› Electric-readiness for home renovations in single family, 
townhouses, duplexes
»Requires kitchen and laundry area renovation include installation of 
an outlet to allow for the use of electric appliances in the future
»Requires panel replacement and panel upgrade projects to include 
panel capacity/breaker space for future electrification
› Electric vehicle infrastructure for new construction
»Requires enhanced EV charging infrastructure for all building types
› Energy Performance Margins for new construction
»Requires performance margins for all building types
City’s Current Reach Codes
28
74 of 76

--- page 75 ---
FlexPath Menu of Measures
Measure
Point Value
Induction Cooktop
1
Heat Pump Clothes Dryer
1
Water Heating Package
2
Air Sealing
2
Duct Sealing
3
R-49 Attic Insulation
4
Windows
4
R-15 Wall Insulation
5
New Ducts + Duct Sealing
6
R-19 Floor Insulation
9
R-30 Floor Insulation
10
Heat Pump Water Heater
12
Solar PV + Electric Readiness
13
Heat Pump Space Conditioner
18
29
75 of 76

--- page 76 ---
Typical Reach Codes Adoption Schedule
Month 1 
•Reach code 
ordinance 
introduction and 
adoption
Month 2
•Reach code 
ordinance 
submittal to 
California Energy 
Commission 
(CEC) and 
Building Standards 
Commission 
(BSC)
Month 3
Month 4
Month 5
Month 6
•CEC approval of 
City’s reach codes
•City begins reach 
code enforcement
30
76 of 76