source: packet.pdf
sha256: 774621789582e131779f4ae88145d29cd0b8ecf68ba4cd1426d7e802b5da5eba
pages: 14
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
October 3, 2022
5:30 PM
Council Chambers
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
 Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, October 3, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 840 8092 2623      Passcode: 199244
Council Member Amourence Lee will teleconference into this meeting from: 
59617 Keiki, Haleiwa HI 96712
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
City Council Strategic Plan – Mid-Cycle Updates
Review mid-cycle status updates of the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23.
2.
Boards and Commissions Policy Considerations and Campaign Finance Dashboard Review
Provide policy direction for matters concerning Boards and Commissions including compensation and
qualifications for service, as well as adding two youth ex officio seats to the Parks and Recreation Commission;
amend the governance of mayoral succession to reflect adoption of elections by-district; and receive a
presentation on the City’s newly released campaign finance dashboard.
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
1 of 14

--- page 2 ---
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
Process: The Mayor will call for public comment, the Clerk will then ask for all speaker slips (in person) to be turned in to the clerk and all hands
raised (attending remotely via Zoom or phone) for those wishing to speak. The Clerk will then announce how many speakers and who the last
speaker will be for both in person and virtual. The Mayor will announce the amount of time per speaker based on the number of speakers. In
person speakers will be taken first, followed by remote speakers. 
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 14

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 22-6660
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Strategic Plan – Mid-Cycle Updates 
RECOMMENDATION:
Review mid-cycle status updates of the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23. 
BACKGROUND:
The City Council goal setting process includes a three-step deliberation resulting in the adoption of a Strategic Plan that 
allows for multi-year resource planning. The first step of the process was a City Council workshop, held on January 29, 
2022. At this workshop, the City Council reviewed the status of items on the adopted fiscal year 2021-22 Strategic Plan and 
developed a proposed Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23. At the March 7th meeting, City Council reviewed the draft 
Strategic Plan to ensure accuracy. City Council formally adopted the fiscal year 2022-23 Strategic Plan at the April 4th 
meeting. 
Staff is providing a mid-cycle review of the strategic plan from fiscal year 2022-23 and will present the updates to City 
Council. This report provides a high-level summary of each objective and is included in the 202-2023 Strategic Plan 
Updates (Attachment 1). All objectives are on track and staff does not have any specific items to highlight at this time. 
Staff recommends City Council review the objectives and respective updates, and staff will be available to answer any 
questions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this agenda item. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This strategic plan review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2022-23 Strategic Plan Updates
3 of 14

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
4 of 14

--- page 5 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
1
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
A
Complete construction on Smooth Streets Phase III and design for Phases IV and V.
Phase II construction was completed Spring 2022. Phase III construction started Sept 2022 and 
will be complete Spring 2023. Design on Phases IV and V are on‐going. 
2
Address structural issues at the Marina Library 
A
Complete structural evaluation of Marina Branch Library; apply for grant funding for the 
improvements.
Received $1.3M from State's budget surplus for this effort; submitted for $2.5M Library 
Infrastructure Grant Program to the State and awaiting information on the status of the 
application;  developing a request for proposals for design services.
3
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve safety 
and reliability of the street light system
A
Complete construction of Baywood High Voltage project. Award contract and complete 
construction of Phase 3 circuits (7 circuits total). Complete design of Phase 4 circuits (9 
circuits total). Prepare for Phase 4 construction at the beginning of FY2023‐24.
Baywood construction to resume at the end of this year, Phase 3 construction was awarded 
and scheduled to start in October 2022. Phase 4 design contract awarded and project kickoff 
scheduled for September 2022. 
4
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection and 
storage system, including dredging the Marina lagoon
A
Conduct public outreach for a property based City‐wide stormwater fee for spring 2023; 
finalize fee study.
Outreach plan and Fee Report are in development. Developing outreach planned for end of the 
year. 
5
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood Assessment
A
Complete construction of the North Shoreview Levee Improvements and submit for Letter 
of Map Revision from FEMA to remove residential properties out of flood hazard zones.
Construction is on‐going. 
6
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
A
Continue construction of the WWTP Expansion Project, UFES, and other sewer collection 
system improvements. 
Construction of the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion, UFES, and other sewer collection system 
improvements are on‐going.
7
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
A
Advertise, bid, award, and construct the Poplar Golf Course Trash Capture Device. Begin 
evaluation, selection, and installation of small trash capture devices. Commence 
implementation of enhanced trash inspections of private parcels with high and medium 
trash generating rates.
New Environmental Compliance Inspector position recruitment in process. Implementation of 
trash capture devices in public right of way is ongoing. Poplar Golf Course Trash Capture 
Device will be constructed April 2023. 
8
Develop an anti‐littering trash and cigarette butt outreach 
campaign
A
Implement anti‐littering campaign, promote Team Up to Clean Up volunteer cleanup events 
and anti‐littering messaging on social media channels and website, promote and track 
individual and business participation.
The outreach plan was approved in July and roll‐out began in September 2022.  Team up to 
clean up events are continuing to take place.
9
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030
A
Complete ordering of backlog of vehicles and decommission the compressed natural gas 
treatment system. Develop a Green Fleet Transition Plan to identify charging needs and 
vehicle alternatives.  Identify funding assistance programs (e.g., PG&E, Peninsula Clean 
Energy) and begin appropriate applications.
Assessing the decommissioning of the CNG facility and timeline; evaluating green fleet options 
with every vehicle purchase; will begin developing the Green Fleet Transition Plan this year. 
10 Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the Clean 
Water Program
A
Develop a CEQA ready preliminary design for options on advanced wastewater treatment 
for reservoir water augmentation and direct potable reuse with the SFPUC, SVCW/Redwood 
City, BAWSCA, Mid‐Pen, and Cal Water.
Council approved a Memorandum of Agreement with SFPUC, SVCW, Redwood City, CalWater, 
and Mid‐Peninsula Water District for the preliminary design of an advanced water purification 
system for the production of potable water from the City and SVCW's wastewater treatment 
plant. 
Stewardship 
of 
Infrastructure
Reliability
Resilience
Environmental 
Responsibility
1
5 of 14

--- page 6 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
11
Implement traffic programs and improvements to enhance 
safety for all users by utilizing public input and data, such as 
the input that led to the Traffic Action Plans, to improve 
safety on neighborhood roadways and intersections.
A
Complete the Local Roadway Safety Plan and identify funding for priority safety projects in 
neighborhoods. Begin traffic calming policy update and Complete Streets Plan. 
Selected consultant for Local Roadway Safey Plan and Complete Streets Plan. 
12 Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at City 
at‐grade crossings
A
Finalize permit authorizations, complete design and initiate construction of railroad 
improvements and improvements within City Right‐of‐Way for 4th and 5th Avenue grade 
crossings. Construction completion anticipated December 2024.  Begin evaluation of closure 
of other roadways necessary to qualify for quiet zone.
Caltrain completed design for improvements in railroad Right‐of‐Way and City completed 
design for improvements in the City Right‐of‐Way. Preconstruction activities, including funding 
agreements with Caltrans and permit authorizations, are complete. Caltrain scheduled to issue 
construction contracts in fall 2022 with City following thereafter. 
13 Proactively manage Citywide parking resources to optimize 
existing supply. 
A
Continue to address parking needs in North Central. Identify options to address residential 
parking needs in Downtown San Mateo (e.g. overnight residential permits).  Complete 
Citywide TDM Ordinance to reduce parking demand through increased use and support of 
alternative modes with LEAP grant funds. Identify and apply for grant funding for CPID 
Zoning Code revisions to update parking requirements for development projects in 
Downtown San Mateo. 
City received feedback from the North Central neighborhood about parking programs. MTC 
has selected a consultant to perform the work for the Citywide TDM ordinance.
14
Identify and implement measures to optimize vehicle traffic 
on major roadways, reduce green‐house gas emissions, and 
improve safety for all modes of transportation.
A
Coordinate with SMCTA and SamTrans on multimodal design for US101/92 Direct Connector 
project (grant applications for feasibility and design). Obtain project approvals, finalize EIR, 
and begin design on US‐101/Peninsula Interchange project to improve safety in North 
Central near Poplar Avenue. Begin design on Norfolk/Fashion Island Blvd intersection and 
nearby improvements to address congestion on the 19th Ave/Fashion Island Blvd. corridor.  
Funding  secured for feasibility study and design for the multimodal aspects of the 101/92 
Direct Connector project and staff is working on an MOU with SMCTA for the joint effort. US‐
101/Peninsula Interchange is on track to release draft environmental document by winter 22‐
23 and obtain project approval by end of FY22‐23. Funding has been secured for design and is 
scheduled to start in FY23‐24. 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Study is expected to be approved in 
FY22‐23, with the design following. 
15 Implement bicycle and pedestrian projects and programs 
that address safety and align with adopted City plans 
A
Identify dedicated funding sources for construction for bicycle and pedestrian projects with 
completed design. Design ATP‐funded Delaware Street bicycle corridor project. Continue 
development of Complete Streets Plan. Adopt TOD Pedestrian Access Plan and identify 
funding options for top priority projects.
Delaware Street Bicycle Corridor Project completed its environmental phase recently and staff 
will be requesting funding for design in FY22‐23. Complete Streets Plan has a consultant 
selected and will being development in FY22‐23. TODPAP is scheduled for adoption in FY22‐23. 
Consultant agreement to be awarded for Hillsdale Gap Closure Project in September 2022.
16 Implement Library Space Master Plan
A
Complete installation of new desk and other furniture. 
New desks scheduled to arrive and be installed by end of August. Desk needed to be tailor‐
made. Supply chain issues substantially extended the project timeline.
17 Provide no cost menstruation products at recreation centers
A
Identify whether current dispensers can allow for free product dispensing. If not, coordinate 
with Public Works to purchase and install new dispensers.  Purchase new products when 
ordering Janitorial supplies. 
 A review of current dispensers in underway.  Once the locations are identified staff work to 
identify a vendor if needed and implementation strategy.
18 Open a public bathroom in downtown 
A
Identify options to open bathrooms in City facilities in the Downtown to the public including 
evaluating costs to clean and maintain and safety and security.
Gathering cost estimates for cleaning and maintenance of the restroom facilities in the 
Downtown.
Quality of Life
Neighborhoods
Community 
Services
2
6 of 14

--- page 7 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
19
Enhance and fund police accountability, transparency, and 
efficiency and expand on coordinating police services with 
mental health and social services
A
Continue to work with County of SM and Stanford University Gardner Center to measure 
effectiveness of mental health clinician program.  Conduct regular QA to ensure compliance 
with requirements of the Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA), and incorporate RIPA data 
onto police transparency webpage.  Continue to reevaluate and enhance transparency 
webpage content.  Implement other projects related to transparency and accountability 
including LIVE 911 and SPIDR.  Hold Study Session to discuss role of DEI Task Force in 
evaluating Police Transparency.
Initial draft report evaluating the clinician program is anticipated in October.  Staff 
implemented a ‘survey’ mechanism for the clinician to complete with each call to assess the 
program and share progress on the PD transparency portal.  Regular QA is conducted to ensure 
ongoing compliance with RIPA, and data is live on transparency page. The Live 911 project 
went live in July and staff received a grant to fund the SPIDR customer service software 
project.
20
Adopt an ordinance that creates a buffer zone during large 
protests around clinics, like planned parenthood, so that 
accessibility remains possible. 
A
Conduct legal research and review ordinances enacted by other cities.  Draft ordinance and 
present to Council.  
Ordinance adopted by the Council on June 6, 2022.
21 Implement projects and programs to enhance Police Traffic 
Unit services. 
A
Increase officers assigned to Traffic Unit to provide increased coverage.  Adopt/implement 
MAIT (Major Accident Investigation TEAM) to enhance ability to investigate major accidents 
with neighboring agencies.  Conduct more targeted saturation details to address 
neighborhood complaints and problematic trends. 
An additional Officer has been assigned to the Traffic Division, increasing the number of 
dedicated Traffic Officers from 6 to 7, with plans to assign another FTE when staffing permits.  
A $30k grant from the State Cannabis Tax Fund has been accepted to fund DUI checkpoints, 
saturation patrols and impaired driving education this year. Central County agencies have 
adopted MAIT guidelines which establish uniform operational procedures for investigation of 
major traffic accidents. 
22 Strengthen implementation of existing red tag ordinance 
A
Evaluate amendments to Municipal Code to include additional penalties for repeat 
offenders and modifications to the hearing procedures for currently available penalties. 
Study Session completed. There were no repeat offenders at the time. Staff directed to move 
ahead with revisions to appeals process and adopting Dangerous Buildings Code. 
23 Leverage technology in support of safe and secure 
neighborhoods 
A
Continue to seek opportunities to enhance neighborhood safety, including but not limited 
to enhancing the Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) program throughout the City. 
Work to secure analytical assistance to maximize effectiveness of technology efforts.
A Crime Analyst position has been authorized and recruitment is underway. This resource will 
bring much‐needed analytical skills to bolster data‐driven policing efforts. Policies and usage 
statistics related to ALPR and UAS programs have been made available on the data 
transparency page. Staff are looking for opportunities to enhance the sUAS program to further 
leverage technology to enhance safety.
24 Maintain an ongoing community conversation on policing in 
San Mateo
A
Continue to host Real Talk Sessions; Coffee with a cop (when Covid precautions permit); 
Virtual Ride Alongs; and other activities to promote communication. Continue successful 
Community Policing Academy program. Develop academy curriculum in multiple languages 
and which targets specific demographic groups (i.e. youth, seniors).
A virtual/recorded Real Talk session was conducted in September with a focus on discussing 
our Downtown. The second annual Community Police Academy commenced in September 
with 30 participants.
25 Explore banning smoking in commercial areas
B
Implementation of this item will be deferred to a future fiscal year.
Staff is not actively working on this item.
Quality of Life
Public Health 
and Safety
3
7 of 14

--- page 8 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
26 Create a Diversity and Equity Task Force 
A
Convene the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  (DEI) Task Force to address topics 
recommended by City Council. Consider development of a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Strategic Plan for the City. 
The DEI Taskforce has been meeting and is focused on reviewing the environmental justice 
policies in the General Plan Update. Work on the Strategic Plan is underway.
27 Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and 
infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by 2030. 
A
Develop and adopt building electrification reach codes for new and existing buildings 
undergoing renovations for the 2022 Building Code cycle. Promote electrification of existing 
buildings through promoting available rebate programs and hosting public outreach events. 
Develop a plan for reaching the 2030 goal through the establishment of key milestones.
Staff is working on updates to the 2023 Building Code and will be bringing policy options to 
City Council for review in September for an effective date of January 2023. Following the 
completion of the code updates, staff will work on a decarbonization plan evaluating how to 
achieve the 2030 goal.
28 Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions
A
Continue implementation of new measures from the 2020 CAP including commercial energy 
efficiency benchmarking, expansion of EV infrastructure, and explore reach codes for the 
2023 Building Code update related to electrification, Electric Vehicle readiness, and solar 
installations.
The primary focus areas of CAP implementation has been on the 2023 Building Reach Codes 
and the expansion of EV Infrastructure. New EV Chargers are slated to be installed in the 2nd 
and El Camino Garage later this fiscal year.
29
Study campaign finance reform policies, including voluntary 
expenditure limit, disclosure requirement for independent 
expenditures, and improving access for voter education 
initiatives. 
A
Conduct legal research and review ordinances enacted by other cities.  Draft ordinance and 
present to Council.  
Currently drafting ordinance update and conducting legal research.
30 Explore policies to strengthen AB1482 Tenant Protection Act 
A
Outreach to tenant and landlord group to Identify  issues related to AB1482 provisions.  
Survey other programs and propose revisions for Council consideration.
Study session on possible tenant protection policies completed. Council directed staff to 
conduct further research and to return to Council at a later time.
31 Explore ways to explore expanding youth participation and 
representation on Boards and Commissions 
A
Research practices in other jurisdictions that have youth representation on boards and 
commissions; analyze best practices; develop policy options for implementing enhanced 
youth participation in the City's decision making processes.
Staff will bring forward a recommendation to create to ex‐officio youth members for the P&R 
commission at a study session in October. Staff are launching "Generation Voter" a youth led 
initiative to get out the vote. 
32 Evaluate leaf blower regulations 
A
Analyze policy options and best practices from other jurisdictions with the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission and bring forward recommendations for City Council 
consideration.
Work on this initiative will commence later this fiscal year, following the completion of the 
Green Building Reach Code work.
33 Study landscaping water conservation policies 
A
Continue to implement implementation of SMMC Chapter 23.72 and conditions of approval 
requiring repair of damaged landscaping with drought tolerant plants, and return to Council 
with a study session to explore other potential landscaping water conservation policies.
Staff continues to implement SMMC Chapter 23.72 and water efficiency requirements. 
Anticipate scheduling a City Council study session for further direction in winter/spring 2023.
34
Study fiscal impact of adopting an environmental, social, and 
incorporate governance (ESG) provision for our City’s 
investment policy. 
A
Council study session in late spring to evaluate the financial impact to the City's investment 
portfolio by adding ESG provisions to its Investment Policy.
City's investment advisor presented Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) and ESG to the 
Investment Advisory Committee in July 2022. Will present to the Council at a future study 
session.
35 Create a racial equity community art project
A
The pedestrian B Street areas have been identified as potential locations and possible a 
street art idea introduced informationally to the Civic Arts Committee. Will utilize input 
from the City's taskforce members and the Civic Arts Committee to further explore the 
location opportunities and further develop ideas for themes and process.
Currently drafting RFQ for artist(s). Civic Arts Committee will review draft document and 
provide feedback at their September meeting.
36
Pursue development and preservation of housing to 
increase supply of affordable and workforce housing and  
leverage external funding sources for affordable housing.
A
Continue to look for opportunities to increase supply of affordable and workforce housing, 
including City  surplus  sites downtown and acquisition/rehab of existing housing. Continue 
to look for additional funding sources.
Kiku Crossing housing project is currently under construction and is on track for completion in 
the Spring 2024. Staff is currently processing the pre‐application for 445 South B Street, 
Bespoke project (former Talbots site) and continues to work with the developer to further 
refine the proposed project.
Framing the 
Future
Social 
Leadership
4
8 of 14

--- page 9 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
37 Implement mandates for composting in multi‐family 
dwellings
A
Continue to work with ReThink Waste / South Bayside Waste Management Authority 
(SBWMA),  San Mateo County Office of Sustainability (County OOS), and city staff to 
implement requirements for SB1383 outreach, organic recycling programs, tracking and 
enforcement, edible food recovery program, and organic materials procurement.
The City is coordinating with ReThink Waste and Recology to continue to implement and 
educate those owning and living in multi‐family dwellings regarding their AB1826 and SB1383 
mandated responsibilities or determine if they are eligible for waivers.
38 Analyze density minimums for mixed‐use projects and 
update the Density Bonus and Community Benefits policies. 
A
Develop a combined Community Benefits and Density Bonus Program, with clear 
thresholds, parameters, and options for developers depending on the project type. Evaluate 
the minimum requirements for residential uses in Mixed‐Use Projects and propose 
ordinance amendments. 
Evaluating next steps, including drafting a scope for consultant services to conduct an 
economic analysis and propose recommendations; anticipate scheduling a City Council study 
session for further direction in winter/spring 2023.
39 Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
C
Staff will continue to monitor the adoption and implementation of wage theft protections in 
other municipalities and to include information about wage theft enforcement in the annual 
minimum wage mailing.
Staff will include information about wage theft enforcement in the annual minimum wage 
mailing in October.
40 Implement the Central Park Master Plan
A
Initiate construction drawings for Fallen Heroes Memorial and new playground; complete 
fundraising for the Fallen Heroes Memorial.
The Fallen Heros Memorial is at 75% completion of Construction Documents and 96% of the 
fundraising goal. The Central Park Playground Renovation is in the Design Development stage 
which is set to be completed in late 2022. 
41
Explore whether the City should adopt an ordinance to zone 
parcels for up to 10 units of residential density per parcel if 
the parcel is located in a transit‐rich area or an urban infill 
site (SB10). 
A
Conduct GIS mapping, and present analysis and recommendations to the City Council for 
further direction through a study session. 
Evaluating next steps; anticipate scheduling a City Council study session to further direction in 
spring 2023.
42
Update the General Plan, including developing public 
benefits policy for increased height areas, urban agriculture 
policies, and evaluating affordable housing 
incentives/zoning allowances for properties with adjacent 
lots, such as those owned by faith‐based organizations
A
Public outreach and engagement on drafting the goals, policies and actions for all elements 
in the General Plan will be initiated, followed by preparation of the draft General Plan. 
Concurrently, preparation of the Environmental Impact Report (EIR)  will be underway.  
Polices related to community benefits, urban agriculture and housing on properties owned 
by faith based organizations will be evaluated as part of this process.
Draft GPU goals, policies and actions published in July. Staff held three GPS meetings in August 
and started community engagement activities which will run through October. Preparation of 
the EIR started in August. Two Planning Commission meetings scheduled for Sept and two City 
Council meetings scheduled for October.
43 Develop a funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans
A
Continue to seek grant opportunities for projects identified in existing master plans. 
Continue to evaluate implementation of a stormwater enterprise and associated fee.
P&R Staff are reviewing grant opportunities and conducted a study of fee structures of similar 
cities on the Peninsula.  Staff are working with a consultant to develop a new fee structure 
which will be presented to P&R Commission and then Council for feedback and approval later 
this year.  Public Works staff are continuing to evaluate grant opportunities for grade 
separations and transportation projects and developing plan for a stormwater fee.
Framing the 
Future
Strategic 
Planning
5
9 of 14

--- page 10 ---
Fiscal Year 2022‐23 City Council Objectives
Council Focus 
Area
Strategic 
Initiatives
#
Council Objectives
Priority Work Plan and Expected Deliverables for 2022‐23
Status Update as of September 2022
44 Review Municipal Code provisions related to development 
review process and identify opportunities for streamlining
A
CDD: Continue to revise known code errors/ambiguities, reevaluate 
application/implementation of existing codes, continue to work on major code changes 
already underway, plan for critical substantive code changes not already underway for FY 
2022‐23. Implement more staff trainings to ensure codes are applied correctly and 
consistently, and accurate, clear, and consistent Code information is provided to customers. 
Update CDD website to provide more easily accessible Code/Code update information to 
customers. 
Public Works: Retain consultant to begin the development of engineering standard details 
and specifications. Identify Municipal Code sections that require updating to reflect new 
standards.  Subsequent to development of the standards, begin preparation of Developer 
Guidelines for work in the right of way.
CDD: Work is in progress and ongoing.       Public Works: Staff is evaluating consultant 
assistance for the development of standards. 
45 Plan for the downtown grade separations and long‐term 
train corridor improvements
A
Evaluate potential grant opportunities for funding grade separation studies. When funding is 
identified, develop RFP/RFQ to solicit consultant services for development of the Downtown 
Grade Separation Plan.
Developing a Rail Crossing Elimination grant application for the Downtown San Mateo Grade 
Separation Project. 
46 Create additional parking supply for Downtown San Mateo
A
Complete construction of the new downtown parking garage at 5th and Railroad. Continue 
to identify options for shared parking agreements with private development projects to 
create additional public parking supply.
Current parking supply is sufficient to meet demand. The new garage is under construction and 
is scheduled to be completed by Spring 2023. 
47 Enhance the customer experience Downtown and in other 
commercial districts
A
Transition from the Temporary Outdoor Dining program to long‐term parklet program, host 
Downtown festivals (if allowed by COVID), and continue to monitor Downtown cleanliness.
The Temporary Outdoor Dining ended on April 30th and all businesses are being transitioned 
to the long‐term programs. Festivals held in Downtown on the ped malls in August and 
September.
48 Design and implement capital improvements for permanent 
street closure.
A
Design and initiate construction on capital improvements for the permanent street 
closures/pedestrian malls.
City Council provided feedback on draft design elements at a July study session. Staff is 
working to finalize the design and select the fixtures.
49 Evaluate Downtown parking and transit incentive programs 
for employees 
A
Continue implementation of the low‐income parking permit program in Downtown parking 
garages. Evaluate other opportunities to provide transportation incentives through 
coordination with regional partners (e.g. Commute.org and/or Caltrain).
Staff continues to administer low‐income parking permit program for Downtown parking 
garages and is implementing approved lower parking rates at Railroad Ave. 
50 Increase education and resources to small businesses on 
ADA compliance 
A
Evaluate options to support small businesses on ADA Compliance and bring policy/program 
options to City Council for consideration.
Staff is partnering with the County of San Mateo to offer no cost ADA inspections to local 
businesses through a pilot program which will launch later this fall.
51 Explore options to discourage commercial vacancies 
B
Staff to continue monitoring commercial vacancies and policy approaches in other 
jurisdictions.
Staff is not actively working on this item.
52 Explore the establishment of Property‐Based Improvement 
Districts (PBIDs)
B
Continue to gauge interest from Downtown property owners.
Staff is not actively working on this item.
53 Eliminate the City’s unfunded pension and Other Public 
Employee Benefits (OPEB) liabilities by no later than 2050
A
Continue to pay the full annual required contribution (ARC) for pension and OPEB. Develop 
updated strategies to address growing pension liability.
Staff continues to monitor pension and OPEB liabilities.
54
Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance with restrictions around 
schools and significant public benefits including license fees 
and safety standards. 
A
Study session(s) with Council to explore legal options, receive policy direction.   Draft 
ordinances:  (1) Zoning amendment ‐ land use permit and allowed zones; (2) regulatory 
permit framework to screen and select applicants.  
Currently conducting legal research.
55 Develop portfolio options for sustained enhanced revenues
A
If there is community support for and Council direction to move forward with a revenue 
measure, draft an ordinance to append/amend the SMMC and a resolution for the ballot 
measure.
Results of a statistically reliable community survey presented to Council in May 2022. Council 
directed staff to move forward with an RPTT ballot measure for November 2022.
Economic 
Vitality
Commercial/ 
Retail Districts
Financial 
Sustainability
6
10 of 14

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 22-6620
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
October 03, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Boards and Commissions Policy Considerations and Campaign Finance Dashboard Review 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide policy direction for matters concerning Boards and Commissions including compensation and qualifications for 
service, as well as adding two youth ex officio seats to the Parks and Recreation Commission; amend the governance of 
mayoral succession to reflect adoption of elections by-district; and receive a presentation on the City’s newly released 
campaign finance dashboard.  
BACKGROUND:
The City is integrating equity and inclusiveness into all aspects of our operations. In particular, the City’s Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion (DEI) Task Force has been tasked with developing recommendations  to diversify representation on Boards 
and Commissions. In addition, the City Council directed staff to examine ways to increase youth participation and 
representation on Boards and Commissions. This staff report seeks to obtain direction from Council by providing 
recommendations from the DEI Task Force and offer best practices in diversifying representation on Boards and 
Commissions from other municipal agencies within the State of California.
Compensation for Boards and Commissions:
Section 6.06 of the San Mateo Charter provides that: “members of such boards and commissions shall receive no 
compensation for their services as such, but may receive reimbursement for their actual and necessary expenses 
authorized by the city council and incurred in performance of their duties of office upon presentation of verified claims 
therefor on uniform forms to be prescribed by resolution of the city council.”
At its May 2022 meeting, the DEI Task Force recommended providing compensation to Boards and Commissioners, whilst 
providing the option for appointees to opt out of receiving compensation. The primary reason was that participating on a 
Board or Commission is an intensive time commitment and not all members of the community are able to donate their 
time without receiving some compensation for it since it meant they might have to forgo hours of work to participate. The 
DEI Task Force did not provide a specific recommendation on which Boards and Commissions should receive 
compensation, or the specific amount. 
Staff performed an informal survey of city agencies within the State of California (summarized in Attachment 1) and 
identified over 21 agencies who stated they provided compensation for service to Boards and Commissions appointees. A 
common theme of municipal agency efforts to provide monetary compensation for services were represented in the form 
of a per meeting stipend, with Planning Commissioners receiving an average of $141 and other Boards or Commissions 
receiving a nominally smaller sum. 
11 of 14

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
A charter amendment would be required in order to allow for compensation for Boards and Commissions, which would 
need to occur through a vote of the general public.
Boards and Commissions Citizenship Requirement:
San Mateo Charter Section 6.05 provides that “[t]he members of all boards and commissions […] shall […] while serving 
possess the same qualifications as required by this Charter for election or appointment to the council.” Furthermore, 
Section 2.01 provides that eligibility for election or appointment to the council requires an individual to be a qualified 
elector and resident of the city.”
On October 12, 2019, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Senate Bill 225, which authorized the appointment of California 
residents, without a requirement for citizenship, to Boards and Commissions in the state. Governor Newsom stated “This 
bill strengthens representation by allowing more Californians to be considered for public service on Boards and 
Commissions based on the merits of their application, and not their current immigration status.” SB 225 makes no changes 
to the competitive recruitment process for Boards and Commission appointments and does not permit the State to 
circumvent federal employment laws. This legislation currently only governs the eligibility requirements for general law 
cities within the State of California. However, charter cities, such as the City of Berkeley, the City of Hayward, and the City 
of Santa Monica have aligned their qualification requirements for service to confirm with Senate Bill 225. 
Similar to the topic of compensation, a charter amendment would be required in order to remove the qualified elector 
requirement for Boards and Commissions, which would need to occur through a vote of the general public.
Parks and Recreation Commission Youth Ex Officio Seats:
At the January 29, 2022 City Council Special Meeting, Council discussed options to expand youth representation on Boards 
and Commissions. A City Council objective for fiscal year 2022-23 is to “research practices in other jurisdictions that have 
youth representation on Boards and Commissions; analyze best practices; develop policy options for implementing 
enhanced youth participation in the City’s decision-making process.” 
After further research by City staff, considering the practice adopted by the City of Belmont, it was determined that, given 
the eligibility requirements governed by City Charter for appointees to Boards and Commissions, the preferred option is to 
add two ex-officio seats to the Parks and Recreation Commission. This action would not require a unanimous vote nor a 
Charter amendment. 
Selection of Mayor:
Chapter 5 of the San Mateo City Council Guidelines provides that: “It is appropriate to base [Mayoral] succession on 
rotation, seniority and election results.” Moreover, “If two or more Council Members are newly elected at the same time, 
the number of votes received in the election determines the position in the sequence, with the new Council Member 
receiving the highest number of votes being the first among the new Council Members.” At the November 8, 2022 General 
Election, the City of San Mateo will conduct its first by-district election, encompassing Districts 1, 3 and 5, with Districts 2 
and 4 scheduled for November of 2024. 
After extensive public engagement and in compliance with State and federally mandated criteria, each City Council District 
was designed to contain a nearly equal population. Table 1 below provides a breakdown of the number of registered 
voters by district, as of July 27, 2022. Currently, District 1 has approximately more than 4,000 more registered voters than 
the district with the fewest number of registered voters (District 2). 
12 of 14

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Table 1: Voter Registration Totals by District (as of July 27, 2022):
District
Registered Voters
1
13,546
2
9,365
3
11,245
4
10,246
5
12,946
Given this development, staff proposes removing the reference to election results within the selection process for mayor 
succession. Instead, similar to section E of Chapter 5, which provides for two or more Council Members who are newly 
appointed at the same time to draw lots, under the new by-district election model, all newly elected or appointed Council 
Members would draw lots to determine succession.
Campaign Finance Dashboard Review
On March 1st, 2021, City Council reviewed the provisions of Municipal Code 2.80 “Contributions and Loans to City 
Candidate Campaigns”. During this study session, with the broader intention to increase public transparency into 
candidate campaign finances, direction was given to staff to develop a candidate finance dashboard. The City Clerk’s Office 
led an interdepartmental scoping exercise and created the Campaign Finance Dashboard with a focus on the November 8, 
2022 General Election. Upon release, the City’s Campaign Finance Dashboard will at that time be the only campaign 
disclosure dashboard available within the County of San Mateo. Staff will provide Council with a demonstration of the 
dashboard during the October 3, 2022 special meeting. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this study session item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Boards and Commissions Compensation Statewide Survey
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
13 of 14

--- page 14 ---
Long Beach
Los Angeles
462,257
Yes
 staff report lists stipend range, with lowest of $50/meeting NTE 
$1,000/year and highest of $200/meeting NTE $7,000/year
Fremont
Alameda
214,089
Yes
Planning - $200/meeting - maximum of $400/month
Santa Clarita
Los Angeles
176,320
Yes
Planning - $227.10/Meeting
Parks, Recreation and Community Services - $169.71/meeting
Arts - $169.71/meeting
Rancho Cucamonga
San Bernardino
165,269
Yes
Planning - $150 
Torrance
Los Angeles
145,538
Yes
$10/meeting paid quarterly; must attend 3/4 of meeting to be paid 
& must take Harassment prevention training every 2 years.
Costa Mesa
Orange
109,960
Yes
Planning - $400 mo 
Parks & Rec - $100 mo
Mission Viejo
Orange
93,305
Yes
Community Services - $100/meeting (NTE $1,200/year)
Investment Advisory - $100/meeting (NTE $1,200/year)
Planning and Transportation - $100/meeting (Max $300/month - NTE 
$3,600/year)
Chino
San Bernardino
77,983
Yes
Planning - $125/meeting
Community Services - $75/meeting
Upland
San Bernardino
73,732
Yes
Planning - $100/meeting (Max $200/month) 
& must complete anti-sexual harassment training.
Chino Hills
San Bernardino
74,799
Yes
Planning - $125/meeting (max 2 meetings/month
Parks and Recreation - $75/meeting (max 2 meetings/month)
Public Works - $75/meeting (max 2 meetings/month)
Lake Elsinore
Riverside
51,821
Yes
Planning - $150/meeting (max 2 meetings/month)
Public Safety Advisory - $100/meeting (max 1 meeting/month)
Diamond Bar
Los Angeles
55,544
Yes
Parks & Recreation - $45/meeting
Traffic & Transportation - $45/meeting
Planning - $65/meeting (2 meetings/month)
Montclair
San Bernardino
36,664
Yes
Planning - $125/meeting (max 2 meetings/month - NTE $3,000/year)
Community Action Committee - $50/meeting (max $50/month - NTE 
$600/year)
Monterey
Monterey
27,810
Yes
Members of following boards and commissions  receive $25 per 
meeting as compensation for their services, not to exceed $75 per 
month: (1) Planning Commission; (2) Architectural Review Committee; 
(3) Historic Preservation Commission; (4) Parks and Recreation 
Commission; (5) Board of Library Trustees; and (6) Museums and 
Cultural Arts Commission.
b.Members of the following boards shall receive $25 per meeting as 
compensation for their services, not to exceed $50 per month: (1) 
Appeals Hearing Board; (2) Building and Housing Appeals Board; and 
(3) Disabled Access Board.
Barstow
San Bernardino
22,639
Yes
Planning - $100/meeting  
Maywood
Los Angeles
27,395
Yes
Planning - $65
Laguna Beach
Orange
22,723
Yes
Planning - $392/month
Design Review Board - $392/month
Arts - $137/month
Truckee
Nevada
16,180
Yes
Planning - (amount not specified)
Grand Terrace
San Bernardino
12,040
Yes
Planning - $50/meeting
Pismo Beach
San Luis Obispo
7,655
Yes
Planning - $50/meeting (no Max)
all other legislative advisory bodies - $25/meeting (no Max)
Escalon
San Joaquin
7,132
Yes
Planning - $50/meeting
(Recreation Commission does not receive stipend)
Irwindale
Los Angeles
1,422
Yes
Parks & Recreation - $175 per meeting, not to exceed one meeting per 
month
Planning - $200 per meeting, not to exceed one meeting per month
Senior Citizen Commission - $100 per meeting, not to exceed one 
meeting per month
City/Town
County
Population 
Boards and Commissions 
Amount
14 of 14