source: packet.pdf
sha256: e526b2ad963bcfa0879f652a620b74e7671e82b4858ab65afc776a15be0cb8ae
pages: 135
ocr_pages: 28
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee
May 31, 2023
4:00 PM
San Mateo City Hall
Conference Room C
330 West 20  Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Stephen Tabler, Chair
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair
Seema Patel
Ginger Slonaker
Dianne Whitaker
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
NEW BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Civic Arts Committee consideration of these items.
1.
Racial Equity Art Project Artist Selection - Recommendation
Select an artist and a preferred design concept to recommend to City Council for the racial equity art project on
the pedestrian mall, and recommend City Council direct the Civic Arts Committee to work with the approved
artist to revise their design in response to the community feedback.
2.
1950 Elkhorn Court Replacement Art Proposal - Approval
Approve the The Lark Public Art Proposal, May 2023 for the property at 1950 Elkhorn Court.
ADJOURNMENT
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
th
1 of 135

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7411
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 31, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Racial Equity Art Project Artist Selection - Recommendation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Select an artist and a preferred design concept to recommend to City Council for the racial equity art project on the 
pedestrian mall, and recommend City Council direct the Civic Arts Committee to work with the approved artist to revise 
their design in response to the community feedback.
BACKGROUND:
In July 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to racial equality and 
equity. The Council discussed the concept of a community mural or other community art project that would reflect and 
promote racial equity and diversity. The Civic Arts Committee (CAC) was directed by the Council to implement the project. 
On November 18, 2022, the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) was released inviting artists to submit their interest in being 
considered for the project. Twelve artists/groups of artists applied and seven were determined to be qualified. A primary 
focus was to invite local BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) artists, from San Mateo and through the greater 
Bay Area. Three of the seven are San Mateo and Bay Area focused, the others are from Southern California and other 
states. The CAC reviewed the qualified submittals and decided to invite all of them to submit proposals, allowing for a 
diversity of concepts to consider. One applicant declined participation due to schedule conflicts. The remaining six 
applicants all submitted proposals.
The following elements were required information in the proposals:
a) A rendering of the design work, including the dimensions of the proposed art area 
b) Identification of the theme of the artwork and a general statement about the design 
c) Description of the key elements within the art design, including any specific meanings 
d) Description of implementation process 
e) Proposed budget that includes the cost estimates of all design, planning, materials, and installation 
The RFQ had no defined limit in the number of designs that could be submitted; the result was twenty-six (26) different 
design ideas from the six artists. 
Public Outreach
Public outreach to the San Mateo community was desired to gather feedback for the CAC to consider when reviewing the 
proposed designs. The intent was to reach out directly to a variety of diverse neighborhoods and locations for direct 
engagement. There were four in-person events to solicit comments and participants were provided with three votes with 
which to identify their favorites. They could distribute their votes in any manner, in no specific order, and they could even 
2 of 135

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
utilize the three votes on one design.
The first event was an art class at San Mateo High School where they utilized rotating groups discussing the designs and 
then marked their individual votes. The second was at Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Center during a time that was 
bustling with families who could participate. It was an opportunity to include children to share their ideas as well as adults. 
The third was on B Street between 3rd & 2nd Avenues during an extended three-hour lunch time. A variety of people 
stopped by to participate including Downtown workers, residents, bicyclists, and other lunchtime visitors. The last in-
person event was at the Parks & Recreation’s Eggstravaganza event at Central Park. There was a large crowd at the event 
and our activity had a lot of families stopping to participate. Participants of all ages at all the in-person events shared their 
interest and excitement about the art project. Many enjoyed looking at all the designs and sharing their voices and votes. 
An online survey was marketed and invited the same opportunity to provide comments and votes for the designs. The 
question posed for each design was “What do you like most about this mural and why?” The survey was publicized and 
shared through City’s social media and newsletter, downtown businesses, Downtown San Mateo News, and QR Code at 
the pop-up events and in the City Hall atrium.
As an advisory body to the City Council, the City’s Community Diversity, Equity, Inclusion (DEI) Task Force also reviewed 
the artists and their designs during one of their meetings. The DEI Task Force is comprised of representatives from local 
non-profits and neighborhood associations and is intended to provide a diverse perspective representing hard to reach 
community members. The DEI Task Force provided their perspectives and identified their favorite designs. 
Attachment 1 includes the full proposals submitted by each artist/artist group and Attachment 2 includes the cumulative 
responses and tallies for each of the designs. The survey had a greater number of comments, so those are listed on a 
separate document for easier reading in Attachment 3. 
Artists, Designs, and Community Feedback
Art is a subjective topic for all and this unique opportunity for the community to respond to this art project has been both 
fun and challenging for participants faced with 26 different options. Each of the designs and themes were appreciated by 
the community participants and designs garnered favorite votes from various community members.  The brief summaries 
below are about each of the artists/group of artists and their top scored design, listed alphabetically as it was presented at 
all the public outreach events.
Rafael Blanco:
Rafael Blanco submitted one design titled “Cultural Pattern” and it is the top choice from the community by a considerable 
margin. Commenters shared it was their favorite because of its bold and vibrant colors, the various patterns and designs, 
and the representation of various cultures in a non-divisive way. There were suggestions from the community to expand 
the design to include other cultures and communities in San Mateo, such as Pacific Islander/API, Japanese, 
Indian/Southeast Asian, Central American such as Guatemalan and Salvadoran, etc. Both conversations and comments 
reflect the desire for inclusive representation of the cultural diversity in San Mateo.
Design Girl Magic (DGM):
DGM, an all women group from the San Mateo area/Bay Area, submitted nine designs. Many of the community members 
thought their design themes were meaningful and intentional but the designs themselves were sometimes difficult to 
interpret. The most favored design from DGM, titled, “Love Sign" included fun flowers, lively colors, and American Sign 
Language (ASL) inclusion.  Some felt it was fun but dated and that the theme was more “peace and love” and less centered 
on racial equity. Many comments for all nine designs spoke to the “open space” left on the street and preferred to see a 
bolder design and the space filled with color.
3 of 135

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Melissa Ghiglieri: 
Melissa Ghiglieri submitted seven untitled designs that were all similar variations of each other, which included various 
hands, hearts, and flowers. Many commenters appreciated how beautiful the artwork was, however, many thought it was 
too detailed for a street art piece and would be better suited for a wall. Many also found it too difficult to understand the 
meaning of the theme and felt it was disconnected from racial equity. 
Dylan Hararah:
Dylan Hararah, who is a local artist from San Mateo, submitted five untitled designs that all connect to the local 
environment. Many commenters found the design with the California Condor and wildflowers beautiful and overall, really 
enjoyed the design. However, many found that this design and the others he submitted spoke to environmental protection 
and not racial equity.
Chelsea Hart:
Chelsea Hart submitted one untitled design that included lots of colors, shapes, and symbols. Many commenters enjoyed 
the bright colors and whimsical design. Children were especially attracted to the design saying the design felt fun and 
cheerful with various happy colors. Others felt it was too cartoonish and overpowered the landscape and architecture of 
Downtown. The design also included various hands and arms and comments felt like those symbols and shapes are 
overused and unoriginal. Others felt like the design did not align with the racial equity theme.
Simón Malvaez and Juan Manuel Carmona:
Simón Malvaez and Juan Manuel Carmona, an art duo based out of San Francisco, submitted three designs for the 
community to consider. The most favored design of the three is called “Lines, Eyes & Feathers”. Comments enjoyed the 
bold and vibrant colors and cohesion of the design; they believe the artists were intentional about their design, theme, 
and placement of the art piece. Some commenters liked the sharper, geometric lines and it would look good on the street. 
Some shared perspectives indicating that the design felt it was singular in masculine representation and not welcome to all 
genders, and others felt the fists spoke protest that was not representative to individuals and the community when the 
desire is to be inclusive. All of the proposals from this team included the crosswalks at each end, which are not approved 
for any San Mateo crosswalks, but it was suggested to integrate those elements more visibly in the street images. 
Next Steps
Given “Cultural Pattern” was the preferred design from the community by a great margin, staff recommends the CAC 
select Rafael Blanco as the artist to recommend to City Council. If City Council approves of the CAC’s recommendation, CAC 
will work with the artist to revise his design to reflect the community feedback received, such as including additional 
cultural segments suggested by the public. City Council may also offer additional comments for the artist to consider.
Amended Selection & Approval Process
Due to some changes in meetings and to maximize community feedback opportunities, the selection process has been 
modified as follows:
Civic Arts Committee
1.
CAC reviews the community comments and recommendations.
2.
Discuss the designs and the artists’ proposal submittals and recommend an artist and preferred design concept to 
City Council for approval.
3.
Request City Council to direct the CAC to:
a.
work with the approved artist to revise the design in response to the feedback, and 
b.
approve the revised final design and budget.
City Council
1.
City Council approval of the CAC’s recommendation of the selected artist and design concept
2.
City Council directs the CAC to approve a revised final design and budget for implementation.
a.
Based on the final design budget amount, the agreement will be executed in accordance with City 
purchasing policy.
4 of 135

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Arts in Public Places (AiPP) Fund balance is $999,000, with $500,000 already allocated to the program budget, the 
funds are available for the racial equity art project. With consideration for future activities of the AiPP program in planning 
stage, this project shall not exceed currently allocated funds.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Racial Equity Art Project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Submitted proposals
Att 2 – Community outreach comments & cumulative vote totals
Att 3 – Survey comments
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
5 of 135

--- page 6 ---
aoe s
Seine 1 His

4 9 openers ye’ os
“ . «pe eT:

iY aecmne aS

4 ; - »
VA g

Bisa gti UA CTA ial ‘LiL



--- page 7 ---
CONCEPT
Implementation of a public art street mural on the pedestrian
mall in San Mateo, CA. The purpose is to beautify and create a
vibrant environment that encourages all types of families to
come out and walk.
7 of 135

--- page 8 ---
al ‘ oh
eee -—
ol
a
= — ~
: ae
~~. >
~ ~
_ ~
b~ » me, —
Aa, i
~ ee 2
= — =~ —. =
~~ Nt

8 of 135 -


--- page 9 ---


--- page 10 ---
Public Art Street Mural San Mateo CA
CULTURAL PATTERn (design)
75’
15’
Cultural Pattern (Design)*
Rafael Blanco
Pedesterian Public Art Street Mural
City of San Mateo, CA
* Even though this proposal is for 75’ x 15, the design can be accommodated and transformed into any desired length (like 150’ x 15’ or 300’ x 15’)
10 of 135

--- page 11 ---
irate EUR



--- page 12 ---
Public Art Street Mural San Mateo CA
theme of artwork
I remember the cultural sock I faced when I came to this country for the first time. I was confused and lost in many different
ways, including the language. However, what it fascinated me the most from the very beginning was the great cultural diversity
this country has. Each of the countries I have been until them, including my own, had one main culture. People followed the main
traditions passed through earlier generations. But the US was definitely different!
When I encountered this ‘melting pot’ of ethnicities and religions inside the same borders I was surprised and inspired to learn
not only about other cultures, but their assimilation and adaptation to the American culture. I was born in Spain, my wife is from
Mexico, and our kids were born in the US. I live cultural diversity and assimilation every single day, and today, it has become part
of my own identity.
Cultural Pattern (Design) is a celebration of different cultures and their unification into one. It is a visual representation of the
cultural diversity we face in the US, which is a beautiful idea, but as we know, it is also difficult. This is an attempt to unify us so
we can continue living instead of the same roof, on the same ground, and learning from each other’s cultures.
CULTURES REPRESENTED:
MEXICAN
NATIVE AMERICAN
ARABIC
CHINESE
AFRICAN
EUROPEAN
Even though San Mateo has many more cultures, from my years living in the Bay Area, these are what I experienced to be the
most represented and which can embrace every other culture, traditions and religions.
12 of 135

--- page 13 ---


--- page 14 ---
Public Art Street Mural San Mateo CA
materials
Mural will be implemented within the EVA lane on B St. between 1st and 3 Avenue. The paint brand StreetCoat
(waterborne epoxy-modified acrylic) will be used to paint the street mural. This coating has sand mixed into it
to be anti-skid and it will last for about 10 years.
SCHEDULE
The implementation of the mural will take approximately about 1 week.
BUDGET
15’ X 75’ (1,125 sq/ft) Street Mural
MATERIALS $3,750
TRAVEL & ACCOMMODATIONS $1,500
MURAL IMPLEMENTATION ($ 22 sq/ft) $24,750
TOTAL $30,000
14 of 135

--- page 15 ---
DESIGN
PROPOSALS
FOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE
B STREET
RACIAL EQUITY MURAL
PRESENTED BY
15 of 135

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
2
About Us
We are Design Girl Magic — a creative 3-person team, based in the San Francisco area, with over 20 years of collective experience
creating art — in the corporate arena, public sector, and as freelance fine artists. We are strong, talented, and complex women of color who
live and breathe art. We collaborate to create. We are visionaries who work to tell stories and strive to promote community engagement and
awareness through what we create. Our approach to large scale projects involves brainstorming, research, community outreach, and
planning. We feel it is important, not only to create a beautiful aesthetic, but also to fully understand the project’s objective and successfully
convey the intended message.
Contact Us: Val@DesignGirlMagic.com
1670 S. Amphlett Blvd
Bayshore Business Commons
Suite 214-19, San Mateo CA 94402
650-787-2225
Valerie Margolin, Founder
Founder, Valerie Margolin, has a Bachelor of Fine Arts and
BGD of Graphic Design from Rhode Island School of Design.
She has been working as a creative since receiving her
Insiya Dhatt
degree in 1993. Originally from Detroit, Valerie hails from an
exceptionally creative and musical family. Concert dates and
Insiya Dhatt graduated with a Masters in
Banking & Economics from Sydenham
College of Commerce and Economics
studio sessions often meant long hours on the road — providing
Val with childhood experiences which shaped her love of travel as
an adult. Valerie thrives on learning about the places she has visited.
And she loves any opportunity to incorporate elements from her travels and
experiences into her work. Some of her favorite mediums are: paint (acrylic, oils,
watercolor), ceramics, linocuts, block printing, knitting and macrame. Currently, her
artistic focus has been on surface design, illustration, and large scale murals.
and she also earned her diploma in
Commuter programming - C++ from
NIIT. Insiya spent her initial career as
Technology Consultant for major
Insurance and Energy services. In
1999, she moved to San Francisco and
started building e-commerce websites;
overseeing the User Experience and design of
early sites for Nordstrom and Adobe. She eventually
transitioned into managing budgets and e-commerce teams
of 50+ people for various retailers like Sephora. Insiya is our
“artistic late bloomer” — having only begun her creative
practice in 2015. She is a natural artist with an extraordinary
eye for beauty and design, movement and light. Some of her
favorite mediums are Photography, Paper Cut art, Letterpress,
Linocut printing, and Watercolor painting. In 2017, she began
her journey in Book Arts. And in that short time, she has
become a published collaborative artist and author on
numerous art-driven publications—some of which have
become part of collections at notable Universities such as,
MIT, UC Berkeley, RISD, and Emory.
Cristina Chavez
Cristina Chavez is a graduate of California State University, San
Bernardino with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Art — Graphic
Design concentration. She has been a working Graphic
Designer since graduating in 1996. In 2020—in the midst of a
pandemic, Cristina made some major life changes. She got
married, moved from Southern California to the Bay Area with
her husband, and took a huge leap of faith—leaving the
stability of a graphic design position in the corporate world, to
embrace her inner Fine Artist. Some of her favorite mediums are
paint (acrylics and watercolors), resin pour, Zentangle, pattern
design, and collage. Her ultimate goal is to evelop a unique and
recognizable style in the world of public art.
16 of 135

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
3
Radiate Hope
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Radiate Hope — This design is one long art piece which can be mirrored or flipped to
accommodate larger spaces. There is a central deconstructed “sun” shape that can be
expanded upon and used as a focus when this art is used as a longer piece.
Proposed Street View 2
Radiate Hope features caring hands giving attention, agency and hope to those they uplift. The
hands of many colors are able to give the circles a lift towards the central sun, where they are
able to expand and show their full potential. The artwork leads you along a path towards the
central sun shape, having the observer walk along the same journey as the lifted circles. This
bright and inspiring piece speaks of supporting and uplifting all within our community towards
a common place of warmth and growth.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
17 of 135

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
4
Reaching Equality
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Proposed Street View 2
Reaching Equality —This design is one long art piece which can be mirrored or flipped to
accommodate larger spaces. The piece has a series of sun patterns that can come together to
create a center focal point of a sunrise that can be the focus of the location it is installed.
Reaching Equality is a mural made up of brightly colored sunrise and starburst patterns pieced
together behind arms reaching for the central sun. The arms represent all people working
toward the future and bright horizons. The overlapping of the patterns in the background can
be “tiled” to continue the design along a longer path. The outreached arms lead the observer
down the path towards the central sun, giving them the feeling of also grasping towards hope
and a brighter future. When all people are able to reach their “sunshine”, we all are able to rise.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
18 of 135

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
5
Equality Evolved
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Equality Evolved — This design is one long art piece which is designed to give the observer the
tools to help aid equality efforts within the community. The piece is made up of multiple motifs
that can be configured to other sizes for use separately or as a whole.
Equality Evolved is a long artwork made up of 10 “equality motifs” created by hand gestures and
Proposed Street View 2
faces with hand drawn text. The artwork was created to take the observer on a journey, giving
them the tools they need to help aid equality within the community. Each of the meanings behind
the motifs is given with a special gesture, explaining things like: stop supporting incidents of
inequality, listen to all voices, seek out differing voices, uplift and support the underserved,
become a bridge to assist our community, do your best to include, amplify and champion voices
when possible, then protect and strengthen all voices. The artwork would teach those observing
to be more aware of these possible situations and help them understand how to make changes
that will move us all forward towards better understanding.
Proposed Street View 3
Proposed Aerial View
19 of 135

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
6
Created Equal
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Created Equal — This design is a modular repeat pattern and can be modified to fit several
other block sizes. Due to the artwork’s limited color palette, it can be executed in multiple
colorways along the expanse similar to a tiled walkway.
Proposed Street View 2
Created Equal is a mural of a repeating pattern, made up of various sizes of equal signs filled
with a collage of different shaped, sized and colored hands. The equal signs quite literally
evoke the idea of community equality, symbolizing working together for the good of all. With
this design we’re proposing to ask the community to send us images of their uplifted hands
to be used as part of the final mural. We’d collect the images, outline and create templates,
then add them into the final collaged hand shapes of the mural. The final artwork will include
these submitted hand stencils of members of the SM community, fostering a feeling of
ownership and encouraging community engagement.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
20 of 135

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
7
Our Chance to Shine
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Our Chance to Shine — This design is one long art piece which can be mirrored or flipped to
accommodate larger spaces.
Proposed Street View 2
Our Chance to Shine is an artwork that symbolizes the interconnectedness of our
community and speaks of how equality gives all people the chance to shine when they are
all included. The image consists of 4 hands championing the connected “people” dots in the
common “family tree.” Each dot on the tree is able to glow and shine when given the
opportunity by the community. It’s an uplifting piece that shows how all people can come
together and bring out the best in each other when each is given agency.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
21 of 135

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
8
Hands of Diversity: A Mural for Racial Justice
Proposed Street View 1
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Proposed Street View 2
Hands of Diversity: A Mural for Racial Justice — The mural showcases a variety of skin tones
representing the many different races and ethnicities that make up the community of San
Mateo. The vines, which are woven throughout the design, represent the growth and expansion
of community connections that can occur when we come together in solidarity and support for
one another. The colorful mural showcases Black Lives Matter symbol at the center surrounded
by colorful circles is a message of unity and hope that encourages viewers to come together in
solidarity and support for racial equality.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
22 of 135

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
9
Proposed Street View 1
Growing Unity
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Proposed Street View 2
Growing Unity — In this design, hands are prominently featured throughout the mural,
symbolizing unity, caring, and connection. In addition to the hands, the mural also
incorporates vines and foliage that intertwine and grow throughout the artwork, symbolizing
the importance of nurturing and cultivating connections between individuals and
communities. The background of the mural is a colorful and dynamic blend of shapes,
symbolizing the beauty and richness that comes from embracing our differences.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
23 of 135

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
10
Proposed Street View 1
Imagine Harmony
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Proposed Street View 2
Imagine Harmony — With this piece, we drew silhouettes of people of different genders and
races and inlayed each silhouette with a phrase or concept that promotes racial equity. With
phrases such as, “Be Culture Curious” and “Celebrate Our Differences” we seek to invite the
viewers to learn about other cultures and encourage inclusivity despite differences —
concepts we hope viewers will take with them long after they’ve walked passed the mural.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
24 of 135

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
11
Proposed Street View 1
Love Sign
Proposed Size - 15’ x 300’ (4,500 sq. ft.)
Proposed Street View 2
Love Sign — As artists, we are drawn to bright colors and fun movement within a piece.
With this piece, we use a fun floral motif that will form a curvy path along the EVA walkway.
Interspersed among the flowers will be circles with drawings of hands — some will be
spelling out words like “LOVE” using American Sign Language and other circles will have
drawings of hands creating well-known signs like “Peace” and “Love”. With this design we
hope to attract the community with fun colors and a design that will might teach a little ASL
along the way.
Proposed Aerial View
Proposed Street View 3
25 of 135

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
12
The Implementation Process
Supply Storage
We will rent a lockable storage pod large enough to store our materials
and supplies for this project — ie: 5-gallon paint drums, tools,
generators, consumable supplies, and other rental items. The pod will
serve as our “base” or “Mission Control” for the duration of the project.
We will be requesting assistance from the Arts Committee in obtaining
any necessary permits required by the city and finding a safe location
for the storage pod to be kept.
Preparation
Prior to painting, the street will need to be properly power washed,
degreased, and hot-flushed.
We have contacted a Bay Area power washing service to gauge the
cost, lead time, and other possible requirements for cleaning. So far,
we have been advised that the area will need to be blocked off from
pedestrian traffic and the team will need access to a water source—
such as a fire hydrant or meter—to refill their tanks during the
washing process.
do a smaller area, all of our designs are resizable and we can adjust
the supply projections accordingly.
Painting
In our proposal, we have pitched 9 different designs — all intended to
span a full block (4,500 sq ft). All of the projected materials mentioned
herein are with that square footage in mind. If selected, and asked to
As this is an outdoor project, we will need access to electricity and safe
areas for generators to charge any tools and equipment, as needed. Per
the recommendations provided in a memorandum dated 11/7/2022, we
have decided to use StreetCoat by Pattern Paving Products. According
to a quote in the memorandum by a StreetCoat sales representative, if
the surfaces are properly prepared, and three coats of the product are
used, the artwork should last from 7-10 years, with relatively low
maintenance. This particular paint is said to have a “sand additive,” so
the completed surface will be non-slip — which is optimal for pedestrian
safety during inclement weather. For longevity and durability, we plan to
apply three coats of the product, as suggested by the sales
representative. All coats will be applied by soft broom brushing, with
ample time for drying in between. Design elements and complex details
of the mural will be refined by hand with paint brushes, soft brooms, and
lamb rollers, etc. over the three base coats.
26 of 135

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
13
The Implementation Process
When designing these murals, we focused on the main color
swatches that were provided in the PDF, but we will use the option to
create specific Pantone colors as needed. The colors we use will
depend upon the availability of the epoxy kits. The mural color
palettes range from about 6 to 11 colors. And we estimate needing up
to 20 5-gallon kits to cover the space.
Manpower
The creation of a custom mural as large as this will take quite a bit of
time and manpower to execute. Our initial phase will involve
transferring the design onto the road surface. We have many
resources at our disposal to execute this — ie: short-throw projection,
chalk markup, custom-cut stencils, etc. The goal is to sketch out or
map out the design in sections.
and labor this may take to complete. We envision a team of 12
Once the foundation of the design has been laid out, we will assemble
a team of painters to assist us in laying in the colors. We have
consulted with fellow artists to help us determine the amount of time
people, working 6-hour shifts. Barring extreme weather issues or
supply/material delays, we anticipate this project could take up to a
month to complete.
Community Engagement
If possible, close to the start of the project, we would like to host a
Community Paint Day —invite major community leaders and our Arts
Council and members of the San Mateo community to join us in our
first push to get the project going. By welcoming people and inviting
them to lend a hand in the creation of the mural, we hope to foster
engagement, ownership, and pride in the City of San Mateo.
Documenation and Promotion
At the completion of the project, we will create a social media
package with photography, drone footage and video to help not only
document this amazing piece, but also help promote it to the
community and press.
©2023 DesignGirlMagic
27 of 135

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
14
Scope of Budget
This is an estimate created for the Design Girl Magic proposal
submitted for the CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE
— B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL project in 2023.
4,500 Sq. Ft. to be painted in the blocks between 1st street and 3rd
along B Street.
All category costs below are approximations based on current
research.
This budget estimate covers the current parameters of the project for
any of the 9 different design directions we have presented for the
project, with our intent to be able to complete the project as explained
below. While each of the visual design directions are different, they
are all implemented in a very similar manner as far as cost is
concerned. We are pitching all of the 9 designs as spec’d for a full
block treatment at 300’ by 15’ (4,500 sq. ft.) to be completed in epoxy
polymer product StreetCoat. Normally, when pitching for murals, we
are only asked to create the artwork in one coat of paint, which often
is requested to have a special anti-graffiti coating (added at an
additional fee). In this instance, we are using a very special paint
product which has to be applied in a very specific way in order to
insure the longevity of the final Artwork.
Design/Artist/Project Management/Production/
Copyright/eRegistration Fees: $101,500
For all Visual Design Work, Design Revisions, Fabrication, Planning,
Project Management and all aspects of production for Completing Final
Artwork. All work associated with Contract Labor and Community
Engagement. eCO Registration, unlimited licensing and Artwork
Copyrights are granted upon completion of the project.
Contract Labor/Insurance/Worker’s Comp Fees: $52,520
9 people team to work for 160 hours to complete this project with 3
lead designers. We estimate 4 sq. ft. of 3 coats per person, per hour, at
it’s most efficient. That number changes due to weather, unforeseen
supply issues and other factors.
This StreetCoat product has a non-slip sand additive as well as other
waterproof properties. The installation requires us to cover the art
area with 3 layers of paint to complete the entire project which
essentially means that our team will have to paint the entire artwork
three times to insure proper longevity and installation of the product.
This turns our project into a 13,500 sq. ft. artwork with very specific
installation requirements.
We’ll be training the team on all products and tools, provide insurance
and give a fair payment package, secure Safety and Photo Release
Waivers, complete 10-99 processing, payroll, utilities and supplies as
well as all internal office prep. Includes California employer liability
insurance and worker’s comp fees for 12 people for the entire duration
of the project.
Comprehensive research has gone into finding a workflow that will be
most efficient for our team to complete this project, and we hope to
show you that we’ve deeply considered as many aspects as we could
when creating this estimate for you.
We hope to add Community Involvement/Community Painting Days,
but don’t think this will greatly impact the project timeline.
Materials, Equipment and Supplies: $32,900
Project Description
Supplies for implementation on site including brooms, buckets,
brushes, tarps, making tape, masking papers, stencils, ladders, knee
pads, cleaning cloths, towels, brush cleaner, degreaser, power cords,
measuring cups, strainer, lamb rollers, roller trays, roller extenders,
Objective — Create a mural speaking on the theme of racial equality
for the community of San Mateo. The 300’ x 15’ asphalt mural will be
painted in StreetCoat Polymer on B Street in San Mateo CA for the
SanMateo Civic Arts Committee in the summer of 2023. The project is
28 of 135

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO | CIVIC ARTS COMMITTEE — B STREET RACIAL EQUITY MURAL — DESIGN GIRL MAGIC PROPOSAL
15
Scope of Budget
plastic wrap. Container Rental, Power Washer, Backpack Blower,
Power Generator, Paddle Drills, Angle Grinders, Dollys and larger
equipment. Includes any delivery fees or shipping for materials to site.
StreetCoat Paint Polymer - 6 to 20 kits in standard and custom colors
to cover 13,500 sq. ft. with needed additives and non-slip properties.
Mateo Civic Arts Committee in the summer of 2023. The project is
2,250 Sq. Ft. to be painted in the blocks between 1st street and 3rd
along B Street.
We would be adjusting the time needed to complete this artwork from
about 1 month to less than 3 weeks for the smaller ½ block size of
2,250 sq. ft.
Site Preparation, Site Safety, City Fees and Permits:
$59,700
Total Estimated Budget for ½ block (2,250 sq. ft. final
artwork): $135,652 (60.29 sq ft)
The StreetCoat product requires special surface prep for the product to
adhere and provide longevity of the artwork. Safety equipment and
personnel, rental or transport of barriers, stanchions and such to
provide safety to all workers. Payment of any needed permits and other
city fees associated with the site and operations. Payments for any
safety services.
Taxes: $21,000
Taxes for all contract workers, supplies, services, equipment, city
regulations and materials.
Photography/Drone/Video, Press/Media Kit and
Documentation Expense: $3,700
Proposal includes all costs for professional documentation of the
process with the intent to create final Social Media Press Kit for the
Civic Arts Committee designed by DGM.
Total Estimated Budget for full block (4,500 sq. ft. final
artwork) : $271,320 (60.29 / sq ft)
For ½ block —
Create a mural speaking on the theme of racial equality for the
community of San Mateo. The 150’’ x 15’ asphalt mural will be
painted in StreetCoat Polymer on B Street in San Mateo CA for the San
©2023 DesignGirlMagic
29 of 135

--- page 30 ---
Racial Equity Mural Proposal
City of San Mateo
03.24.2023
─
Melissa Ghiglieri
541-531-1240
mel.ghig@gmail.com
www.melghig.com
30 of 135

--- page 31 ---
Design
As I was looking at other asphalt projects, I noticed that there were a lot of bold designs
and simple imagery. My style tends to be more realistic so I created several design ideas of
varying complexity, but all with a similar meaning. I may have to simplify the designs a little
bit to ﬁt the medium of asphalt paint, but the basic message remains intact.
Since all my designs include ﬂowers, here is a list of the types and their meanings:
King Protea: This is not only the national ﬂower of South Africa, but also a sacred ﬂower to
many African cultures. It symbolizes diversity and strength.
Sunﬂower: One of the most important crops in Native American gardens. Symbol of
courage.
Pineapple Sage: Symbolizes healing in Mexican cultures.
Blue Delphinium: Dignity
Purple Hyacinth: Repentance, forgiveness
Blue Star: Endurance, determination
Lotus: Important in many Asian cultures, but generally represents purity or enlightenment.
Periwinkle: Important to enslaved African Americans. It still persists over many of their
graves today and represents their endurance and powerful legacy.
Rosemary: Remembrance, commemoration
My most elaborate design features an anatomical heart, various ﬂowers with many cultural
meanings, and two hands of diﬀerent skin tones (which can be modiﬁed if necessary).
Rather than a black and white dichotomy, I intended to convey the idea of diversity and
inclusivity. The thread, which binds the hands together, represents our interconnectivity as
humans. It weaves through the ﬂowers and the heart, emphasizing our mutual pursuit of
racial equity and common goals. The gold circles with emanating rays further adds to the
feeling of interconnectedness between the two sides of the mural.
The next design features a combination of hands and ﬂowers, presenting a more simpliﬁed
version of the concept, albeit with the same underlying message. The third design portrays
a woman with blooming ﬂowers, showcasing a twist on the original theme. Additionally, I
have included several background color options to provide further versatility to harmonize
with the color aesthetic surrounding the space.
Finally, I included a more simplistic design, utilizing the primary colors of tribes of the
people in the Angola region in 1619, the ﬁrst people to be sold as slaves by the Portugese
and put on ships to America.
Note on dimensions: These designs are very ﬂexible. They can be modiﬁed to ﬁt the desired
space.
31 of 135

--- page 32 ---
Implementation
I intend to use a grid system to layout the design and they execute the mural with the
suggested epoxy-modiﬁed acrylic paint.
Budget (estimate)
Materials
Epoxy-modiﬁed acrylic paint- 1000-2000 (depending on area)
Misc (brushes, rollers, tape, tarps, etc.)- 1000
Travel
Lodging- 1590
Fuel- 270
Food- 560
Labor/Other
Prep/powerwash- 300
Artist assistant (maybe): 2000
Licensing/Insurance: 800
Artist labor: approx. 12,000
Total… $20,000 (can change depending on square footage)
32 of 135

--- page 33 ---
33 of 135


--- page 34 ---
34 of 135


--- page 35 ---
35 of 135


--- page 36 ---
36 of 135


--- page 37 ---
& of Sf tda
a

MME A

Liz a

37 of 135


--- page 38 ---
38 of 135


--- page 39 ---
Below are several 
images I took walking
around San Mateo. A 
great way to describe
a city is by capturing its 
landscape in the
abstract. Of course, the 
point of this was
not to take a photo and 
paint a landscape.
The practice of taking 
street photos was to
somehow capture the 
atmosphere of San
Mateo. Bellow are a 
series of colors 
collected
from the images I will 
use these in the 5
version of the mural.
39 of 135

--- page 40 ---
What is 
Changing
?
San Mateo is changing. 
Creating a mural that
encapsulates our 
culture and histor y is ver 
yimpor tant. This photo 
was taken a block from
my house I think this 
exempliﬁes how the 
rap-
id changes in San Mateo 
and the Bay Area are
positive although the 
byproduct of such rapid
change is, some people 
can’t compete in the
rapidly changing 
market.
40 of 135

--- page 41 ---
What is 
The 
Cost?
This city block once had 
a vibrant ecosystem
of small businesses ser 
vicing the community
as well as some housing. 
Unfortunately even a
completely functioning 
market however small
is up for grabs. Are we 
moving too fast? What
sacriﬁces is San Mateo 
willing to make?
41 of 135

--- page 42 ---
What Can 
We 
Envision?
Terraces and farmland 
are amazing metaphors
for what a great urban 
landscape can feel like.
As you can see in these 
images there are many
small farms side by side, 
sharing a larger area.
They have built a small 
ecosystem where
multiple producers are 
growing crops
however the distribution 
of space to each
producer is pretty much 
the same. Of course,
competition and conﬂict 
may exist although,
in the big picture, no one 
producer is taking
all of the market shares 
of land.
42 of 135

--- page 43 ---
What 
are 
some
par 
allels?
Here we have several 
native Califonia wildlife
species. These animals 
are not only native to
Califonia but some of 
them like the Nor thern
Califonia Condor are 
endangered. These
animal species are great 
avatars for what the
people of Nor thern 
California and 
particularly
the Bay Area are going 
through.
San Mateo and the Bay 
Area at large is
expanding ver y fast. 
New companies and
people are ﬂocking 
here with their sights on
creating a new future 
themselves, and the
most audacious of them 
want to create a new
future for the world.
This fast growth has ver 
y severe consequenc-
es for the many people 
who have called San
Mateo home for 
decades. Rising rents 
price
families out of the city 
and rising home prices
force young people to 
star t a new life as
homeowners 
elsewhere. Essentially 
the
process of expansion 
and growth is pushing
out and uprooting the 
native population.
43 of 135

--- page 44 ---
What Does 
a Thr iving
Communit y 
L ook L ike?
Here we have several 
wild Califonia ﬂowers.
Flowers have been 
symbolic of growth and
prosperity in many 
cultures. What they
symbolize in this project 
is the growth and
prosperity of our 
communit y. This means 
that
the people that call San 
Mateo home should
have a safe and non-
precarious foundation to
be allowed to gr ow. The 
less precarious people
are the more they can 
ﬂourish in positive ways
that are meaningful to 
them.
Fur ther more, ﬂowers 
don’t compete to be the
most color ful or most 
beautiful. The healthier
the soil and the 
atmosphere the brighter 
and
taller each ﬂower will 
become.
44 of 135

--- page 45 ---
The 
Proce
ss
Here is the process for 
the ﬁrst option. First
I began with utilizing 
the agricultural terrace
concept for a 
background. I placed a 
yellow
Billed Magpie (a native 
bay area bird) with
our state ﬂower the 
golden poppy. As you 
can
see by the last iteration 
of this design I added
a stream of water to 
symbolize how time has
changed our cit y.
The Yellow Billed 
Magpie is a ver y 
common
bird that can only be 
found in California.
Although something as 
common as the
Yellow Billed Magpie can 
disappear from
the ear th completely if 
its ecosystem is
threatened. We can 
compare that to what
is happening in San 
Mateo. The Community
that we now take for 
granted might 
completely
vanish if we don’t take 
the necessar y steps
to preser ve the local 
businesses
community 
centers and 
housing.
45 of 135

--- page 46 ---
1
2
3
4
5
These examples are the 
aspect ratio of 175’/15’
(half of one city block) 
they will need to be
doubled in length to 
reach (300’/15’).
46 of 135

--- page 47 ---
1
3
4
2
5
These ﬁve concepts are star ting points for 
a more complete design. We will
have the oppor tunit y to ﬁnalize a ﬁnished 
design as the project moves on. Also,
remember that we are painting on asphalt 
so the design will need to focus on
good design sensibility and clar it y. A 
highly detailed illustration may be diﬃcult
to execute on such a rough sur face. Our 
goal is to create a mural that is durable,
long-lasting, and illustrates a strong 
metaphor.
47 of 135

--- page 48 ---
This version of the 
mural depicts a Yellow
Billed Magpie, also 
known as the Califonia
Magpie. The Yellow 
Billed Magpie is a
ver y commin bird that is 
native to Nor thern
Califonia and the Central 
Valley. The stream
of water represents 
movement and change.
The Yellow Billed 
Magpie is fairly common
although it can only be 
found in Califonia.
What the Magpie 
represents in this project 
issomething that 
California may take for 
granted
and can still disappear If 
we are not careful.
48 of 135

--- page 49 ---
The California Garder 
Snake and the Great
Egret are two California 
wildlife Speciﬁed that
inhabit Nor thern 
California and are native
to the bay area 
Speciﬁcally.
49 of 135

--- page 50 ---
This version of the 
mural focuses on 
native
California plants and 
ﬂowers with color full
shapes and lines. This 
version emphasizes
growth, communit y, 
and diver sit y.
50 of 135

--- page 51 ---
Here we have an 
abstract approach 
that
utilizes an abstract 
stream of water to
symbolize movement 
and progress,
abstract shapes 
derived from crop 
lines.
Series of califonia 
wild ﬂowers and the
silhouette of a 
California Condor are 
the
focal points in tis 
version. The Califonia
Condor is an 
endagered large bird 
native
to Nor thern Califonia 
and in this case
represents a 
community that is 
being
threatned by the 
rapidly changing
economic 
enviroment of San 
Mateo.
51 of 135

--- page 52 ---
This version of the 
mural highlights the
Califonia Condor, 
the Califonia Golden
Poppy, and The Sun F 
lower. The background
highlights the organic 
shappes of a teraces to
symbolise community 
and cooperation.The
Califonia Condor is an 
endangered large bird
that once inhabited Nor 
thern California. The
Califonia Condor 
became extinct in the 
wild in
1987. The California 
Condors numbers in the
wild have increased to 
336 in 2022. As San
Mateo natives are 
slowly pushed out and
marginalised with in 
their own city the
Califonia Condor is a 
great metephore.
52 of 135

--- page 53 ---
Total Cos t 
For the 
Projec t
Sur 
face 
Area:
4,500 sq ft = 
$157,500
Additional 
Equipment / 
Supplies :
$3,000.00
Total::
$160,500.00
Sur 
face 
Area:
9,000 sq ft = 
$315,000
Additional 
Equipment / 
Supplies :
$4,000.00
Total:
$319,000
53 of 135

--- page 54 ---
Mural Design 
Statement
Chelsea Hart - Racial 
Equity Art Project
My mural design shows the cultural vibrancy of San 
Mateo and how the community thrives when racial
equity is an important value we uphold. Each person in 
the mural is different in their facial shape, hair,
facial features, and so on, representing the diversity of 
San Mateo.
The color palette ties the unique individuals together, 
representing the equality and strength of a diverse
community. The color palette is bold to represent the 
pride of the individual and their distinct
background while also demonstrating the act of lifting 
one another up and moving in a positive direction
towards racial equality. The visual of hands overlapping 
echoes this and symbolizes acceptance and the
importance of coming together.
I understood the unique challenge of this mural being 
installed on the street, having painted several
murals on the ground. My goal was that the mural 
could be recognized underfoot, no matter which
direction you view the mural. This is why you see 
faces and hands turned in every direction.
Overall, this mural is visually striking with its vibrant 
colors and the overlap of interesting people. It
shows an appreciation of San Mateo’s diverse 
community, and how we can work harmoniously 
together
no matter our differences. I believe this piece would 
enhance the aesthetics of the Pedestrian Mall and
celebrate the diversity of San Mateo. I look forward to 
hearing from the community on this design and
implementing their feedback to make this an even 
stronger work of art.
54 of 135

--- page 55 ---
Mural 
Rendering
Chelsea Hart - Racial 
Equity Art Project
The dimensions of my mural 
are 150 ft long and 15 feet
wide. I’m happy to adjust the 
design both visually and the
size of the mural, based on 
feedback from the Project
Committee and community.
55 of 135

--- page 56 ---
Mural 
mockup, 
View 1
Mural 
mockup, 
View 2
56 of 135

--- page 57 ---
Implementation 
Process
Chelsea Hart - Racial 
Equity Art Project
My mural implementation process consists of four 
general steps: procure materials, prep surface, paint
mural, and document. For this mural, I would use 
Sherwin Williams Heavy Shield. This is a paint stain I’ve
used on previous asphalt murals and it’s brilliantly 
vibrant and long-lasting. This product is meant to go
directly onto the asphalt, without a primer. Please see 
more details on each step below.
1. Procure 
Materials
Once the design is finalized after community 
engagement sessions and meeting with the Project
Committee, I would secure all of my materials such 
as the paint stain, paint rollers, brushes,
paint buckets, etc. I would buy what I could in-store 
and most likely need to place a special order
with Sherwin Williams for the Heavy Shield, as I 
know from experience they don’t keep that
many gallons of Heavy Shield stocked in the store. 
This is also when I would hire and schedule
help for jobs such as power washing the asphalt and 
painting assistants.
Estimated Time: 2 days - 10 days, depending on the 
stock of supplies
2. Prep 
Surface
Before painting, I would like to power wash the 
surface. The surface needs to dry for a full 24
hours before painting. I would also request the 
Project Committee help me with blocking off the
street during this time to avoid anyone walking on 
the surface.
Estimated Time: 1 day
3. Paint 
Mural
When the surface is prepped and the supplies are 
secured, I would start painting the mural by
sketching out the mural shapes with chalk and 
then going over the sketch with light-colored
paint. I measure the area and use a grid system to 
ensure each part of the mural design is in its
proper place. Then, I fill in each shape color by 
color, using a combination of paint rollers and
paint brushes to apply the paint. I continually add 
layers of paint until the mural is completely
saturated and finished.
Estimated Time: 1 - 2 weeks, depending on 
weather conditions and the size of mural
4. 
Docume
ntLastly, once the mural is finished, I document the 
finished piece with photos and videos. In
In addition to this step, I like to create time-lapse 
videos during the creation process of the
mural.
Estimated Time: 1 day
57 of 135

--- page 58 ---
Budg
et
Chelsea Hart - Racial 
Equity Art Project
This budget is based on a mural that is 125 ft x 15 
ft. I will work with the Project Committee to
adjust budget as needed based on final 
size of the mural.
DESCRIP
TION
COS
T
Artist design 
fee
Administrativ
e task fee
Mural 
supplies
$18,0
00
$6,0
00
$3,0
00
$5,0
00
$25,0
00
$6,0
00
$1,5
00
$3,5
00
$7,0
00
$75,0
00
Surface 
preparation
Installation 
costs
Travel
Insurance 
coverage.
Project 
documentati
on
Contingency 
fee
TOT
AL
58 of 135

--- page 59 ---
RACIAL EQUITY 
ART PROJECT
MARCH 
2023
SAN 
MATEO 
CA
59 of 135

--- page 60 ---
Arist


--- page 61 ---
SIMÓN 
MALVAE
Z
I'm a Queer Latino Artist. 
Pronouns: He/His/Him
Simón Malvaez was born in 
Tijuana, a border city of Mexico 
and
the U.S. He studied graphic 
design in Mexico City (Universidad
Iberoamericana). He currently 
lives in San Francisco.
Inspired by the places he has 
lived and The Bauhaus founding
philosophies. Simón takes basic 
materials, familiar shapes, and
primary colors, pastels, and 
metallics to celebrate bodies and
personalities that have inﬂuenced 
him. Latino culture and the
LGBTQ+ community are bold and 
vibrant in all of his work's.
The geometry and composition 
invites you to disassemble each
attribute of the piece and then 
reinterpret the projected symbols
upon the pieces as a whole. It is an 
invitation to appreciate and
deconstruct identity, diversity, 
representation and inclusion.
61 of 135

--- page 62 ---
JUAN 
MANUEL 
CARMONA
Having been born in Texas along 
the Mexican border, raised in
Mexico, and then spending the 
majority of my adult life in the
USA, my work is greatly 
informed by my binational
Mexican/American heritage, my 
queer identity, and the
intersection of the LGBTQI and 
Latino communities of San
Francisco.
I have explored these 
communities and concepts 
through
varied and diverse artistic 
approaches, creating murals, 
posters,
sculptures, and art installations 
that in some way satisfy my
own personal curiosity, respond 
to the immediate context,
honor the message, and impact 
the spectator.
As I continue to explore the 
power of public art, I hope to use
my work to inspire individuals 
with the pride and love that I
feel for my two countries of 
heritage, my LGBTQI community,
and 
to 
bring 
focus 
to 
the 
duality 
of 
millions 
of
Mexican-Americans living and 
traveling between both sides of
this border.
62 of 135

--- page 63 ---
5 relies


--- page 64 ---
MURAL WORK - 
JUANITA MORE! Pride 
2017
493 Sanchez St. San Francisco, CA
JM
C
64 of 135

--- page 65 ---
MURAL 
WORK
540 Valencia St. 
San Francisco, CA
- Blondies 
2020
JM
C
65 of 135

--- page 66 ---
MURAL 
WORK
3158 Mission St. 
San Francisco, CA
- El Río 
2020
JM
C
66 of 135

--- page 67 ---
MURAL 
WORK
3158 Mission St. 
San Francisco, CA
- Residenti
al 2021
JM
C
67 of 135

--- page 68 ---
MURAL WORK - SF 
LGBT Center 2021
1800 Market St. San Francisco, 
CA
JM
C
68 of 135

--- page 69 ---
MURAL WORK - 
POWERHOUSE
Folsom St and Dore Alley - 
. San Francisco, CA
JM
C
69 of 135

--- page 70 ---
MURAL WORK - 
OASIS 2022
298 11th St. San 
Francisco, CA
Collaboration with Simon Malvaez, 
Serge Gay Jr, Elliott C Nathan &
Christopher Mcutcheon
JM
C
70 of 135

--- page 71 ---
osals


--- page 72 ---
PROPOSED 
ART AREA
PROPOSE
D AREA
approx 
11,250 sq ft
EVA lane 15ft x 300ft 
= 4,500 sqft (2)
Crosswalks = 
2,250 sqft
72 of 135

--- page 73 ---
GENERAL 
DESIGN 
STATEMENT
A line is a direct 
connection between 
two
points, and it is also a 
division in space. A line
deﬁnes an element 
and separates it from
others. A line 
becomes the border 
of an
entity or in this case of a 
country.
Having been born on 
the border of the
United 
States 
and 
Mexico 
we 
have
witnessed the duality 
of millions of people
living and traveling 
though it, the 
adversities
suffered by those in 
pursuit of dreams
beyond frontiers and 
the never ending love
to our two countries of 
Heritage.
73 of 135

--- page 74 ---
INSPIR
ATION
As Queer Latinx artists, 
we would like this
project 
to 
revolve 
around 
inclusivity,
diversity and equality. 
We would aim to
tribute the millions of 
stories of POC and
LGBTQI+ in the Bay 
Area while celebrating
our differences with 
a continuous line
throughout the entire 
design.
74 of 135

--- page 75 ---
PROPOS
AL 1
“LINES, EYES & 
FEATHERS”
1ST 
AVENU
E
2ND 
AVENUE
75 of 135

--- page 76 ---
PROPOS
AL 1
“LINES, EYES & 
FEATHERS”
SIGNATU
RE EYES
The proposed treatment for 
the crosswalks consists of
a base layer of paint with the 
colors of the rainbow ﬂag
to continue the ideas of 
inclusivity and diversity. The
second layer is a large scale 
stencil with the iconic eyes
and feathers to integrate the 
design as a master plan.
CROSS
WALKS
76 of 135

--- page 77 ---
PROPOS
AL 1
“LINES, EYES & 
FEATHERS”
DUAL
ITY
DIVER
SITY
PROT
EST
Sun & 
Moon
Male & 
Female
Ying & 
Yang
Gender 
Roles
Eagles
Quetzalco
atl 
as
a ﬂyin
g
feathered snake 
god present
in many 
cultures around 
the
world 
“DRAGONS”
Mex-
America
n
77 of 135

--- page 78 ---
PROPOS
AL 1
“LINES, EYES & 
FEATHERS”
MASTER 
PLAN
78 of 135

--- page 79 ---
[Tey] SIMON JUAN MANUEL
HM i(PH MALVAEZ CARMONA

79 of 135


--- page 80 ---
PROPO
SAL 2
“Familia 
Quetzalcóat
l”
La 
famili
a
Quetzal
cóatl
Moon 
/ Sun
80 of 135

--- page 81 ---
PROPO
SAL 2
“Familia 
Quetzalcóat
l”
Quetzalcoatl is a deity in Aztec 
culture and literature. Among the
Aztecs, it was related to wind, 
Venus, Sun, merchants, arts, crafts,
knowledge, and learning. It was 
also the patron god of the Aztec
priesthood.
81 of 135

--- page 82 ---
(SRE

re
aoreety

[germs naerntnnenement
SS

JUAN MANUEL
CARMONA

82 of 135


--- page 83 ---
OBOSAL 2
Eeamili

JUAN MANUEL
CARMONA

83 of 135


--- page 84 ---
ees

STI SIMON Di uaa mane
HP |PH MALVAEZ CARMONA

84 of 135


--- page 85 ---
PROPOSAL 3 
“Unidad / 
Diversidad”
Key Elements
Jag
uar
warr
ior
Signatur
e Eyes
Eagl
ewarr
ior
Protes
ting
hands
85 of 135

--- page 86 ---
QPOSAL 5
binidac
===Dwversidag?

(i) Meta usecase

(5) Mee en mere tne om

5 Fa
‘
j at
filev tf pO
. 1s ad ( = HM i -
=< ~~ —— ae a
: x ah + -*
A i. L.
Ore an a.
Yay “ OM KATA > i A 4
i

JUAN MANUEL
CARMONA

86 of 135


--- page 87 ---
JUAN MANUEL
CARMONA

87 of 135


--- page 88 ---
Phases |


--- page 89 ---
Design 
Phase
ITEM
Mural 
Design 
Fee
Site 
Visit
COS
T
QUAN
TITY
TOT
AL
$10,00
0.00
$500.
00
1
8
$10,00
0.00
$4,500
.00
$14,50
0.00
TOT
AL
* Mural is proposed as a two phase 
project.
* Each phase is estimated to be 
completed in one month (30 working 
days)
COST & TIMING 
MASTER PLAN
89 of 135

--- page 90 ---
Mural 
Installation 
(Phase 1)
ITEM
Lead 
Muralist
Team + 
Labour
Equipment 
Rentals
Supplies
COS
T
QUAN
TITY
TOT
AL
$10,00
0.00
$22,00
0.00
$3,500
.00
$5,000
.00
$8,000
.00
$1,500
.00
1
$10,00
0.00
$22,00
0.00
$3,500
.00
$5,000
.00
$8,000
.00
$1,500
.00
$50,00
.00
1
1
1
Pai
nt
1
1
Surface 
Preparation
TOT
AL
* Each phase is estimated to be 
completed in one month (30 working 
days)
90 of 135

--- page 91 ---
Mural 
Installation 
(Phase 2)
ITEM
Lead 
Muralist
Team + 
Labour
Equipment 
Rentals
Supplies
COS
T
QUAN
TITY
TOT
AL
$10,00
0.00
$30,00
0.00
$3,500
.00
3,000.
00
1
$10,00
0.00
$30,00
0.00
$3,500
.00
$3,000
.00
$8,000
.00
$1,500
.00
$53,00
0.00
$103,
000
1
1
1
Pai
nt
8,000
.00
1
1
Surface 
Preparation
$1,50
0.00
PHASE 2 
TOTAL
TOTAL 
PROJECT 
COST
* Each phase is estimated to be 
completed in one month (30 working 
days)
91 of 135

--- page 92 ---
Specifcat


--- page 93 ---
StreetCoat is sold in 5 gallon kits. As of September 
2022, a standard color kit sells for $189 each.
Depending upon the color of a custom color, expect 
to add another $15 - $20 per kit.
This works out to approximately $1.25 for three coats 
of application per square foot. For 9,000 square
feet of paint, current shipping costs should be 
expected in the range of $1,200-$1,300.
PAINT 
EXAMPLE
93 of 135

--- page 94 ---
RENT
ALS
Total paint cost including 
shipping and custom colors for
10,000 square feet.
$16,000.00 divided by 2 
phases equals $8,000.00 per
phase.
PAINT 
EXAMPLE
94 of 135

--- page 95 ---
LAYE
RS
Once the surface 
has been properly
prepared we propose 
the first layer to
be applied by 
“bromming” using a 
soft
bristle broom.
The second and 
third layer will be
applied by “rolling” 
using paint rollers.
For the fourth layer 
we propose the
creation of 
massive stencils 
and
tracing/masking the 
design with tape to
later apply paint by 
brushes and small
rollers.
IMPLEMENTATI
ON PROCESS
95 of 135

--- page 96 ---
THANK 
YOU
jmcv165@gma
il.com
www.juanmanue
lcarmona.com
simonmalvaez
@gmail.com
www.simonm
alvaez.com
96 of 135

--- page 97 ---
Community Engagment Feedback
Date:
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
4/4/2023
San Mateo High School
4/5/2023
Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Center
4/6/2023
On B Street between 2nd & 3rd Ave
Artist: 
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes
Comments:
Rafael Blanco (1)
27
Two patterns are labeled continents and is not
consistent with the rest of the patterns. Like the colors
and the designs. Would like to see polynesian, japanese,
pacific islander designs. Like the color scheme but it gets
desaturated at the end (may be intentional). Like that
the patterns represent different cultures. Like that each
section is different. It is cool to see all the cultures
merging into one. Like the patterns but try to extend
curve in chinese pattern. Each pattern can be improved,
for Mexican maybe some folkoric roses or cacti, and
African can also have better patterns/styles. all could
take inspiration from what are seen on clothes/nature.
The patterns could flow better, a "gentle edge" is
missing. The lines between feel a bit abrupt, they should
have smoother transitions.
21
I really love the colors and patterns and how there's
such a variety, it's nice. I like the cultures represented. I
loved the different cultures you put into your design. I
love this one because I walk there.
28
Like the cultural patterns because of the colors. Needs
to be incorporated together; elements need to mix
better together. Like that there are cultural references,
this is something to indicate what cultures are
represented.
DGM (2A)
2
DGM (2B)
Like the color scheme and meaning behind the art. It
also looks really cool from an aerial view.
1
DGM (2C)
1
DGM (2D)
0
DGM (2E)
1
DGM (2F)
1
The color pallet? Does really remind me of nature and
the viney pattern is pretty nice.
5
2
Fists are too controversial -- no fists please.
DGM (2G)
1
The traingle flower like objects represent a flower and
how it grows, just like it's title, "Growing Unity"
1
2G& 2I are absolutely FAB!!!
1
DGM (2H)
2
Like this but not the pattern
DGM (2I)
Like this one but seem to be more about equity rather
than racial equity. Love the colors and how they include
ASL which also includes the deaf community. 2 uses of
"love " feel somewhat redundant.
5
2G& 2I are absolutely FAB!!! I like the flowers & hand
circles (both of us are sisters).
6
Can we combine 2i and 2h?
Melissa G (3A)
2
Florals are nice, however the piece does not convey
racial equity well. It does not scream "racial equity"
1
3
Melissa G (3B)
1
1
1
Melissa G (3C)
2
1
3
Melissa G (3D)
4
7
Melissa G (3E)
4
0
Melissa G (3F)
2
I like the lady has the head with the flowers.
2
Looks a bit creepy, almost like dead people.
1 of 4
97 of 135

--- page 98 ---
Community Engagment Feedback
Melissa G (3G)
4
Its everything, the colors, the florals, and feminine
energy. Also the overall nature vibe and greenery gives a
sense of growth and independence
3
3
Dylan H (4A)
4
All are nice but no signs of racial equality. Cannot see
connection between environment and racial equity.
Very conservation oriented. Racial Equity?? The
connection to our natural world community members is
one that unites all races.
2
6
Will be nice for folks - will get people to think about it.
Dylan H (4B)
2
0
Dylan H (4C)
1
Dylan H (4D)
1
6
1
Dylan H (4E)
1
2
I like the flowers.
5
Chelsea Hart (5)
2
The designs are pretty but don't connect to the prompt.
Does feel more connected compared to others but feels
generic. Like the bright colors and the idea of everyone
being connected however, it is not very unique.
3
I lik ethe colors and designs of the drawing, they look
spectacular.
4
Simon M & JMC (6A)
23
Like the design but not the colors. Like the dragons and
love the crosswalks. Like the different colors and
patterns. Encapsulates the full prompt of racial equity
very well -- explains the signs and communicates the
message clearly. The colors remind one of the LGBTQ
community. Has a nice pattern with multiple
communities included. Has good background to the
images
4
Simon M & JMC (6B)
3
Like the dragons
I like the dragon.
2
Simon M & JMC (6C)
2
The bold words call to attention, but as long as we get
both words, it represents both english and spanish
speaking communities. Overall, very nice.
3
0
Like this but the singular language may be an issue.
What if they include other languages like japanese,
tongan, english, etc.
Date:
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
4/4/2023
San Mateo High School
4/5/2023
Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Center
4/6/2023
On B Street between 2nd & 3rd Ave
Artist: 
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes
Comments:
2 of 4
98 of 135

--- page 99 ---
Community Engagment Feedback
Date: 
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
TABULATION RESULTS
4/8/2023
Central Park
03/29/2023 -
04/11/2023
Online Survey
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes2
Comments:
TOTALS
SORTED
70
The description identifies the different cultures, is there
a way to actually lable them too? Would like Pacific
Islander community included.
101
All survey
comments are on a
different
document.
Rafael Blanco (1)
247 Rafael Blanco (1)
247
0
23
DGM (2A)
25 Simon M & JMC (6A)
85
2
13
DGM (2B)
16 DGM (2I)
72
1
14
DGM (2C)
16 Chelsea Hart (5)
58
10
7
DGM (2D)
17 Dylan H (4A)
48
1
8
DGM (2E)
10 Dylan H (4C)
45
5
3
DGM (2F)
16 Dylan H (4D)
35
6
19
DGM (2G)
28 DGM (2G)
28
4
7
DGM (2H)
13 Melissa G (3A)
28
16
45
DGM (2I)
72 DGM (2A)
25
1
21
Melissa G (3A)
28 Melissa G (3D)
25
3
13
Melissa G (3B)
19 Melissa G (3C)
21
0
15
Melissa G (3C)
21 Melissa G (3B)
19
6
8
Melissa G (3D)
25 Simon M & JMC (6B)
19
9
I love that these pictures reflect our diversity; they
would also be a wonderful mural on buildings.
Melissa G (3E)
13 DGM (2D)
17
9
Melissa G (3F)
13 DGM (2B)
16
Artist: 
Rafael Blanco (1)
DGM (2A)
DGM (2B)
DGM (2C)
DGM (2D)
DGM (2E)
DGM (2F)
DGM (2G)
DGM (2H)
DGM (2I)
Melissa G (3A)
Melissa G (3B)
Melissa G (3C)
Melissa G (3D)
Melissa G (3E)
Melissa G (3F)
3 of 4
99 of 135

--- page 100 ---
Community Engagment Feedback
2
Melissa G (3G)
12 DGM (2C)
16
12
24
Dylan H (4A)
48 DGM (2F)
16
5
9
Dylan H (4B)
16 Dylan H (4B)
16
22
22
Dylan H (4C)
45 Simon M & JMC (6C)
16
16
11
Dylan H (4D)
35 DGM (2H)
13
25
10
Dylan H (4E)
43 Melissa G (3E)
13
19
30
Chelsea Hart (5)
58 Melissa G (3F)
13
22
36
Simon M & JMC (6A)
85 Dylan H (4E)
13
4
10
Simon M & JMC (6B)
19 Melissa G (3G)
12
5
6
Simon M & JMC (6C)
16 DGM (2E)
10
Artist: 
Melissa G (3G)
Dylan H (4A)
Dylan H (4B)
Dylan H (4C)
Dylan H (4D)
Dylan H (4E)
Chelsea Hart (5)
Simon M & JMC (6A)
Simon M & JMC (6B)
Simon M & JMC (6C)
Date: 
Location: 
Date: 
Location: 
TABULATION RESULTS
4/8/2023
Central Park
03/29/2023 -
04/11/2023
Online Survey
Number of Likes
Comments:
Number of Likes2
Comments:
TOTALS
SORTED
4 of 4
100 of 135

--- page 101 ---
1 of 12 
 
 
 
Survey Comments for  
RACIAL EQUITY ART PROJECT PROPOSALS 
 
The comments are short. They are gathered in small groups for easier reading. 
The numbers are in order of the proposals alphabetized by last names,  
and each number references the designs as they present in order. 
1. Rafael Blanco 
Bold, diverse, like the full space filled, like the color mixes. It's colorful and eye catching to draw awareness. Colorful, 
nice patterns. Everything!! Very colorful. Very colorful and racially inclusive. Inclusive, multi-cultural, very colorful, 
patterns are pleasing to the eye. It’s colorful but - meh. Too busy. I love the vibrant colors and the different culturally 
significant patterns! Colorful, artistic, interpretive, cohesive, representative, creative. The mix colors and patterns are 
amazing! Love the celebration of cultures and diversity via patterned art. It’s very busy. Its multiple patterns. It’s very 
colorful. "Visually the mural is fantastic.  It's lively, engaging.   
      
But, it leaves out cultural groups that are significant in San Mateo, such as Pacific Islanders. Also, there are many people 
from South American countries and other Asian countries, i.e. Japan, India. I think the colors are really great and I think 
it will still look good even if it wears over time. Like that it has different cultures represented and very colorful. Would 
have liked to see which cultures were represented here. Vibrant colors and the right balance of abstract and 
recognizable patterns. It's clean and classy. I think the concept behind it is great and it's beautiful. beautiful and love 
the message. Love that it is so colorful and multiple designs  
 
The bright colors and intricate patterns. The color pops! Diversity. Top design is better, and I like the color contrast. It is 
very bold and vibrant. I like to imagery of using patterns to represent diversity. I love this design for it's vibrant warm 
color palette. It evokes a feeling of activity without being too "busy". It's colorful but don't represent me or equity. 
Colorful and represents the diversity of the community. The different patterns and colors. Colors, progressive shapes. 
It's great that the artist is representing many cultures through pattern. The vibrancy is beautiful and will bring life to our 
downtown area. Colorful. It’s aesthetically beautiful and captures all cultures and importantly it fits the heart and 
architecture of B street. It’s pretty but I don’t understand how it represents racial equity. The colors. The blending of 
patterns. Colorful, multicultural. I like the contrasting art styles. That could perhaps be a drawback: too much contrast? 
Beautiful art.  Wrong location.  
 
I liked the design and idea, but I think the message should be more explicit, people could look at it and don't get it. It's 
like a beautiful carpet. Colors are very positive. Representation! Colorful, great multicultural design features! The bright 
colors show the hope and vitality of our City. LOVE it! Way too loud.  Gives me a head ache. The colors and the balance 
of cultures and diversity represented. The design is inclusive, colorful, but not too much on the eye. Bold design that 
doesn't conflict with architectural vibe of the street. I like the blending of the different culture images, although what 
they represent may not be obvious without some text or other additional information.  Easily duplicated for the length 
of the planned area. I like the strong colors and the thought that went into the selection of designs to represent 
different cultures. This concept may need explanation on a plaque to convey the message. That it draws on traditional 
designs reflecting cultures from around the world, each of them visually appealing patterns. It is a relatively low-conflict 
101 of 135

--- page 102 ---
2 of 12 
 
approach. (However, I don't feel the patterns are connected in a meaningful way in this mural, harmonizing the shapes 
and colors; they seem to have been patched together randomly.) So vibrant and full of energy. A beautiful & colorful 
representation. reflects different per. Colorful, happy! I love the color and the designs, and the fact that there are no 
people is probably for the best. Great sense of texture within the patterns. There is a feeling of history. It represents 
diversity, I love the colors and it looks good on the street in that it fits in and does not stand out too much. The colors 
are so vivid. Good colors.  Many cultures represented.  All surface covered. It's bright and includes so many different 
patterns and representations of cultures. Bright, colorful and evokes multiple cultures. It feels like the Bay Area. Various 
patterns, colors, texture. Like the colors and patterns.   
 
Would like to see the pattern for "Chinese" altered to represent the long established Japanese community in San Mateo 
or an all-inclusive "Asian" pattern. Love the color and originality of it being on the street. Very vibrant. Love the colors. I 
like his idea of utilizing visual themes from different continents/cultures. I like the concept, essentially of e pluribus, 
unum -- in the sense of unity in our diversity.  Divisiveness through tribalism is the wrong direction, potential creating a 
fractious society that cannot cohere. Colorful, but veering to jarring, garish.  It would likely overwhelm the street's 
architecture. LOVE the glorious colors and the representation.  Only concern is that the Asian depiction is specified by 
the artist to be Chinese.  San Mateo has a broader Asian population than just Chinese, although it is probably the 
dominant Asian group.  Perhaps the artist can broaden the design choice to encompass the breadth of Asians in San 
Mateo. I like that it is inclusive of all cultures--no screaming in-your-face for one or another. It is visually too strong, 
overpowering the environment. The flooring is cute and nice. I love the different patterns but I feel like the colors are 
too similar and wish it had more variety but other than that I really like it. Bold colors, easy to identify cultural 
significances. Pretty colors. Why are they all ripped up? Vivid colors, shows the diversity of the place. 
2. DGM – Design Girl Magic Collective 
2A: 
Seems a bit disjointed, bland colors. It’s beautiful but I think may not visually translate on such a large surface. It’s also 
very monotone in color and I gravitate towards more bold colors. But still a lovely piece of art. Concept of 
hope/uplifting. It's very interesting and thought provoking while being aesthetically pleasing and conveying a great 
message. Different people in the poc giving and providing to their community is very uplifting and acknowledges the 
hard work and commitment poc contribute to the nation. I love the different shades of brown skin in the hands. Boring. 
Uninspiring. I like the colors but the sun is too abstract. It's nice but the artwork should consume most of the street to 
have optimal impact. There is too much negative space. Don’t like the colors. Colors and the message behind it. Needs 
more color, design isn't that engaging. I think the hands motif is a little overdone. And I don’t like that it doesn’t fill the 
whole space. Like that it has different people holding hands but the design could use more detail and the abstract sun 
on the right looks confusing. I like the orange colors and the abstract sun concept but the hands are a little cliché. Don't 
like that the hands look like fish tails. I like the different colors of human skin. The colors are too mute/tonal. It's got 
potential. it's pretty and hopeful. i like the suns and the message.  
 
Beautiful design and message communicated clearly. Unlike many if the others, the design complements the 
surrounding building landscape vs. Creating a distraction. These designs are harmonious aims speak to the theme 
strongly. It makes me feel like hands are holding the designs together. Colors complement the buildings of that area 
and I like the messaging. I like the fact that the artist has softened the edge of the design through use of circles. Creates 
a relaxed feel for downtown. I can see they have picked up the heritage colors of the surrounding buildings, but does 
that push the color palette enough? Makes the area feel a little too yellow/warm. The message is clear, blending 
modern and meaningful design. I like the concept of all our ethnic groups coming together as helping hands to create a 
more passionate and understanding community. Love the message of uplifting each other. Hard to see artist’s message 
and intent unless seeing it from an aerial viewpoint.  
 
The theme of girl magic. Feels a little spartan. Lovely work. Just doesn't "pop" enough. Lovely art.  Wrong location. I like 
the meeting of this piece. The colors are bland, and you don't get a sense of the hands at street level when walking. The 
idea is beautiful, the colors are beautiful, but I think the message may get lost except from an aerial view. Ugly.  
Meaningless unless to promote racism. The different colored hands and the idea is good. It's okay, what it represents is 
102 of 135

--- page 103 ---
3 of 12 
 
not apparent. I like the way the hands hold the sun shape and the interesting progression of the sun shape. It's a nice 
concept. However, the execution is hard to grasp; from street level, it seems to be just a collection of circles and arcs. 
Love 3 women working together. Too bland. Movement forward. I like the hands of different colors. I don't like the 
design as much as I like the first one though.  
 
This is fun because it doesn't have the rectangular shape. I don't like the colors or shapes. The different color of hands 
and the light. Simple color scheme (limited).  Not "in your face". Strong and relevant message and beautiful design.  
Inspires thought. The message and the art go hand in hand with a positive mindful and empathic path towards 
betterment.  It’s a literal and figurative journey infused with symbolic significance. Would like to see more vibrant 
colors. harder to see the actual design of the mural, but I love the different skin colors on the hands. Better than first 
one shown, as message is clearer.  More subdued color palette suits the street's architecture better.  Might better 
represent spectrum of human color -- black, brown, yellow, white.  Not literally, but in skin tones shown. The concept of 
radiating hope feels too much like we are trying to address some kind of repression of cultures in SM.  However, it is 
similar in concept to the next proposal, which I prefer to this one. The circles are cool----but the hands seem to exclude 
whites? I like that the circular shapes in the mural mirrors some of the architectural features. I like the circles. Cluttered 
design. I definitely like the messaging, but I don't think the image on the street quite translates the message. Love the 
idea. I think it should cover all the street in color. Beautiful proposal displays the strength of a diverse community. 
 
2B: 
Dull colors, patterns. Again, a lovely piece of art but I prefer more color. Not sure people will understand the meaning 
without an explanation. Hands seem sloppy. It looks very nice and has a good message. It’s a little too dull. Horrible 
colors. Nothing I like. Colors are bright. Too many lines and shapes. It's okay but neither intricate nor colorful enough. 
Again, don’t like the yellow. And again very busy. Love the message behind it. Hands - old concept. Needs more color. 
Don’t like the hands and too cartoony.  
 
Beautiful; great message. I like all the colors of human skin. Will love it more if it completely occupies the EVA lane. Not 
colorful enough to stand out. It's got potential, but I prefer more color. It is a little muted for the message. Love the 
positive message. it's happy. represents everyone. Not sure about the hands. Again, complements the surrounding 
landscape and symbolically shows how people of different backgrounds can join to become a stronger ONE.  
 
The colors and theme. Colors work with surroundings nicely. Similar comments to the previous design – not loving the 
color palette. Like the pattern but not so much the giant hands. Like the message. Good design. Not a fan of the colors 
and think the design is to modern for the architecture of the street. Great message. Like the idea and design, would like 
to have seen more variety of color. I like the theme. This one feels more "complete". Nice. Nice art. Wrong location. 
Colors are bland. you don't get a sense of the hands at street view. Nothing positive here.  No!! It's okay, what it 
represents is not apparent. I really like the starbursts and the hands reaching out.  
 
I think this would work no matter which direction you are walking. Nice idea and friendly mood. The design is graspable 
by street-level viewers. I'm not fond of the color scheme, though. Too bland. Looks grabby. It's ok but needs prettier 
colors. Not unique. Good simple color scheme (limited). Hands are powerful symbols.  Message is solid. Great message 
and symbolism! Would like to see more vibrant colors. The design is hard to see and understand, muted colors not as 
vibrant. Graphically far less coherent than the previous variation shown.  Harder to grasp its message. Warm colors---I 
guess I just don't like hands of any kind.  Too trite, dated, done to death.  Think I still like number 1 due to balance. The 
hands, very symbolic. Also cluttered design. I like the color palette because it’s earthy. The sun is inspiring. 
 
2C: 
Don’t like the colors, patterns. Still not as colorful as I would like but it seems the color palette may be the theme 
requested as the last few options all had the same color scheme. I like this one more as it’s very easy to read the 
meaning behind the art. It’s very whimsical and I think children would love it. I like the words, concepts but not the art. 
This is the third design which includes hands, not sure why, but these designs are not as appealing as simple patterns 
that are representative of different cultures. So disconnected. Dislike the use of words. Again, too much negative 
(empty space) and little vibrance of color. Don’t like the writing, hard to read. It’s message of empowerment and 
103 of 135

--- page 104 ---
4 of 12 
 
awareness. Hands -old concept.  Feels like a high school project. Very cheesy. Don’t like the hands and definitely don’t 
like the words written out.  Do not like at all. Like these messages, very clear and straightforward. More color could be 
used here because there is a lot of white space in between each message. Too many words. nice. great message. Too 
much blank space in between. Hard to understand visually from street level view. I really like this one. It is also a little 
muted, the design is really cool and evocative of message of "reaching for unity".  
 
Teaching me about equality. i like the hands and words. nice colors. Like the modern aesthetic and simplicity of the 
piece. Simple but powerful. Color palette is lovely, amplifying the colors of the trees and nature along the strip. Not 
loving the text. Love the idea behind. Some hand graphics are not as neat but I like their symbolic value. Feels and looks 
like it belongs on an elementary school play ground. I like that each hands are symbolic of the words. Love this message 
and the reminders of how we can all do our part.  
 
I like the combination of words and images to help the viewer learn something, encourage them to act/change behavior 
while also providing something of beauty to the City. I like the message. Similar criticism: nice design but feels like it 
could be more filled in. Attractive art.  WRONG LOCATION. The art is more explicit, but still creative! I liked the different 
stages and subtitles. Muted colors not so much, but nice simple message. No.  Don't litter our streets with this racism!  
Nonsense and distracting. I like the sentiment, although the images may lose their meaning when enlarged to span the 
width of the walkway. I like the words incorporated in this design and the way the shapes support/reinforce the words' 
meaning. I like the message, and the earth tones are attractive. I'm not sure it will be "readable" at street level, though. 
I think it would do better on a vertical surface, such as a sound wall. Too bland. positive reminders. I like the idea and I 
do like it but definitely not for a mural in downtown San Mateo. Seems too commercial. I don't like the writing or 
colors.  
 
I like the combination of hands and words. How to make a different. More direct than others.  Prefer design elements 
of a & b. not a fan of the hands and words. Nice symbolism and meaning. Hard to read the words, like the message. 
prefer all color, not gaps of pavement. It's a bit preachy (I'm not a fan of 'inspirational' words painted on room walls, for 
example).  But the flow is good and pedestrians could take in in the bits they encounter or at length.  Might encourage 
walking along to see what follows.  Doesn't need a bird's eye view to take it in quite fully. Hands again---every poster, 
paper, fundraising request has hands.  Boring!  San Mateo has culture ,talent and class--let's try to stay away from trite 
worn out hands themes. I'd like it to cover whole street in color. 
 
2D: 
I like this one a little better with the equal and various hands; colors fills the space. It's hard to see and interpret. Don’t 
like colors, patterns. Too much of one color. artwork needs to be more detailed in terms of demonstrating equality. 
Again, the hand patterns are just not that appealing. Especially if pedestrians are going to be walking on them. 
Mundane. Colors are not lively or engaging, feels heavy. Don’t like the hands; not a big fan of the red color. And a little 
hard to tell what it is on the actual street rendering. Like the concept but looks like there is a lot of white space unless it 
will all be filled by the hands. I do like the idea of soliciting pictures from the community to increase engagement. Looks 
lame. Needs more color or contrast to stand out on the street. having our hands part of it. could see it more colorful. 
cool idea to include everyone. I'm not sure I like the solid color although it actually might look really good on the 
ground. Love the concept of crowds outing the art, symbolically showing unity. I love when the entire space is painted. 
too heavy. Very creative to involve the community. I like the idea of community involvement.  
 
I like the idea but it doesn’t look like equal signs. It has potential but feels like it's just a bit too muted. Good art.  
WRONG LOCATION. Looks like the hands are in prison. I don't get "equality" from the design. Community engagement 
is a good idea, but the final project may or may not look good. Stop wasting money on this racist nonsense.  And 
dirtying up our streets. community participation. Don't care for this one at all. I like the use of the equal signs and the 
hands within them. Clear message and multiple directional. I don't hate it, but I don't care for it. The symbolism of the 
hands doesn't come across, and I find the angular shapes unrestful. Too bland. boxed in. Only one pair of hands 
dominate. All colors should have their place. Personal involvement of neighbors. This reads more abstractly: one has to 
look to discern these are hands, not tree branches or leaves, for example.  But that's not a bad thing -- it's good to 
engage viewer to look carefully.  The equal sign aspect of the motif does not come across particularly. I like the maroon 
104 of 135

--- page 105 ---
5 of 12 
 
color--classy.  Best color of all except number 1.  But tired-out overdone hands again.  Surely we can do culture 
inclusion without hands! I like the idea of having us help with it and using our hands. 
 
2E: 
Like the concept and it fills the space a little better than some others. Don’t like colors, pattern. Design is confusing. Like 
the idea, would have liked maybe a tree as roots for interconnectedness. I really like the pathways. Awful. Not enough 
color or vibrance. Hands -old concept. Not a huge fan of the hands but like the color scheme. Kind of confusing and a lot 
going on. Looks like a circuit board. Art is too large. At ground level it's hard to visualize what it is. It gets a little lost, 
could be bolder. I really like this one also. It is warm and earthy. everyone shines! it's positive. want it bright colors. 
Simple and abstract. I love the colors and design. This artist uses more progressive style and I think these colors would 
look great on B Street. This is elegant, answers the brief. Feel the colors amplify the buildings rather than nature, 
though. I like the message. Do not know if the mural will convey it. I really like this message. The dots look like 
tentacles, unless explained to me, I don’t see the artist’s message. This one is nice! Handy art.  WRONG LOCATION. 
bland colors. looks like tech or neurons, not family tree. No!  Suggest that these "artists" go offer to paint the houses of 
low income people.  Just okay.  The image doesn't tie in with the text explanation of the design.  
 
I like the use of the different colored hands. This would work in multiple directions. Again, a nice idea, but I would not 
have interpreted this design as "our chance to shine." Needs more color. It shows inclusivity and reminds people that 
we're all human, no matter our race. It feels hopeful. I don't like the colors. good message.  like hands & circles. good 
limited palette. Suggestion: balance orientation of hands so they don't all come from one side. Flow invites exploration 
& curiosity. Good message but it reminds me too much of technology matrix which detracts from human component. I 
like the description above but do not see it represented in the mural. Family tree comes across more as a silicon valley 
chip -- nodes and connecting wires.  Not inconsistent with the artists idea of connection, but doesn't deliver that 
message well. Hands again--people are tired and turned off by them--too many, on every fundraising letter, public 
postings, articles...if you don't know what to do to demonstrate inclusion, draw multi colored hands....can't we find 
something better?  Back to number 1 again--the best. The idea is cool, but it needs brighter colors and to fill the street 
more. 
 
2F: 
Like the concept, but too much "space"...think the color should be more bold. Don’t like colors, patterns. The swirls are 
beautiful and the message is strong and clear. So literal. Not artistic. Blah color palette. Too monotone and lots of 
negative space. Love the message, but wish it was bigger. I like this one more than the other hands one but still not a 
fan of all the hands. Simple design that does not maximize the space. Would have preferred to see more. Ratios are off. 
Too much pavement. it is clear for racial equity. i'd like brighter colors. i like the statement of the artist with the vines. 
Too specific. Seamlessly blends into the city and tells a strong story on its own. The theme. Not a good use of the space. 
The vines and smaller hand images look like Cinderella pumpkins. Too open. Handsome art.  WRONG LOCATION. Like a 
path with the vine pattern. Each circle tells a story.  strong "pride" fists. Good theme, some color, but maybe not 
enough color? No! blm.  
 
I like the different skin tones and the vines connecting them together.  Although the interpretation may not be 
apparent. I like the concept behind this design. There's a lot I like about the concept, but I think the clenched fists will 
come across as too aggressive for the community connection and inclusion we want to foster. The closed fist makes me 
think of conflict. Far more interesting that some previous offerings. Too understated. Too many like this -like the racial 
justice message - but prefer full color in mural block - no grey or pavement. Like the softness of the twining vines and 
the postures of most of the hands.  Don't like the jarring contrast in combative or militant fists.  But hey, I remember 
these from the late 60's and they were not associated with expansion of community-wide inclusiveness and tolerance. 
Not big on raised fists. ABSOLUTELY NOT!!  San Mateo is an inclusive, welcoming city--we do not need this kind of 
image.  Get back to inclusion of all cultures. The vines and growing plants are really cool. i'm not sure the fist is okay 
with everyone. 
 
 
 
105 of 135

--- page 106 ---
6 of 12 
 
2G: 
Pattern ok, maybe bigger circles would be nice. I love the circles and variety of colors. I like the light and airy flow, the 
subtle calming affect it has. If that’s a raised power fist in the center emblem I find that off putting, otherwise I like it. 
Black power sign not appropriate. Not enough color and too much negative space. Clean lines. Very pretty, not to 
overwhelming. Not very engaging.  Needs more pop and more color. This one has been my favorite hands one. Like the 
use of more colors and the subtler nature of the hands in white. Similar to the last one, not a lot of artistic elements 
here. For a mural in downtown, I would like to see more of the space utilized.  
 
I like the colors. Too small. Not sure how it represents diversity. Also too much pavement. This is one my favorite 
designs. I love the design and color scheme. The hands are my favorite with these vines. we are connected together. 
Looks like a quilt pattern. Everything. Symbolically Shows the connection of our roots and that we can band together.  
The design complements the landscape cleanly. The patterns. Not only do I love the hands, but I love the splash of 
colors too. Too open. Nice art.  WRONG LOCATION! Stars remind me of a compass not unity. I like designs with color. 
Stop making a mess in our streets. Harmonious design. Really like that it has a center point/image, with vines 
intertwined connecting hands back to the center. I like the use of connection of the vines.  
 
I like the spiral vine design and the embedded circles/mandalas. But I think the execution isn't ideal; the circles feel 
randomly applied, and it isn't clear what the multi-petaled designs within the circles stand for. (Stars? Petals? Compass 
roses? Clocks?) Colorful . closed fists may not be a unifying concept. So much about it is right, but only one raised fist is 
portrayed. Where’s the equality in that? Too understated. Visual appeal.  Colors, flow & message are relevant. Growing, 
blossoming, flourishing - organic design for organic ideal!  Really like this! I like the hands and vines being 
interconnected. Loose the clenched, combative fist, for sure. Otherwise, this is an attractive design: its calm background 
color and openness, or lack of density compared to most of the previously shown ones, promises a better fit in the 
overall streetscape. I’d like it more without the fist.  Nice concept. NO!!NO FISTS!!  This is not the image of inclusion.  It 
is divisive and separating.  Let social media carry those images--not us. The connecting roots are nice.  i really like this 
design better than the other fist. I love the symbolic aspect of the hands! 
 
2H: 
Fills the space, like the concept. The words are good, but it just doesn't feel like it fits the street. Don’t like colors, 
pattern. like the words and the silhouettes of people not crazy about the patterns. Reminds me of wallpaper with cut 
out paper dolls. Not enough color (no vibrance) and too much negative space. Like the pattern. I don't want a lesson 
when I walk down a street. I don’t really like cheesy words, but I like the color scheme. Too many words. The art should 
speak for itself. Zig zag doesn't really look good. Like the phrases that can apply to everyone. I like the intricate 
patterns. Could use a little more contrast. This is really cool to. The message is clear and I love the use of text to 
accompany the warm color palette. i like how it goes down the street with the triangles. i like the message of teaching. 
It's unique and has nice messaging. Would have liked to see more variety of colors. I like the zig-zags.  WRONG 
LOCATION!! a bit heavy handed. Don't really care for this one.  The message is good, but has a limited design that would 
have to be repeated too much through the length of the walkway. I like the wording used and the effort to make it 
relatable from both sides of the street.  
 
I like the message -- although I'm afraid it won't read well at street level. However, it resolves into an appealing abstract 
design. Maybe use 5 different background patterns rather than two, to reflect a global range of traditional designs? 
Preachy. Great messages! Too uniform. More interesting patterns and descriptive words. Public can learn by reading 
the statements on the street like traffic rules. Invite the public to write their suggestions to grow diversity and inclusion. 
Colors chosen should be more upbeat. Not necessary to literally showcase skin tones. Distinctive color portraits will 
represent diversity of people more than generic silhouettes. Direct, but maybe too directive. the words are too obvious. 
Strong idea but like two others more. nice design. If the artists could merge 2.g and this design together somehow or 
incorporate the fisted hands instead of the vague body outlines (which could make some think of  a crime scene chalk 
outline when laid out on a street) into this one it would be perfect. This variation on a previous one -- that had 
exhortative words included among gesturing hands -- steps over the line into too preachy.  We aren't children to be 
spoon fed and condescended to in the realm of public art. Simple, not confrontational, more balanced. i like how it 
makes a shape in the street. very cool. The text is too prominent. it takes over, The images are too simple. 
106 of 135

--- page 107 ---
7 of 12 
 
 
2I: 
I know ASL and I'm in the late boomer baby generation, so I love it for that and the 'flower child' feel. However, I'm not 
sure the next generations would dig it. Colors nice and pattern nice. I love that it has more color. Love the message and 
that it also incorporates sign language. I love that it highlights ASL and is colorful and fun. I love the colors and the 
message! Better colors and cohesiveness, not so overt. This one is more colorful and vibrant. Very pretty and lively! 
Love the inclusion of sign language. It's sweet, but feels dated. Like the colors but not the words. Like that it includes a 
teachable component. Too hippy. Love the bright colors and intricate designs. Seems more about diversity than racial 
equity. Design is bold and graphic though. This is great. It emanates positive vibes! Really colorful and cool. flowers are 
really pretty. like the brighter colors. it would be pretty with the restaurant parklets. Beautiful colors. For those who 
want a design that stands out more but still looks tasteful, this is it! Love everything about this. while retro styling, I love 
this color palette. It makes me happy look at and not so complicated on a larger scale. This is my favorite! I love that it 
also includes the hard of hearing community. Creative! Powerful! Beautiful! I like the colors but feels a little haight 
ashbury, S.F. This mural brings a smile to my face with the signing of love and symbols of peace and love. Appreciate 
the inclusiveness. Simple, colorful but I don’t get “diversity”, “equity” so much from this one. Love peace and love and 
the colors. I like it if it were more filled in. WRONG LOCATION FOR MURALS. This mural is beautiful. Great colors, the 
meeting is positive, it's pretty neutral where I can see that people would be more inclined to like something more 
neutral.  
 
I loved this "grand finale"!! Pretty colors, each "stop" along the vine has a message. Positive. Colorful and unique. 
Stores are vacant now.  No way would I bring my business here.  Stop! The symbolism and colors. Cheerful, but also 
with a strong message-love that sign language is included. Nice idea but doesn't really translate well to the walkway. 
This is my favorite. I like the use of sign language and feel it gets across the message of inclusion and love while creating 
a fun mural that appeals to all ages. Attractive, lively colors, pretty images, a pleasant and unobjectionable message. 
This will probably end up being the compromise choice. Hopeful. I like the shapes and colors and message. Words of 
love and peace. It uses the space well and has a good message. Feels less political, which might make more people 
receptive. Love the message, Art, and how it incorporates sign language concepts - fab! I like the colors and the use of 
ASL. like the flowers and hands and love and peace message. I really like this piece. Love the colors, flowers and the sign 
language. flowers look like decals, over-stylized or simplistic.  Feels a bit too juvenile. love the colors! Not 
confrontational. I think children will like this mural. love the colors so much. I like how the pattern flows. I really like the 
design itself, it is beautiful, but the messaging of Peace and Love is a little generic. it's colorful and sends a good 
message. Beautiful and elegant design: colorful, rich. I appreciate the inclusion of ASL. 
3. Melissa Ghiglieri 
3A: 
Colors ok, hands sort of strange. Love the colors!! And the theme. Artwork is nice, idea of concept is not there. The 
second one is okay but too detailed for a mural. Happy colors. Pretty design and lots of vibrance. Very busy and big! 
Beautiful image, flow and colors.  Are those flowers native to San Mateo?  Or do they represent to spectrum of ethnic 
cultures in San Mateo? This one is beautiful and I like that the colors fill the whole space, and the hands are more 
realistic. But evokes the Sistine chapel a little and I’m not sure I like that. Bright bold colors and simple design. But 
would have liked to see something representing this area, such as native flowers or a reference to indigenous tribes of 
California. Beautiful colors and details. The story and mural are very pretty, but the style seems too detailed to read 
well on a street. I love this one too. Both color schemes are great! I can see this on B-street. pretty. Beautiful flowers. 
Not loving big hands. Not a fan of the heart and flowers. Don’t like the colors and the hands look too much like that 
“famous” DaVinci painting. I like the first one with the heart. That's awesome. TERRIBLE LOCATION FOR ATTRACTIVE 
MURALS.  
 
I don't get diversity - just think of De Vinci and grandma flowers. I feel like it would be hard to tell what it is when it’s 
painted on the ground. Just don't care for it for this purpose. The message isn't clear, would definitely need some 
interpretation posted somewhere. I like the symbolism of the flowers that is explained in the concept abstract. I think a 
sign explaining the symbolism of the flowers would be a great addition. I like the flowers. To be honest, I don't like the 
107 of 135

--- page 108 ---
8 of 12 
 
anatomical heart (though I realize I'm more easily grossed-out than most). The gracefully connected hands are 
reminiscent of gestures in Renaissance art. Most interesting, too feminine. Beautifully rendered and well 
conceptualized! don't love all the floral, doesn't seem modern or to fit our downtown style. I appreciate the sentiment, 
but nothing in this shows me racial equity. Don't like what reads as a somewhat kitsch allusion to thre outstretched 
hands of God and Adam on the Sistine Chapel ceiling -- whether or not the artist intended that.   Don't like the 
anatomical heart.  Flowers are pretty. it's beautifully done, and the hands are ok here--although seems to include only 2 
cultures. its really detailed. the detail is amazing. It remind’s me of a renaissance hand. flowers are nice. anatomic heart 
is a little creepy. 
 
3B: 
No comments submitted. 
 
3C: 
Colors ok, hands sort of strange. Love it! This one is pretty as well, similar to the previous one. Big hands to paint. 
Beautiful image, flow and colors.  Are those flowers native to San Mateo?  Or do they represent to spectrum of ethnic 
cultures in San Mateo? Bright bold colors and simple design. But would have liked to see something representing this 
area, such as native flowers or a reference to indigenous tribes of California. pretty flowers. Like the color contract. 
Don't like the heart. I heart is kinda creepy for being out at restaurants. Too much 'Sistine Chapel'.  PUT MURALS ON 
WALLS, NOT ON STREET. don't get diversity. get Di Vinci and grandma flowers. Just don't care for it for this purpose. The 
message isn't clear, would definitely need some interpretation posted somewhere. Nothing with anatomical hearts, 
please. It reminds me of a tattoo. Too feminine. Same as for previous variations -- except the anatomical heart is more 
prominent here, to their detriment. Don't laugh--heart looks icky! The heart might be scary for kids. 
 
3D: 
Like colors, pattern except for person with open head. Great colors and concept but not so much about equity. A bit 
much for city streets with kids looking at it. Beautiful.  Doesn't represent racial equity to me. This one is very cool. Like 
the intricacies and think it’s beautiful. Bright bold colors and simple design. But would have liked to see something 
representing this area, such as native flowers or a reference to indigenous tribes of California. Some kid is going to 
spray paint a moustache on the person. Beautiful colors and details. This is simply beautiful art! I don't if is speaks 
clarity enough to the theme of DEI, but it sure is lovely. Colors are ok. Color contracts, flowers. Absolutely love 
everything. I do not think this is a strong as some of the more graphic approaches. I don’t understand the concept here. 
Lots of cool shapes. Pretty flowers.  MUCH BETTER SHOWN VERTICALLY ON BUILDING WALL.  B ST. IS WRONG 
LOCATION.  
 
The detail is really pretty as well as the colors. It will be easy to see. it's pretty but the message is obscure. People won’t 
understand this without a plaque to explain the historical reference. Just don't care for it for this purpose. The message 
isn't clear, would definitely need some interpretation posted somewhere. Provocative and colorful. I appreciate the 
floral symbolism. It's very pretty, but it's hard to tell what message it's conveying. (Maybe each flower is from a 
different continent, but I don't know enough about botany to recognize all their areas of origin.) Also, it could be 
interpreted as conveying unfortunate symbolism, since the woman's head is hollow and eyes, forehead, and hair 
(identifying features and seat of thought) are missing. I like this but only showing a person of color might not be the 
best thing. If there is diversity in the flowers why no diversity in the people? Only woman not inclusive. Colorful, not as 
inclusive. Again, flowers are rendered attractively.  But flowers growing out of the top of a (now brainless) head is not 
original and a bit facile as symbolism. It's beautiful, but only one culture.  If you could do faces of multiple races, 
maybe? In many ways the design is beautiful, but I find the open head a little disturbing. Very pretty. IM CLENCHING 
THIS IS PERFECT I LOVE THIS PLEASE PICK THIS!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
3E & 3F: 
No comments submitted. 
 
 
 
108 of 135

--- page 109 ---
9 of 12 
 
3G: 
I like this artist's images, but not at all appropriate and too detailed for a street mural. Would look great on a wall. 
Colors nice, hands sort of strange. Again big hands! Beautiful, engaging colors.  Hands are an old concept though. Like 
that color fills the whole space. Wish the hands weren’t so prominent. Unsure if this pattern would be repeated for the 
entire block or if just a single pattern. Gives me "Creation of Man" by Michaelangelo vibes. Beautiful colors. Really great 
as well. I wouldn't deign to tell an artist what to do, but I think this could/would be better with the hands colored in a 
some kind of human flesh tone. colors are pretty. Love the way the hands made. So beautiful. I like the image. It's cool 
but I liked the one with the faces a little more. Sistine Chapel again.  PLEASE DO NOT PUT MURALS ON B STREET. weird 
Di Vinci vibe. Will drive patrons away. Just don't care for it for this purpose. The message isn't clear, would definitely 
need some interpretation posted somewhere. I like the colors and shapes of this design. Works in different directions. 
Retains the graceful hands of the first version and multiple colors, which (distantly) hint at diversity. Feeling of trust and 
love. Colors, circles intersecting is a nice feeling. Graphically simplified, less fussy than previous variations.  Thus far, the 
only design that appears inclusive of white skins rather than just brown, black -- which is not a bad idea for an artwork 
symbolizing inclusive community. Stamped down the length of the street? Nicely done, but not picturing it finished on 
the street. Gorgeous design. i've seen this design before somewhere. pretty flowers. 
4. Dylan Hararah 
4A: 
It brings our concerns of our environment and the protection for all persons. I love the images, they're beautiful. This is 
the same for all of Dylan's images...they're all great!! However, I just don't think they reflect the Racial Equity theme as 
well as some others. Nice colors and patterns. Love the colors! In my top two favorite. Bird not unique, flower is 
recognizable to CA. not sure how this represents racial equity. The flowers and bird are pretty. Colors, cheerful. Pattern 
is amazing and love the color. Nice color.  I have never seen a Yellow Billed Magpie in San Mateo.  How about a variety 
of birds - shore & water birds, backyard & trail birds - found in San Mateo to represent diversity? This is pretty but not 
sure how equity ties in. I like the blue. Love the integration with nature and using an endemic bird species. Concern 
with the light colors because of the foot traffic it will get dirt very fast so dark colors would be better at this location. I 
like the visuals but don’t see how this represents equality. simplicity, beauty, message.  
 
Beautiful colors. Nothing to do with racial equity. Lovely concept and design, but not about racial equity. Great stuff, 
but I am correct I that the theme is DEI. If not, then this simply cool and would really nice on B-street. If the theme is 
DEI, then I don't think that it speaks to that clearly enough. it's pretty, but only nature. Pretty but I don't think it's in line 
with the project goal. Like the idea. Not as vibrant for a mural. I don’t think it fits the architecture of B street. I’m not 
sure how this fits with the theme. I see this mural and think California but not diversity,equity, inclusion. Pretty cool. I 
think I like the human shapes more than birds. Lovely birds.  Too much blue.  BIRDS SHOULD BE SEEN FLYING ON 
VERTICAL SURFACE.  UNDERFOOT ON B STREET IS THE WRONG LOCATION. Again, I think the message "Racial equality" 
could be more explicit. pretty, peaceful, related to our area. Like the ca represented in the poppy. Simple yet beautifully 
artistic. Wonderful theme that affects and should unite all. I think you can show the message simply in a way that is 
appealing to all. I love the design depicting California subjects, very pleasing design. It is neutral, since it is not tied to a 
culture- nobody is left out with this design.  
 
Nice imagery of the San Mateo area but I don't see the connection to Racial Equality, which is the purpose behind this 
piece. I like the colors and the depiction of the birds. Very calming, beautiful and peaceful.  I think it's very attractive, 
with very nice visual rhythms, and at a good scale for a street mural. But I don't think there's enough connection with 
San Mateo specifically. Could we find a bird (or butterfly, lizard, snake, etc.) that's native to the Peninsula? unique 
california theme. Does not represent diversity. Environment and flowers. Both the art and the message are important.  I 
like that it is CA specific including the poppies. Very different! Metaphor to natural world is universally understood. Also 
a very good illustration with a nice natural flow. Nature related, instead of human. its calm and feel good. like the water 
theme and colors. It does not hammer its message.  It has movement.  It uses mostly softer colors -- which might wear 
better on those who will live with this art project every day than would those shown previously. too much explanation 
needed to appreciate the art. Nature, open, non confrontational.  However, the blue is a little light. it's not really about 
equity, but it's pretty. Beautiful colors and artwork.  Also, kinda cool that it uses our state flower (the poppy). 
109 of 135

--- page 110 ---
10 of 12 
 
 
4B: 
Colors nice pattern ok. Love the colors. I could see kids liking the snake and walking the length from tail to head. The 
inclusion of nature is very nice and thoughtful. Really prefer a mural which depicts the cultural diversity of San Mateo,  
rather than natural features of the state. Native to our area so keeps within a good theme. Love it! Nice colors.  A bit 
sparse.  Maybe add a mammal native to the area and a tree branch for some more diversity representation. Love a 
good snake, and love the blue. Like the use of endemic California species, though from the description it did not sound 
like the artist is from the area , which is ok. The snake isn't very welcoming. simplicity, beauty, message (but really not a 
fan of snakes -- i am not alone in this). Nothing to do with racial equity. lovely but not about racial equity. Nice Fun. Not 
liking the color palette nor design. Not a fan of the colors or design. Again I get nature from this. I can see kids following 
the path. Too much baby blue.  STREET SURFACE IS THE WRONG LOCATION FOR ANY MURAL. snakes are not usually a 
good association. snake while eating? Um.......snakes let loose.! Nice imagery of the San Mateo area but I don't see the 
connection to Racial Equality, which is the purpose behind this piece. In contrast with the previous version: Better local 
connection in the wildlife but I don't find it as visually appealing. local focus. Does not represent diversity. Environment. 
Nature relates to all. no snakes !!! Again, this has movement and mainly soft colors.  The snake?  Most take negative 
connotations from images of snakes, and this over-scale one -- compared to scale of the egrets -- appears to threaten 
those birds. not specific to San Mateo. Children might like “walking the snake”  
 
4C: 
Nice colors and patterns. Love the bright colors. Colorful. Nice color pop.  Design is fun. Don’t love this color scheme. 
There are so many native plants, wildlife, insects, rocks, etc in California. I love for this mural tried to showcase that but 
failed to capture more of our local ecosystem. Love this! simple and colorful. Bright colors. Nothing to do with racial 
equity. I really dig this one if we are not emphasizing the DEI theme. It is really sunny and feels like Cali. Like the shapes. 
Colorful but more abstract. PLEASE PUT MURALS ON WALLS NOT ON THE STREET. bold, pretty, happy. related to our 
area. No!! Don't like this one at all. Very local, bright and pretty, and inoffensive from a content perspective. I like it but 
not as much as the very first one you showed, with the different designs representing different cultures. Does not 
represent diversity. Nice colors. May be a reach for the public to connect the dots related to diversity. I like the use of 
nature to convey the message of growth as well as harmony in diversity.  This artist's symbolism is less ham-fisted than 
most of the previous artists' -- who hit you over the head with 'meaning' at times... Although it uses California 
symbolism, it is applicable to San Mateo’s aspirations. Colorful, nature. The blue shape with a light blue tip looks like a 
knife. pretty but very simple. i didn't get the meaning in this one. 
 
4D: 
Colors and pattern nice. Love the local flowers. Fun colors and design, engaging. The CA Condor is not native to this 
area.  There are birds that are native and threatened, such as the Northern Spotted Owl and the Brown Pelican 
(https://www.nps.gov/goga/learn/nature/endangered-birds.htm). Not quite enough going on. I like the description and 
meaning behind this one. But it would have used more integration of local species. Beautiful colors. Nothing to do with 
racial equity. Same feeling as I expressed about the previous image. I thinks is really beautiful, but doesn't express a DEI 
message. Like the wild flowers. I like the boldness of the graphics. It's okay. I like the colors. I don’t think this fits the 
theme. I like the symbolism behind the condor. Colorful but feels a little abstract close up. B STREET IS THE WRONG 
LOCATION FOR THE MURALS. bold, pretty, related to our area. Nice imagery of the San Mateo area but I don't see the 
connection to Racial Equality, which is the purpose behind this piece. As before, I'd like to see more specific connection 
to this area. Condors live in higher, more rugged terrain. Does not represent diversity. Bright colors that are not garish; 
graphically bold.  I like the symbolism behind it: the idea that some things need watchful care and preservation as the 
environment changes, and it takes community to do that. At scale, the condors could read as threatening rather than 
threatened and needing a community's protection. Not positive enough. Like this design better. Really great colors and 
artistic style. 
 
 
110 of 135

--- page 111 ---
11 of 12 
 
5. Chelsea Hart 
The colors and images feel a bit too whimsy. Vibrant colors and fun patterns. Appreciate the concept, find the color 
palette a little off-putting. It’s bright and pretty. Too much. Super fun and engaging and lively! It’s fun and bright but a 
little cartoony for my taste. I think it would look good though. Like the use of bold colors. Looks like it belongs on a 
children's playground. this is awesome! beautiful, colorful, simple shapes, message. Bright colors. Too cartoonish. Really 
cool and abstract. It could work well. colorful. maybe too much? like the faces. Love the vibrant colors. So 60s. Fun and 
vibrant but not a new style. It's fresh, vibrant and fun. Colorful! Meaningful! Modern! Fun and vibrant. I like the colors 
and shapes but I don’t think the image matches the description at all. Colorful, a bit too abstract for me. That's fun. Too 
bright.  WRONG LOCATION. Vibrant colors. too cartoonish.  very Keith Haring. Too abstract for kids to understand the 
theme without an explanation. I love the happy colors. The hands are so overused. We can be more creative. Too busy, 
the images would be too large across the piece and hard to interpret. It isn't my personal favorite as an artwork, but it's 
quite attractive. The imagery successfully conveys a friendly message of inclusion, and the bright colors and big, 
childlike shapes are energizing. abstract colorful. Love the colors and shapes and the message. Looks fun to walk on. 
Too childlike. I like the bright colors. I like the fact that the hands are in colors that are not skin colors. It is very simple 
and boldly colored. Comment/suggestion for change:  some of the faces are a bit ""too abstract"" (I know, weird thing 
to say). It's very cheerful and a great representation of everything. Nice colors. Shapes are a bit cartoony. Great color 
and appreciate cultural message. Reminds me of the new mural on the new parking lot on 5th and Claremont. Is it the 
same artist? Trying to be Matisse without the sophistication.  Not so much child-like as childish.  At scale, color likely 
would feel garish and certainly swamp the surrounding architecture. wonderful colors that express joy in diversity to 
me. Sorry--boring, too much color, and the overdone hands theme again. Again, it might be visually overpowering in 
the environment. It’s vibrant & fun. fun and playful, but maybe too simple. vibrant colors. 
6. Simón Malvaez & Juan Manuel Carmona 
6A: 
As a member of the LGBTQ+ community, I like the concept. They are also integrating their culture. I wonder that other 
cultures may feel left out? None of the other designs included crosswalks, but that would be fun too! Nice colors and 
patterns. Love the colors, patterns, and cultural representations! Interesting, creative but protest or black power is 
controversial in not a good way. It’s beautiful and I love what it represents. Feels heavy. This is very very cool. Love the 
design and the breadth of it. Including crosswalks. Love that it also includes the crosswalks and use of bright but dark 
colors since there will be a lot of foot traffic. Fun colors and nice imagery. Too colorful. Love the symbolism and 
meaning, and colors. It is very vibrant and cohesive. Love this. Maybe a personal taste, but i love the colors. they a 
evoke a feeling of jazz. Well thought. These colors are very elegant and would add richness and warmth, without 
overpowering, our downtown area. Does it speak to everyone? No. Is that a bad thing? No. Love the message of 
tolerance. it ok if racial equity mean queer and latino... otherwise doesn't meet the brief. Good idea, a little simple in 
the execution. Best of show. Good colors, fine design.  WRONG LOCATION. pretty, colorful, strong ethnic message. like 
stepping stones.  
 
YES LOVE ALL OF IT. Love that crosswalks are included. Clear theme, nice colors. everything. this is the best. I like it, but 
some interpretation would be needed.  I don't see where the added crosswalk locations are part of the original plan, 
but could be a good add if done well. Semi-Aztec design, bright color palette, variety of ways the design could be 
implemented. integrated themes. It requires a bit of thought and attention. Feels too rigid. But I do like the colors. The 
symbols. Unique. quite detailed. Strong. Nice colors. great color and message. Don't like the protest fists (in any of the 
various artists submissions:  they project anger, hostility, a hard edge not open to dialogue.  These designs, though 
comprehensively thought through with crosswalk idea, seem too rooted in one culture, and so not depicting diversity as 
well as wanted. to confined to a particular culture. LOVE the duality design--really cool, interesting and incorporates 
multiple cultures.  NO FISTS!!!  We do NOT want hostility on this block.  Lots of other places for people to find that 
image; should not be here. this one is my fav because of the eyes. I love the idea of incorporating crosswalks! By far the 
most well rounded and cohesive inclusive design - very visually appealing.  Appropriate color palate. Love the lines and 
colors.  I think it would look great on the streetscape. i really like the message for lgbtq+ but not sure it represents 
everyone for equality in san mateo. 
111 of 135

--- page 112 ---
12 of 12 
 
 
6B: 
The design colors aren't my fave. Also, it's very focus on Aztec. Again...it feels singular in culture, not inclusive. Dull 
colors, don’t really like pattern. Love the style. Creative, cohesive, thoughtful. Doesn't feel like it represents equity or 
diversity. This is also very cool. I like the color one better but this is awesome. Like the use of crosswalks but this mural 
overall focuses only on Aztec culture and there is so much more diversity in San Mateo that was not reflected here. This 
celebrates one ethnic background instead of bringing everyone together. Colors are too muted. Great design. It is 
interesting, historical, and cultural. Not my favorite color scheme and they seem fitting for the design. Moon and sun. 
So cultural. Particulary like this design. Same feedback as before: this speaks to our LatinX community, mainly. Is that a 
bad thing? No. San Mateo has a rich Mexican history and this could celebrate it.  
I like that the design creates and continuous avenue. The colors work well with the architecture and nature. It's simple 
and clean.  The colors look muddy and  fit multiple cultures. Feels interesting but maybe better as a wall mural. EVEN 
BETTER THAN THE PRIOR ONE.  GREAT DESIGN AND COLORS.  REALLY BEAUTIFUL ART.  I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THIS 
MURAL IN SAN MATEO, ON A VERTAL BUILDING WALL WHERE PEOPLE CAN APPRECIATE IT.  UNDER FOOT AND SUBJECT 
TO SPILLS ON B STREET IS NO PLACE FOR SUCH BEAUTIFUL ART.  PLEASE RECONSIDER LOCATION. I liked the work, but I 
feel it represents just one type of culture (that is beautiful, but we have many others). more subdued colors, not as 
universal of a theme. Not a favorite. I think the imagery is very attractive, and I like the message. However, its singular 
focus on Latino heritage and art style limits its appeal to viewers of other backgrounds. Maybe as part of a larger 
collection of images? beautiful but seems culturally limited. I like it but it only represents a portion of the San Mateo 
population. Not inclusive. Does not represent diversity. I like the outline illustrations of the faces in prop 2. doesn't 
seem to fit san mateo. This is unique. Elegant--could use the red colors from duality design on the earlier one.  I 
wouldn't use the single Spanish faces alone--too much of one culture.  Could you add the red from the earlier one?  and 
change the single faces? These last two are good. it might cause trouble in the crosswalk. 
 
6C: 
I wish the arms were included in the street, not only the sidewalks. I like this one, but also wonder about inclusiveness 
of a diversity of cultures. Dull colors. various colors, idea of diversity and unity, wording centered, etc. Doesn't feel like 
it represents equity or diversity. I don’t really love words on the street and this color scheme is a little less nice than the 
first two from this artist. Same as previous comment. There are a lot of cultures represented in San Mateo and would 
have liked to see them reflected in this large mural. For people that don't speak Spanish, "unidad" sounds like a dad 
with a unibrow. (don't love the colors). Love the message of unity. colors are too muted. Same feeling as previous 
design. Moon and stars. Beautiful. I don't think text on the ground is as successful.  
 
As someone of color, but not Latinx, I recognize the importance of this piece but do not feel like it represents me. I love 
the message but the actual street art might not be as inspiring. LIKE ALL ENTRIES, THE ARTWORK IS OUTSTANDING, BUT 
THE PROPOSED LOCATION IS DREADFUL. I dont think it should be wirtten in Spanish. Not inclusive enough. Not a 
favorite.  The hands in the crosswalk areas seem odd. The artwork is attractive but I don't think it's inclusive enough. 
Same comment as before. This is not inclusive - it only represents a portion of the population of San Mateo. The text is 
unnecessary - it detracts from the image. I like how direct and strong this is— using words and symbols. I really like this 
and what is represents. Same comment as for first iteration by these artists. NO NO NO!!  No HOSTILITY in what is 
supposed to be a friendly gathering place.  This is not the place for these angry images. 
112 of 135

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7546
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 31, 2023 
SUBJECT:
1950 Elkhorn Court Replacement Art Proposal - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the The Lark Public Art Proposal, May 2023 for the property at 1950 Elkhorn Court.
BACKGROUND:
In 2014, in compliance with the Art in Public Places Ordinance (AiPP), developer Essex Property Trust Inc. chose to provide 
art at the new condominium development at 1950 Elkhorn St. known as “Park20”. Essex selected artist Albert Dicruttalo to 
create a 17-foot, stainless steel sculpture titled “Triumvirate” (Attachment 1). The Civic Arts Committee (CAC) reviewed 
the proposal and approved the project and final installation was completed in December 2014.
Virtú Investments carries a robust portfolio of properties across the west and acquired “Park20” in 2021. Shortly 
thereafter, Virtú rebranded the property as “The Lark” and made interior and exterior property modifications. In 
November 2022, staff noticed while passing the property that the Triumvirate sculpture was missing and immediately 
contacted the on-site property manager, who then connected the City to the Director of Construction & Maintenance of 
Virtú Investments. 
In conversation with Virtú staff, it was stated that they had not received the recorded Maintenance Agreement in the 
property transfer, therefore, there were no known restrictions with the artwork. Virtú staff ultimately confirmed that the 
sculpture had been removed and subsequently melted down in accordance with recycling requirements. City staff then 
met with Virtú staff to discuss the ramifications and cure for the City and the artist in destroying the artwork. The City 
conveyed its primary interest was to replace the art with a new sculpture by the same artist. Mr. Dicruttalo was amenable 
to fabricating a new sculpture, and Virtú Investments concurred. The result is a new sculpture proposed in a slightly 
different location.
Proposal and Staff Recommendation
Section 23.60.110 of the AiPP requires that art removed by the property owner without City approval be replaced with art 
of comparable value. The replacement art must be reviewed and approved by the CAC. As the CAC is familiar with the 
artist, the former sculpture, and the location from the first project, an abbreviated proposal focusing on the new sculpture 
was submitted (Attachment 2). The new sculpture location is larger in width allowing for a more horizontal presentation. It 
is CORTEN steel and retains a three geometric elliptical concept at approximately 11 feet in height, 11 feet in width, and 7 
feet in depth. 
113 of 135

--- page 114 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The proposed replacement sculpture is in a similar location in public view, is of comparable value, size and scale to the 
piece it is replacing, and meets the criteria required in the AiPP Ordinance. Therefore, staff recommends approval of this 
proposal.
BUDGET IMPACT:
None
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This sculpture installation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Triumvirate Art Proposal, 2014
Att 2 – The Lark Public Art Proposal, May 2023
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
114 of 135

--- page 115 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
Application For Public Art
May 5, 2014
Location:
1950 Elkhorn Court
San Mateo, CA
Client:
Essex Property Trust Inc.
Project Name:
PARK20
Description
In accordance with the Arts In Public Places code Essex Property Trust Inc. and art consultant 
Andrea Schwartz Gallery are proposing one site speci!c sculpture to be located in the front of the 
PARK20 condominiums. All artists reviewed are accomplished with previous experience in public 
art. The project outline emphasized the aesthetic vision of the PARK20 project, appropriate scale 
and proportion to surrounding structures, be unique in design and concept and meet the City Of 
San Mateo Art In Public Places criteria.  After reviewing several artists portfolios we settled on one 
artist who's aesthetic matched the vision of the PARK20 project and who was enthusiastic to take 
on the unique challenges of this site.
Budget
The total budget for this project is $150,000. The cost of the sculpture including all materials, 
fabrication, installation and tax is $142,000. An allowance of $8000 has been set aside for site 
preparation, foundation, engineering, lighting and permitting. 
Site Speci!cs
This project has limited locations available for public art of appropriate scale due to the buildings 
footprint and proximity to the street. The proposed location for this piece will be in front of the 
complex with accessibility to the public. The facade of PARK20 is primarily stucco with the 
entrance being set apart by a cultured stone. The height of the entrance is 35’ and fairly vertical. 
The entrance to the building has a staircase "anked on both sides by raised bed approximately 
30” above sidewalk grade. The raised bed on the right of the staircase as one faces the building is 
115 of 135

--- page 116 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
the preferred location. This location gives the most accessibility to the public with visibility from the 
corner of West 20th and all along Elkhorn Court. Due to the constraints of pedestrian "ow and 
vehicular traf!c the maximum footprint was set at 6 feet at the widest part. 
Additional Information
The lighting being provided speci!cally to the sculpture will consist of 3 in ground lights for 
uplighting. The curves and intersections of the sculpture will catch and re"ect the light creating a 
dramatic focal point. In addition to the speci!c lighting there will be substantial ambient lighting 
from the building and street lighting.
Maintenance of the sculpture will be minimal with an occasional washing using extended RV 
brushes and water to loosen any dirt. 
116 of 135

--- page 117 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
Artist Albert Dicruttalo
Born in upstate New York in 1967, Albert grew up in the foothills of the Adirondack Mountains in 
the post-industrial town of Gloversville. After studying art at Ithaca College, He continued making 
sculpture and traveled for extended periods in Alaska and South America. In 1994 He began 
working in the Program of Computer Graphics at Cornell University to investigate and utilize 
electronic technologies in the creation of sculpture. Two years later he established a studio and 
foundry in Oakland, California where he currently lives.
Selected Museum Exhibitions:
Sonoma County Museum – Santa Rosa, California (2012)
San Luis Obispo Museum of Art - San Luis Obispo, California (2011)
Duolun Museum of Modern Art - Shanghai, China (2009)
Today Art Museum - Beijing, China (2008)
Recent Public Art:
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center – San Jose, California (2014)
Neiman Marcus - Walnut Creek, California (2012)
Orinda Plaza - Orinda, California (2011)
Orinda City Hall - Orinda, California (2011)
Professional Experience:
Instructor in Sculpture, Academy of Art College, San Francisco, California (1998-2000)
Chief Assistant to sculptor Bruce Beasley (1996-2010)
Research Assistant, Program of Computer Graphics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY (1994 -1996)
117 of 135

--- page 118 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
Proposed Artwork by Artist Albert Dicruttalo
Contrasting organic curves combine with the 
elliptical geometry of each component to symbolize 
growth, diversity and unity. Standing sixteen feet in 
height, three repeated elliptical forms with complex 
curves intersect in a vertical composition. The 
height of each ellipse is 10’ adding to the 
monumental feel of the sculpture while allowing it to 
!t in a 5’ footprint. At roughly half the height of the 
entrance it has proper scale proportion to the 
building. The burnished stainless steel presents a 
strong luminosity both distinguishing the piece from 
its surroundings and re"ecting those surroundings 
so the surface is constantly changing depending on 
light and the perspective of the viewer. This 
sculpture has been conceived and will be 
constructed by artist Albert Dicruttalo
118 of 135

--- page 119 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
119 of 135

--- page 120 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
16’
4’
120 of 135

--- page 121 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
121 of 135

--- page 122 ---
545 4th Street
San Francisco, CA 94107
415-495-2090
www.asgallery.com
A California Corporation
122 of 135

--- page 123 ---
Virtú Investments - The Lark
Public Art
123 of 135

--- page 124 ---
Project Location
1950 Elkhorn Court - San Mateo 
124 of 135

--- page 125 ---
Scope
• Art must be appropriate in scale and proportion 
• Consideration given to sight lines, public visibility and accessibility 
• Meet City Of San Mateo “Art In Public Places” criteria 
• Sculpture Budget - $160,000.00 (cost of sculpture, delivery & installation by artist)
125 of 135

--- page 126 ---
Old Site Location
• Raised platform 
• Main entrance  
• Vehicular traffic 
• Approximately 15’ from 30’ tall glass & stone 
facade 
• Viewable from above 
• Grade 30” higher than sidewalk
126 of 135

--- page 127 ---
Albert Dicruttalo sculpture original

127 of 135


--- page 128 ---
New Site Location
• Raised platform 
• Close to Main entrance  
• Vehicular traffic 
• Approximately 15’ from 30’ tall glass & stone 
facade 
• Viewable from above 
• Grade 30” higher than sidewalk
128 of 135

--- page 129 ---
ae

UN Ty jy

Albert Dicruttalo sculpture original

129 of 135


--- page 130 ---
=

y
J

OZ MAW

Ocnsva

iL OD

Albert Dicruttalo sculpture original

130 of 135



--- page 131 ---
• One site specific sculpture 
• Dimensions 10’-9”h x 11’w x 6’-9”d 
• CORTEN Steel
Proposed Artwork
131 of 135

--- page 132 ---
Albert Dicruttalo sculpture proposal

132 of 135


--- page 133 ---
Albert Dicruttalo sculpture proposal

133 of 135


--- page 134 ---
Albert Dicruttalo sculpture proposal

134 of 135


--- page 135 ---
• Lighting  
• Sculpture will have a minimum of two uplights 
• Plenty of ambient lighting 
• Maintenance 
• CORTEN steel  
• No maintenance, wash as needed
Additional Considerations
135 of 135