source: packet.pdf
sha256: 3c65f47369f3447be3dd476efa6293b1ffc8d948e54d22d898b3cd45d668452e
pages: 31
ocr_pages: 11
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting
November 6, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Sabrina Ocampo
Regina Trapp
Thomas Jelniker – Youth Commissioner
 Vacant – Youth Commissioner
 
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: November 6, 2024
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 814 0199 4198 Passcode: 441150
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the special joint meeting of September 30, 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at
this time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
​Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program​
​Receive presentation and provide feedback on the proposed Beresford pickleball pilot program.​
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 31

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 31

--- page 3 ---


--- page 4 ---
4 of 31

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9277
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 06, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive presentation and provide feedback on the proposed Beresford pickleball pilot program. 
BACKGROUND:
In November 2023, the City of San Mateo conducted a comprehensive community survey to evaluate the recreational use 
of the courts at Beresford Park. A total of 555 residents participated, providing significant insights into how the tennis and 
pickleball courts are currently being utilized. This survey was prompted by the need for resurfacing of the tennis courts and 
the growing interest from the community in pickleball, and the need to assess how the park could better meet the needs 
of its diverse user base. 
The survey results indicated a strong preference for pickleball, with 60% of respondents stating that they primarily play 
pickleball at Beresford Park, compared to 37% who primarily play tennis and 3% who participate in Junior Tennis. 
Respondents were also asked what days of the week they utilized Beresford Court, with results showing peak usage on 
Saturdays (72%) and Sundays (66%). The survey results also reflected strong participation during morning, midday and 
early evening hours, suggesting consistent demand throughout the day. The proximity of the park to the respondents 
varied, with 49% living within one mile of Beresford Park and 38% living elsewhere within the City of San Mateo. An 
additional 13% of respondents came from outside the city, further demonstrating the park's regional appeal. 
The November 2023 survey results provide a clear justification for the Beresford pickleball pilot program. Nearly 60% of 
respondents indicated that pickleball is their primary sport at Beresford Park. Given the rapid rise in pickleball's popularity 
and the strong community demand, the pilot program offers a practical way to evaluate how best to balance the needs of 
both pickleball and tennis players. 
Additionally, the pilot program provides an opportunity to evaluate pickleball court usage and demand. By dedicating the 
courts solely to pickleball and allowing drop-in play without requiring reservations, the city can maintain a flexible, 
community-centered approach. A postcard was mailed to residents within 1,000-foot radius of Beresford Park to about the 
proposed pilot and commission meeting. In addition, an email was sent to the pickleball mailing list, current participants in 
tennis and pickleball programs, and those who have made a tennis reservation within the last six months. Gathering 
community feedback will be a key part of the pilot, with users encouraged to submit comments and suggestions to 
pickleball@cityofsanmateo.org. After six to eight months, staff will review the data and offer recommendations on future 
management and oversight of the program. 
5 of 31

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Pilot Program Overview 
The Beresford Pickleball Pilot Program proposes to line one of the four tennis courts at Beresford Park with markings for 
four pickleball courts. During this pilot, all courts will be available for use during normal hours (sunrise until 10 PM, when 
the lights go off) with one court being exclusively used for Pickleball and the other three courts being available for tennis. 
The pilot will run for six to eight months, after which the city will evaluate the program based on court usage data, user 
feedback including any reported conflicts or challenges, and monitor any impacts on the availability and demand for both 
pickleball and tennis. This will help determine what adjustments may be needed to facilitate this program. 
Key elements of the program include: 
Court Usage: The courts will be available on a drop-in basis, and reservations will not be required during the pilot program.
Signage: Clear signage will be posted detailing court usage rules, including time limits and player rotation guidelines to 
ensure fair play. The signage will also outline the proper etiquette and safety procedures for pickleball players.
 
Pickleball Rules and Code of Conduct: 
During the pilot, players will be expected to follow specific rules to ensure that the courts are used efficiently and safely.
These rules include: 
* Players must follow a "four on, four off" rotation, with winning teams staying on if fewer than four are waiting. 
* Games are played to 11 points (9 points if more than 12 people are waiting to play), with a limit of one-minute warmup.
* Players should use the paddle rack to indicate the next-up queue and avoid double paddling or holding spots.
* Sportsmanship and courtesy are essential, and players must adhere to all rules, make fair line calls, and follow safety  
   guidelines to ensure smooth court operations. 
* Private lessons are prohibited unless contracted with the City. 
Staff anticipate that the pickleball court striping can be done in the next two months, weather pending. Once the courts 
are striped and netting for court separation are installed the pilot program will begin. Staff are seeking feedback regarding 
the pilot program prior to rolling it out to the public. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The fiscal impact of the pilot is expected to be approximately $20,000. The primary expenses will include temporary court 
lining and netting for court separation, the installation of temporary commercial quality pickleball nets and new signage, 
all of which can be funded within the department's current budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1- Proposed Layout 
Att 2- Draft Pickleball Rules and Code of Conduct 
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Douglas, Interim Recreation Manager
sdouglas@cityofsanmateo.org
 (650) 522-7442
6 of 31

--- page 7 ---


--- page 8 ---
Pickleball Rules and Code of Conduct
The following rules apply during pickleball play. Please read thoroughly prior to stepping onto the court.
Court Usage Rules

Four on, four off.  While players are waiting, all four players must rotate off.

Play one game to 11 points, win by 2 then rotate off the court. 
o
If more than 12 players are waiting to play, game goes to 9 points instead of 11 points.

Warmups are allowed but limited to one minute.

No drilling. TWO balls maximum on the court.

No rolling back the score to prolong time on the court.

Pickleball nets and wheels must stay locked on the court.

No food, pet animals, and non-pickleball equipment are allowed on the court.

No private, professional lessons allowed unless contracted with the City.
Next up Queue

Use the paddle rack queue to indicate that you are waiting for next available court. Left-most 
grouping is next up.

No double paddling. Do not place an extra paddle in a queue to save your spot while you are 
already on the court or to save a spot for a friend you are waiting to play with.

If you are waiting to play with certain players who are currently playing, do not place your 
paddle in the queue.  Once the player(s) come off the court then place your paddles in the 
queue.
Sportsmanship and Code of Conduct

Be courteous and respectful to fellow players and City staff.

Give the benefit of the doubt in making line calls.  When in doubt, call the ball in.

Players are to comply with all posted rules for court usage and next up queue.
Safety Guidelines

If a ball strays on your court, stop play due to “ball on”. Make eye contact with the correct 
person and return the ball by rolling it or tossing it without disrupting play on other courts.

If your ball enters another court, do not chase after your ball. Immediately call out “ball on” to 
the impacted players. Signal them to return your ball to you.

Do not cross behind any court while a rally is in play. Cross only when the rally ends.
San Mateo Parks & Recreation 
Athletics Division – During Business Hours 
 650-522-7430
www.cityofsanmateo.org
8 of 31

--- page 9 ---
9 of 31

--- page 10 ---
10 of 31

--- page 11 ---
11 of 31

--- page 12 ---
12 of 31

--- page 13 ---
13 of 31

--- page 14 ---
14 of 31

--- page 15 ---
15 of 31

--- page 16 ---
16 of 31

--- page 17 ---
17 of 31

--- page 18 ---
First, the nets are cheap. They blow over easily in the wind and already have parts that are
damaged/broken. Invest in better nets if you're going to do that.

Second, as | mentioned above, no one actually puts the nets away, which is annoying.

Third, part of the joy of pickleball, what's made it such a fast-rising sport, is how friendly it is and how
open pickleball play lets us build community. This is achieved through the "next up" system, where
players place their paddles on a rack to indicate who is "next up" for an open court. This allows solo
players to show up and jump into any game, rather than having to bring 3 other friends along. At Central
Park, this system doesn't exist. As such, groups of four tend to occupy courts...for a really long time,
despite people waiting. And it doesn't encourage singletons to roll up and hop into a game. Please see
Washington Park in Burlingame or Red Morton Park in RWC as examples, where they have a very lively
pickleball scene and regulars who have gotten to know each other.

B) Last comment on racket sports in San Mateo: both pickleball and tennis are terrific, social sports that
are pretty easily accessible to people of all ages. San Mateo is so great in what it offers our senior
citizens, and | see many of them playing both of these sports. As we continue to develop the housing
infrastructure we need, | hope San Mateo will seriously prioritize implementing requirements for
developers to build in vital green and court spaces as part of their development of buildings. Otherwise,
we could be creating a city where everyone can live here, but no one's going to enjoy it because of the
limited public parks and courts where they can build community, get to know neighbors, exercise and get
fit, and just enjoy the California outdoors.

Thanks for your time and consideration,
LiAnn Yim

fe} =] Linn Yim
Assistant Director of Communications / Journalism Teacher

___

nuevaschool.org

Hillsborough Campus San Mateo Campus
Grades PreK-8 Grades 9-12

6565 Skyline Boulevard 131 East 28th Avenue
Hillsborough, CA 94010 San Mateo, CA 94403

18 of 31


--- page 19 ---
19 of 31

--- page 20 ---
20 of 31

--- page 21 ---
21 of 31

--- page 22 ---
22 of 31

--- page 23 ---
Jaseue|\| SadiAsdas AyUNWWOZ Wie}Uy NOILVSua943a ec |
sejsnoq alueyudays

WWeISOJd

JO|Id |IEqapja!d
AIEd PAOJSIJIY



--- page 24 ---
OALVN NVS AOALID

Synod
SIUUB} YICd PAOJSasag JO aSN au}
UO 3NdU! PaplAOJd sjuapisas GGG .

€COC AOQWSAON
- |JeqayoId Ul JS94a}UI SUIMOIS
pue synod Jo Buldejinsas JO}

paau ay} Aq paydwoud AsAins aul

QNNOYD)DOVE


--- page 25 ---
0a}e|\| UES APIS}NO Wo} ae
BET Wed psojsaiag JO ajitu Buo UlyUM al] % Gp

oe skepuns uo
| a %9Q ‘sAepinjes U0 OF ZF :spua9aaM UO aesn ead

sjuuay soluns Aejd Ajisewtid

AE

siuuay Aejd Ajlseuuiid

MLE
eqay dq Aejd Ajlseuwuiid

%09

SONIGNIA AJAYNS ALINAINIAIOD



--- page 26 ---
J|eqa;o1Id pue siuua} UdamMjeaq
agesn nod ssasse 0} AWUNOddOC e

SJaquiaw AyiuUNWLWOS suOWe
[JEqa| Id sOJ BDUBIAJOId BUOIIS e @

WIVeSOdd LOlld TMVEsDIOId dYOd TWNOILVY


--- page 27 ---
OALVN NVS AOALID

suoIsi9ap a4nynj
aping 0} yIeGpaa 4 e

SUJUOLU B—9 JO}
UO!}EINP LULIZOIC }O|Id e

pasinbad SuoleAJasal
ou ‘Aejd ul-dolg e

SUNOD |JEQa}IId ANOJ} JOJ
POUl| NOD SIUUD} BUC e

-

eae se : a \ f ae = BSE. z aa
JUNLINALS WNVAYDOdd LOlld TIVEADIIId

Ts


--- page 28 ---
dO ALID

Aejd

JIe} JO} paziseudwa ayanbiza pue Ajajes e
Sauljapina

Uo!}e}01 JaAejd pue Sajni UUM adeuUsIs e

AAJIQIxX9]} 9JOWOI 0} ASN UI-dOJq e

ADOVSN LYNOD


--- page 29 ---
Ayajes

pue diusuewsyods uo siseudwd e
yUdWaseuew

ananb JO} yde1 ajpped Jo asp e
JlWJad

AjID JNOYUM SUOSSA] 9}CALIC ON e
S1UIOd TT OJ

SOWES /UO!I}C}OI JJO INO} ‘UO INOJ e

LINGNOD 40 400) GNV Sd1INg


--- page 30 ---
VS JOALID

3 ee
>

| eR
th

oe

SU}UOWW
Q—9 JAY SBUIPUIJ MAINT [JIM JJeIS e

.

yoeqpaay Ayiunuiwos
UO paseg UO!}eN|eAaS WeISO1d e

WVdSOdd LOlld JO NOILVNTIVAS


--- page 31 ---
310°O9}EWUeSJOAPIG®|Jeqoa|yxIId :!ewWy

o1jqnd au} 0}
1NO BUljJOI DIOJaq YIeGpda} SuNjaas Jye}S

SuIPUddap JaY}EIM ‘UO!}e]/e}SU! JIU
pue SUIdii}s WNOD Jaye UISaq 0} WeIBOId

49vdd3ss / Sd3LlS LXIN

